madam president, i would like to draw attention to an unacceptable situation for romania, which is treated as a second-rate country. in 2007, we joined the european union in recognition of the efforts and progress made in almost every field. however, entry into the schengen area was postponed in order to meet special technical security conditions. today, romania's borders meet all the technical conditions assumed, which is recognized by all those responsible for the area, while being a provider of security and stability, both for the region and for the entire union. however, we are being unjustifiably denied access to the schengen area on pretexts that are unacceptable for a europe that wants to be respectable. this creates unfair competition between romanian and foreign companies, seriously affecting the movement of goods and the lives of romanian citizens. therefore, we must say it loud and clear: romania must be treated equally with the other member states of the european union, it must enjoy all the full rights, and joining the schengen area is not only a right of romania, but also an obligation of the european union!
madam president, the cowardly terrorist attack on the charlie hebdo offices and the events of the following hours, which left 17 dead, have grieved france and shocked the world. yesterday's solidarity march in paris, with over one and a half million participants, showed that french citizens and european citizens are not intimidated by terror and are united for freedom of the press, tolerance, individual freedoms, peace and good coexistence. we must be firm and united in the face of extremism, terrorism, religious intolerance, make every effort to strengthen the institutions that fight terrorism and build common strategies as effective as possible to remove the root causes of these events. all our sympathy and support to the families, the editorial staff and all french citizens affected by these tragic events. this is charlie!
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure. you have underlined very well. you said that you found that the european commission had lowered certain demands, you had only dealt with the environment - personnel, i think, and other demands that we as parliament had supported. are you prepared to support a resolution of our group to improve the commission's programme?
in writing. – the italian presidency conducted its work during a period still affected by the ongoing economic crisis and its bad social effects. last year there were european parliament elections, when eu citizens proved to be united in their demand for a better europe. the italian presidency, taking into account the demands of european citizens, has successfully promoted an agenda for change. this agenda is focused on the need for increased growth and greater prospects for employment. it pushes for a public investment programme that can give an alternative to the unsuccessful politics of the troika and demonstrate how eu institutions can be closer to citizens. let me thank the italian presidency for its outstanding activity, its accomplishments in achieving more flexibility, dealing with the challenges of immigration and strengthening a common foreign policy. i am especially thankful for the efforts that have been made for the accession of romania (and bulgaria) to the schengen area, which is of the utmost importance in order to show that we, europeans, support dialogue, inclusion and solidarity both inside and outside the borders of europe, especially after the abominable terrorist attacks in paris.
the next item is the recommendation for second reading from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2001/18/ec as regards the possibility for the member states to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified organisms (gmos) in their territory (10972/3/2014 – c8-0145/2014 – 2010/0208(cod)) (rapporteur: frédérique ries) (a8-0038/2014).
madam president, i think we are faced with something that is really unclear: we have to choose between a worse situation and a situation that is less bad. i will oppose in my country, in the country where i come from, the cultivation of gmos. my problem is: can i defend the citizens of my country as long as the rapporteur himself has told us that the improvement is only about banning or restricting cultivation, and not about transport and import? i think we have to think about a principle, and that is that economic development should not compromise on the environment and health. i think we must take it upon ourselves, this parliament, to improve what we are now going to approve, because we started from a worse situation. i do not think that this is a favourable situation and i do not think that we can defend the citizens - i am on the committee on the internal market and consumer protection - and i think that free movement will lead to the compromise of conventional agriculture and that different prices will make small farmers disappear from the market.
member of the commission. - madam president, honourable members, i thank you for this useful debate and different opinions. i really hope that the majority of you will vote in favour of this legislative proposal. as i said previously, if you vote in favour you, will provide member states with legally-sound tools to decide on gmo cultivation on their territory starting in spring 2015. i look forward to your positive vote.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 162)
in writing. i am in favour of unlocking the european decision-making process on the authorisation of gmos at european level. the legislative proposal is intended to respond to the request of the member states of the european union to be able to restrict or prohibit, as appropriate, the cultivation of a gmo crop and does not change the european authorisation system. the fact that member states that will grow gmos will be obliged to take measures to avoid cross-border contamination must also be considered as respecting the decision of other states that decide differently. the positive or negative effects of a gmo crop remain for the assessment of scientific operators. in romania, universities and research institutions need to become more involved in this area, to collaborate more with their european counterparts and to carefully analyse the studies carried out by efsa, in order to provide the necessary decision-making basis for the policy actors. in this context, i am convinced that only thorough research can provide adequate protection of the environment and the health of european citizens. we need more public debate by scientific researchers together with academia, the op, civil society and government institutions to clarify the effects of gmo crops.
in writing. i welcome this regulation which confirms the right of member states to prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified organisms on their territory. many european citizens are concerned about the as yet unknown environmental effects of gmos. but until now, member states that wanted to ban these crops faced legislative uncertainty and feared legal sanctions. this regulation will change the situation, because it provides a basis for the ban of gmos at the level of each state. in addition, it will also ensure improved safety assessments for gmos, including mandatory buffer zones to prevent contamination of crops in border regions. these are really important and positive steps. but there is also a significant risk that we must take into account. the commission has also been active in the field of the environment, and has recently launched a new initiative to promote the use of renewable energy sources. why would you do that? because those member states which have so far helped to block such authorisations may decide to drop their resistance at community level, since they can exercise their right to ban gmo crops at national level. it's not the ideal scenario, but it's an improvement on the current situation.
in writing. genetically modified organisms (gmos) are a danger to the environment and human health. it seems to me fair that member states should be able to restrict and even prohibit the cultivation of gmos on their territory. it would also seem fair to me to implement a financial liability mechanism for compensation in case of accidents/contamination of organic crops. in this respect, i regret that the necessary support for the implementation of such measures has not been given at the level of the european parliament. on the other hand, this report envisages the introduction of border co-existence measures against crop contamination - measures that benefit member states and, by implication, farmers, with a view to organic agri-food products. it does not seem logical to me that biotech companies should be involved, or rather play such a strong role, in the authorisation phase of the cultivation of genetically modified products. there should be no attempt to equate governments/member states with biotech companies. it is nevertheless positive that the negotiations have succeeded in reducing the role of these companies in the first phase of the authorisation of gmo cultivation. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her report and hope that we will have the support of our colleagues for the compromise package we have achieved.
in writing. i voted in favour of this recommendation because the agreement strengthens cooperation between the european union and the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe with a view to establishing a sustainable fisheries policy and the rational exploitation of fisheries resources, in the interests of both parties. the agreement also provides for the possibility for european union vessels to fish in são toméan waters in accordance with available scientific advice and the recommendations of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas. i believe that the european union countries will benefit from this agreement and that the effects will be positive and long-lasting.
in writing. i voted in favour of this project as the cooperation between the european union and the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe is long-standing. this project is useful for the fishing industry, but we must nevertheless ensure that the negative results of previous collaborations will not be repeated in the future.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because i consider that this agreement is nothing but a continuation of the protocol already concluded by the two parties in 2013 for a certain period and which has now expired. at present, vessels flying the flag of seychelles may fish in mayotte waters only on the basis of an agreement between the prefect of mayotte and vessels flying the flag of seychelles. the agreement will therefore allow seychelles vessels to continue to have access to mayotte's waters and to marine biological resources under the jurisdiction of the european union.
in writing. i voted in favour of this agreement because it is mutually beneficial, favours the economic development of mayotte and seychelles and complies with the rules of the common fisheries policy and the iotc rules on conservation of resources.
in writing. on 23 october 2006, the council authorised the commission, on behalf of the european community and its member states, to negotiate with tunisia a protocol amending the agreements concluded between the european community and third countries, and in particular the euro-mediterranean association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and tunisia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the new member states, namely romania and bulgaria, to the eu. the treaty concerning the accession of bulgaria and romania to the european union entered into force on 1 january 2007, and the protocol must now take account of the accession of those two states to the eu. i voted in favour of this recommendation primarily because their country of origin is covered by this protocol and the fulfilment of all aspects of the country's full integration is an objective for both romania and the european union.
in writing. i voted in favour of this protocol as romania supports the existing cooperation under the euro-mediterranean agreement between the european commission and tunisia. tunisia is a country in the process of democratization and the experience of romania can be used by the european union in supporting the democratic transition in this country.
in writing. the amendment of directive 2001/18 is intended to increase the degree of decision-making of the member states on the cultivation of genetically modified organisms on their territory. more flexibility is needed in this respect, taking into account national or regional characteristics regarding the use of agricultural land. at the same time, member states should be able to assess the risks and impact of gmos on citizens, the environment and animal health. i voted in favour of amending the directive because i believe that the member states are in a position to take responsibility for their authorisation and cultivation. impartial studies are also needed to strengthen scientific knowledge on genetically modified organisms. their long-term environmental impact is less well known, so i believe that the development of impact studies and the information derived from them should be made available to consumers. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of genetically modified organisms (gmos) in food and feed. we need very clear boundaries for the areas to be used for gmo cultivation. the authorisation of these areas must take into account the adjacent agricultural crops in order to avoid contamination.
in writing. the new legislation, adopted today at second reading after being blocked in the council for four years, will allow member states to restrict or completely ban crops containing genetically modified organisms (gmos) on their territory, even if they are allowed at eu level. i support this agreement because it will provide more flexibility for member states who want to restrict the cultivation of gmos on their territory for reasons of environmental protection, as well as urban or national planning, socioeconomic impact or agricultural policy objectives.
in writing. this is a highly sensitive and controversial subject, which has been in the political and legislative debate since the beginning of the barroso ii commission. in the context of a permanent deadlock at council level, it is ultimately a common sense solution to give member states the opportunity to decide whether or not to accept gmo crops. it will be important that the rules for coexistence of gmo crops with other 'normal' crops are sound, to prevent 'infestation' of classic crops with genetics from genetically modified ones. the decision does not change the rules of international trade in any way: genetically modified soybeans, for example, can be imported into the eu as before. the only change is that the member states, not brussels, either the council or the commission, will have the hardest say in the decision to approve the cultivation, after the eu's specialised agency decides that, scientifically speaking, the crops are ok from the point of view of consumer health, other plants, etc.
in writing. i voted in favour of this draft legislation which gives member states the possibility to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of gmos on their territory. the draft legislation aims to complement the existing regulatory framework on gmos to allow member states to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of gmos on their territory. the proposed measures concern only the cultivation of gmos and the scientifically based eu-wide gmo authorisation system remains unchanged. the legislative proposal responds to the member states' request for more freedom in the application of a national gmo cultivation policy, both to member states interested in restricting and to those interested in cultivating gmos at national level.
in writing. i consider this a useful step in unblocking the european decision-making process in the discussions of recent years on the authorisation process for gmos at european level, given that the legislative proposal is only about responding to the request from the member states of the european union to be able to restrict or prohibit, as appropriate, the cultivation of a gmo crop and does not change the european authorisation system in any way. they argue that romania should be able to decide independently of other countries whether it wants to restrict or ban a gmo crop. the fact that member states that will grow gmos will be obliged to take measures to avoid cross-border contamination must also be considered as respecting the decision of other states that decide differently.
in writing. i welcome the decision of the european parliament and of the council to amend regulation (eu) no 1343/2011 of the european parliament and of the council of 13 december 2011 on certain provisions relating to fishing in the gfcm (general fisheries commission for the mediterranean) agreement area. i consider that there is a need to update the existing provisions by including the measures contained in the cgpm recommendations. these technical sustainable exploitation measures based on the gfcm recommendations confirm the gfcm's main objective of maintaining a good ecological status of the mediterranean sea basin and are in line with the new common fisheries policy, which aims mainly to lay the foundations for economically, socially and environmentally sustainable fisheries. the proposal is important because it represents an improvement on existing fisheries provisions at eu level. in recent years, the commission has played an important role in encouraging the cgpm to take initiatives that allow for the establishment of an effective management framework, and this needs to be sustained.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report as the proposal aims at transposing into union law several measures adopted by the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) at its annual sessions in 2011, 2012 and 2013. the gfcm is a regional fisheries management organisation established under article xiv of the fao constitution. the eu and 10 member states (bulgaria, croatia, cyprus, france, greece, italy, malta, slovenia, spain and romania) are contracting parties to the gfcm agreement. to the extent that the content of the gfcm recommendations is not or only partially reflected in existing union legislation, the transposition of the relevant provisions of the gfcm is necessary to ensure that it is applied uniformly and effectively throughout the european union.
mr president, first of all i welcome the creation of the european fund for strategic investments. the mobilisation of €315 billion for investment over the next two years is a welcome development, which could boost investment if we ensure that the funds are used correctly. i would point out here the lack of clarity on the strategy for the use of these funds. the european council conclusions talk a lot about the economy, but too little about people. there is talk of the european single market, fiscal consolidation, integrated capital markets, the transatlantic partnership, but there is no mention of citizens, social policies, fairness in the distribution of funds, but above all of who we are helping with these funds. i wonder if we want to save the banks at the expense of the citizens, if we want to save risk capital at the expense of national or local budgets? i am afraid that by creating these alternative funds to the european budget we are moving away from the principles and values of european solidarity and that the aim is to reduce cohesion funds in the future. i will fight, as a social democrat mep and romanian, for a homogeneously developed europe with one speed; i hope that the european council also wants this.
in writing. the investment programme launched by the european commission at the end of 2014 is an important pillar of the juncker strategy for the economic recovery of the european union. the success of this investment programme depends, however, on the response of the capital markets to the mobilization of financial resources for the projects to be carried out. but capital markets will not give positive signals until there is a firm commitment from the eu member states to the success of this investment programme. it is already mid-january 2015 and the reactions of the member states are still weak. i believe that the president of the european council has a duty to keep this investment programme on the agenda of european leaders and to work for the member states to commit themselves swiftly to its implementation.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in libya. as such, i am pleased, wishing the high representative a happy new year, to give her the floor to make the introduction to this subject (2014/3018 (rsp)).
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, let me say that if time is precious, as mr bernardino said recently: time is running out for libya and for us, it is all the more important that we use the time we have at our disposal to prevent the complete dissolution of the libyan state. i don't want to talk about the mistakes that several of the european union states have made in libya and with respect to libya in recent years. but we are facing a situation so serious and so tense that the authorities of this state are not functioning or are not functioning at all. we're close to the typical situation of a failing state. on the other hand, we have a situation where the supreme court has decided to delegitimize the parliament and the government, which creates a huge complication. the european union must act firmly and unitedly in this case, and the initiatives of individual states must be avoided because we simply do not have time to fix what we might damage. in this regard, i believe that: (1) there must be an immediate cessation of fighting between militias operating in libya both in their own name and on behalf of actors outside libya; (2) it is essential to prevent the libyan conflict from developing into a conflict with wide regional implications that could affect an already fragile situation; 3) to prevent the possibility of libya becoming a new base of operations for the islamic state, knowing that elements of the islamic state are already implanted in libya. in this regard, i believe that the european union must fully support the efforts of the un special envoy and secretary-general for a positive solution and the european union must cooperate massively and consistently with him. i welcome the statement by the high representative, mrs mogherini, and at the same time i call on the european commission to work closely with egypt, tunisia, algeria and morocco to stabilise the situation in libya at regional level.
mr president, it is, as other speakers have said, almost four years since the libyan uprising against the gaddafi regime began and the situation in that country is very bad today. there are many analyses that warn of the risk of libya being a "failed state". it's very clear that on the one hand, the polarization of society, on the other hand, the escalation of violence has led to civil war -- that's, i think, the best way to describe the situation in libya, and it's happening less than 500 kilometers from the borders of europe. as we know, in addition to the legitimate authorities in tobruk, we have self-proclaimed authorities in tripoli and misrata culmina!, places that once symbolized the resistance against gaddafi. on the other hand, we have rival claims for control of the central bank, the national oil company and so on, and hence situations that are completely and completely absurd - a few days ago we saw this in the case of maltese visa applicants - or situations that are truly tragic - 10 days ago, more precisely on 4 january, a greek oil tanker was attacked in derna port and a greek and a romanian also lost their lives. this is what's happening in libya: absurd and tragic in a civil war.
mr president, the first thing that we have to bear in mind, if we want to deal effectively with the critical situation of libya, is that our priority must be to protect civilians whose lives are being threatened and whose access to food and water has been limited since the start of the civil war. i therefore fully agree with the statement that the solution must be political and not military, based on dialogue between all parties, carried out throughout the mediation of the united nations, and with more involvement of the european union, as the situation in libya is influencing europe’s security. we europeans must step up our efforts to help stabilise the region. we must underline the need to implement a ceasefire and secure the withdrawal of forces. we must push for the establishment of a transitional government that is inclusive of all factions and tribes, in order to prevent the spread of terrorism and to weaken and disarm local armed groups. the situation in libya continues to deteriorate. violence is escalating in the territories not under government control. restoring stability in libya will not be possible without broad-based political reconciliation. this must be our goal.
mr president, the situation in libya has been discussed for a very long time, but unfortunately we have seen too little concrete action. libya is a country with enormous potential, torn apart by an internal conflict that affects not just libyans, but the rest of the world, sometimes indirectly, sometimes, as recently happened, directly. a few days ago, a romanian and a greek sailor were killed in libya after a missile fired by a libyan army fighter jet exploded aboard the ship they were on. the libyan military justified the attack by saying the ship had gone too close to a port held by separatist insurgents. so we see how tense the situation is. the romanian sailor killed in galați was 22 years old and on his first voyage and certainly hoped that europe and his country would provide him with protection wherever he might be. i take this opportunity to convey my sincere condolences to the family and to ask you, the decision-makers, to take concrete action in memory of these victims and the thousands of others who have lost their lives in libya. we need concrete action by the european union and to call on the united nations security council and also on international peacekeeping forces to resolve the situation in libya.
motions for resolutions to be tabled pursuant to rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure shall be announced at a later date. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
madam president, the internal security of the european union is threatened by organised crime, corruption, money laundering and terrorism and we know well that terrorism is in many cases financed by organised crime networks. billions of euros are lost every year because of these crimes and because the dirty money is out there, unconfiscated, and producing new networks of organised crime, money laundering and corruption. that's why confiscation is an essential thing, an essential weapon in the fight against this type of crime. i want to bring the confiscation directive back into the discussion and stress that the implementation of this directive, extended confiscation and third party confiscation in each member state is essential and must be carried out and applied exactly and precisely for this and for cooperation between member states. i also ask the commission again to produce the study it undertook when we concluded the confiscation directive on the benefits of confiscation produced by judicial proceedings, but not following a criminal conviction, but by confiscation in civil proceedings, which, for example, is a practice in the united kingdom and which is very, very effective. if we don't get the money, again, we're doing research for nothing. and the last thing: the european public prosecutor is very important.
madam president, corruption and organised crime have no borders, no political colour, no nationality, they are based only on the weakness of some people or of society. the european union must combat this scourge through concrete and clear mechanisms to support the european judicial system, those who dedicate their lives to justice, and citizens against possible abuses. i come from a country where the justice system is starting to work again, and i applaud the professionals who have made this possible. we in politics must have the will to support a strong and european judicial system because both corruption and organised crime affect the whole of society. if we want to increase trust in the european union, if we want politicians to be credible again, if we want citizens to be more involved, we must give them back their hope in justice. a european judicial system and closer cooperation between member states would show that no one can escape justice and that criminals, thieves or corrupt people have no place in the european union and that we here in the european parliament are fighting these scourges.
in writing. i welcome the decision of my colleagues to bring back this topic of major importance to the eu. as a member of the european parliament, i would like to underline an important point: organised crime is becoming a powerful global actor and here it is necessary to take into account that in the european union alone there are about 3600 active international criminal organisations, according to the socta report[1]. we are all witnessing a dangerous phenomenon: the links between criminal and terrorist groups are growing stronger and pose a serious threat to the security of european citizens. in this context, consumer security, the protection of legitimate businesses, free competition and democratic principles are seriously threatened by the expansion of these criminal organisations, corruption and money laundering. i would like to stress the importance of strengthening cooperation and increasing transparency through the exchange of information between the judicial and police authorities of the member states, europol, eurojust, olaf and enisa. the role of the judiciary in combating organised crime, including cybercrime, should be strengthened.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure. it is true that the deindustrialisation of europe has led to a decline in jobs, and this is certainly a matter of concern to all of us. my question is: do you not think that trade defence rules should be adopted for the european union's single market? trade defence measures? because you cannot increase jobs in industry if you don't have a market and you don't have a market because uncontrolled products are entering the eu single market.
mr president, prime minister, the eu is confronted with many domestic challenges. during the debate this morning we have identified the priority issues and the way ahead, but today we cannot decouple domestic priorities from external challenges. the political and security landscape on the very doorstep of the union is one of crisis and outright conflict, both to the east and to the south. if the eu’s success or credibility is determined in our own neighbourhood, then today the union is called upon to make the ultimate effort for peace and prosperity on the european continent. i know that the eastern partnership summit in riga constitutes a top priority for the latvian presidency. i am glad that commission vice-president timmermans is here, because the commission is already working on the review of the european neighbourhood policy. this year we have a unique opportunity to make a fresh start. the union needs bold action within and beyond its borders. prime minister, i wish you and the latvian presidency every success in this important test.
in writing. i welcome the programme of the latvian presidency and appreciate the attention given to food safety. we are convinced that the european union needs to revise its food safety regulations. we need clear rules to prevent unpleasant situations where certain producers are wrongly accused of breaking european rules in this area. the most striking example is romania. in january 2013, producers in my country were unfairly involved in the mislabelling of horse meat products scandal. it is unfair for honest producers to suffer because of the mistakes or misconduct of dishonest commercial agents. the rules and procedures should be designed in such a way that perpetrators can be identified as quickly as possible without any collateral damage. as regards increasing the competitiveness of european agriculture and creating new jobs in this field, i believe that more attention should be paid to small farms, family farms up to 10 hectares, which constitute a large part of the agricultural area cultivated, especially in eastern europe.
in writing. i appreciate the attention the latvian presidency is paying to increasing the competitiveness of the european union by promoting investment in competitive products and services. one area that should receive more attention from the european authorities is tourism. it contributes an estimated 9% to the gdp of the european union and employs some 9,7 million people. unfortunately, in recent years european tourism has had a negative development. the market share of european tourism is estimated to be 41% globally in 2030, up from 51% in 2000. the european union needs to invest in the preservation and development of its cultural heritage and in the development of tourism infrastructure, including transport, if it is to maintain its status as a world leader in tourism. all these investments mean new jobs and will contribute to the more efficient exploitation of an inexhaustible resource: tourism. i am sure that there will be good cooperation between the intergroup on european tourism development and cultural heritage and the latvian presidency of the european union, to the benefit of all those active in the field of tourism.
madam president, i will start with a quote: ‘the problem of foreign fighters is a specific issue which needs to be duly addressed. in this respect the active collaboration between foreign and home affairs ministers should be strengthened, particularly concerning judicial and police cooperation and information-sharing. we need to ensure coherence and complementarity between the internal and external aspects of eu security policies.’ this is a quote from the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy not after, but months before, the tragic events in paris last week at the beginning of her term of office. these words were and are fully valid, but it takes time to implement them, and meanwhile the terrorists enjoy full liberty to choose their target and moment of attack, forcing us to react. unless we deprive them of the initiative by putting them on the defensive, they will continue to surprise us nastily. restraining civil liberties following such attacks would mark the victory of the attackers. one cannot trade free travel for liberty of speech. the truth is that we failed to stabilise our neighbourhood, both in the east and in the south. open, violent conflicts are raging near our borders, and one consequence is ‘commuting terrorism’: european citizens travelling to conflict areas and coming back to commit terrorist attacks. of course, immediate challenges need immediate attention, but equally we need a strategic response – one which would consolidate the eu’s internal and external security and include counter-terrorism as a primary, regular field of cooperation among ourselves and with our neighbouring partners. the responsibilities of the high representative inevitably cover the task of improving the functioning of those eu bodies under her direct command, but her real contribution will come in working with the member states, given that the common foreign and security policy (cfsp) and common security and defence policy (csdp) are within the remit of the member states. facilitating their cooperation with one another and with our common eu institutions and our partners, helping them to reach a relatively common threat assessment, and coordinating their action in various theatres will allow the high representative to make her main contribution to fulfilling her remit.
in writing. we are in the midst of an asymmetric war, in which the safety of european citizens is threatened by human bombs prepared by terrorist groups. a common danger requires a common response. the eu urgently needs a coordinated counter-terrorism strategy among its member states. the paris attacks are a blow against european security and the edifice of values that underpin democracy. in the face of this grave threat, it is imperative to tighten and adapt counter-terrorism legislation to the challenges posed by the new jihad, which is being waged by citizens of european countries, indoctrinated and trained on islamist fronts for attacks on eu territory. it is unacceptable that islamist propaganda and the free movement of suspected terrorists to and from bases in the middle east continue to endanger the lives and freedoms of european citizens. drastic measures are needed against those who choose to enlist in the ranks of terrorist organizations. the status of terrorist is incompatible with that of european citizen. i also believe that a common strategy is needed at european level to stop the spread of fanaticism and terrorist messages, especially via the internet and places of worship.
in writing. the european union is discussing a new security policy today, in the wake of the absolutely abominable terrorist attack in paris. in the european context, it is the duty of the european institutions to move to the stage of concrete action in the light of the new terrorist threats emanating from the territory of the member states themselves. we are now talking about an internal threat that requires extremely close, coherent and effective cooperation between all 28 states. with romania having the longest external eu border in eastern europe, schengen membership, postponed for political and not technical reasons, becomes crucial. security measures must be increased at the eu's external borders and the movement within these borders of individuals belonging to terrorist organisations must be even more closely monitored. romania's accession to schengen can only bring more expertise in preventing and combating terrorist activities in the eu. romania's accession to schengen thus becomes beneficial not only to romanian citizens and romanian companies, but to the entire european union. with an active conflict on the eu's eastern border, romania, the safety of all europeans would increase if this border became the schengen border.
in writing. on 3 january 2015, the deadliest attack in the history of the boko haram terrorist group took place, killing 2,000 people in nigeria, mostly women, children and elderly people who could not flee, in an attack on baga, near the border with chad. it's well known that boko haram is an extremist islamist group that believes education and books should be banned, killing over 10,000 people last year alone. nigeria's president goodluck jonathan, who has spoken out about the paris attacks, has not commented on the atrocities in his own country. even as nigeria prepares for presidential and parliamentary elections next month, i find it unimaginable that you want to maintain your image at the expense of peace and security, and the fight against terrorism is becoming virtually impossible. i believe that european states with economic interests in the area should have a constructive and effective dialogue with the nigerian authorities in order to fight terrorism and to ensure respect for the fundamental rights of citizens. it is also important that the western press has access to sources of information precisely so that these atrocities are brought to the attention of the international world to be condemned and the necessary support provided to be fought.
madam president, it is always difficult to intervene after mr korwin-mikke. i'll do it in romanian. mr president, on 16 september 2014, i ratified the association agreement with ukraine and i say that this is a historic day for this country - many colleagues share this idea. four months later, today, i firmly believe that ukraine needs us as historical days, moments. and i believe that, more than ever, a solution is needed to bring peace back to ukraine and to stabilise the country's border. in these days of intensifying confrontation in the east of the country, such an agreement could prevent the situation from worsening and destabilising ukraine and, by implication, europe even further. i therefore believe that we have a duty to contribute to the pacification of our continent, by encouraging and reading off any dialogue that can lead to an agreement. i think any format is good for going in that direction. beyond the territorial and security issues facing ukraine, i also express my hope that the kiev leadership will be determined to continue the fight against corruption. president poroshenko said last autumn that "what is paralysing ukraine is corruption" and hopes that this will not be forgotten, even if we all know that the situation in ukraine is very difficult, but i believe that the fight against corruption, the building of institutions that can produce tangible results is a priority for action. therefore, encourage ukraine to be relentless in the fight against corruption; this is a familiar and highly-experienced experience of the former communist state and i do not believe that things can be done differently.
madam president, the illegal annexation of crimea last march represents the most disturbing aspect of the entire ukrainian crisis. for the first time since world war ii, borders in europe have been modified through force. moreover, by doing this, russia got closer to nato by hundreds of kilometres, being able to strike deeply into nato territory using long-range weapon systems deployed in the peninsula. if ukrainian territorial integrity and sovereignty can be restored in the eastern part of the country, provided the russian forces withdraw, crimea remains the biggest challenge, both legally and militarily. of course, refusing international recognition of the annexation and imposing sanctions on business coming from and going to the peninsula will continue for long as it will take, but the challenge remains. it will have to be addressed politically too.
madam president, since the beginning of the russian federation's aggression in eastern ukraine, over 4 000 people have been killed and over 9 000 people have been injured. since the signing of the minsk ceasefire agreement in 2014 alone, more than 1,000 people have been injured. the same un report mentions that 600,000 people moved from ukraine and another 600,000 were forced to leave the country as refugees. today, more than 1,200 people are fleeing ukraine every day. basically, those who stay fight for medicine and food; separatists have occupied hospitals and the sick can no longer be cared for and so on. i call on and we all call on the troops of the russian federation to stop any aggression, to withdraw from the border with ukraine to make way for the osce troops along the border. let us be united, firm and strong, speak with one voice and show the russian federation that democracy has won and communism has lost!
madam president, given that we are happy to see that ukraine took a very clear road to european union values and principles and that those free and fair legislative elections validated a pro-european orientation of ukraine, the situation is still far from being stable and predictable. there are still strong tensions in the regions controlled by the separatist forces, and the security of all ukrainian citizens is far from being guaranteed. the european union has to continue to support ukrainian integrity and sovereignty. the commission’s ukraine support group should provide more substantial technical assistance and eu institutions should work harder in order to strengthen a genuine civil society, one that is independent and courageous. energy security is a major issue. it is important that, with the assistance from european institutions, the situation has somehow been solved until spring, but we need to consolidate long-term solutions which would also be beneficial for the eu strategic objective for a secure and diversified supply.
madam president, the current situation in ukraine is again alarming, dangerous and needs further humanitarian – and i insist, humanitarian – and diplomatic steps and stronger multilateral dialogue between the parties involved, and the eu has to play a very important role in this. today it is of vital importance that the minsk protocol is fully implemented, including russia as well. all threats to the lives of ukrainian citizens are to be condemned. obstacles to the work by the special monetary mission must be removed and ukraine needs to carry out the political, economic and social reforms that the nation needs. i firmly believe that ukraine needs a strong, committed europe at her side in order to maintain her independence and integrity of territory and to fulfil the ukrainian people’s desire to live in a democratic, civilised state that also respects the rights of the national ethnic minorities.
mr president, i am very pleased that 2015 has been dedicated to the issue of development, and especially about its timing. 2015 will be a year of important negotiations on how to tackle global poverty. the un climate change conference in paris next november is one of the most important of these. this is because climate change threatens to undermine decades of development and puts future development trajectories at risk. many of the main drivers behind poverty in developing countries are intertwined with climate change. increased drought, for example, leads to crop failure and food insecurity, reduces opportunities and boosts inequality around the world. when dealing with the issue of development, we should strongly promote environmental initiatives, energy efficiency, exchange of technologies and best practices, investment in public education and in disaster risk reduction and, more generally, emphasise low carbon emission development. developing countries will bear the brunt of the effects of climate change as they strive to overcome poverty and achieve economic growth. in fact, one of the top priorities of the european union development agenda is to achieve accomplishment of the cop 21 negotiations in paris.
in the context of the european year of development, i believe it is important to stress that the european union and its member states, as well as the world's largest donor, should pay greater attention to the promotion of human rights than they do at present. of course, humanitarian emergencies require rapid intervention, but we must also promote in development policy those aspects which are intended to promote the protection of human rights. i am convinced that europe must not only be at the forefront of traditional humanitarian aid, but also help these societies through the sustainable and integrated development of the developing world economy. i think it is extraordinary that this year, through the themes broken down by month, we are bringing the attention of europeans to the most pressing problems facing our world. the words education, health, migration, food security mean something completely different in less developed parts of the world than they do in our own.
in writing. – in 2015 we are launching the year of development, and major challenges lie ahead. the eu has to intervene where it is needed and where it can make a difference. eu development policy is a centrepiece of the union’s relationship with the outside world. with 50% of all global development aid, the eu is the world’s leading donor. now we need to define the post-2015 agenda. the overarching goal is the eradication of poverty. while the proportion of people living in extreme poverty has dropped, there are many who still live below the internationally defined poverty line. the new framework should provide for improved living standards, access to primary healthcare systems, free education and improvements in agriculture and, above all, for the existence of basic fundamental rights. working with developing nations and emerging economies should create a win-win situation.
in writing. the european year for development should be a moment to raise awareness of the need for the european union to get involved in solving the problems of underdevelopment around the world. eu member states have committed to the millennium development goals, but unfortunately have not kept their political or financial commitments. we are far from the financial target of 0.7% of gnp allocated to development cooperation by the member countries and still further from the development criteria by the poor countries. the eu and its member states must take advantage of the european year for development to put international development back on the public agenda. i assure you of my full support as a member of the european parliament and as a university academic specialising in this field, and i am sure that many europeans, many of them young, are eager to get involved in supporting a europe that is a leader in international assistance and cooperation.
in writing. – eradicating poverty in developing countries is an important priority for the eu. our efforts should go hand in hand with those aiming for the achievement of the sustainable development goals. i welcome the european year for development initiative and i am convinced that an integrated european approach together with the involvement with the various stakeholders will result in significant progress. instability and conflict situations are unfortunately typical for the less developed areas in africa, south america and asia and in many cases violent conflicts and illegal activities of local militias are financed from mineral extraction and trade. breaking the link between mineral extraction and conflict financing is a complex challenge. the european parliament is taking the lead in the eu action to promote responsible behaviour by companies operating in such areas. an integrated approach is entailing a trade-related eu regulation but also foreign policy action and development cooperation initiatives. as the rapporteur for the regulation setting up an eu system for supply chain due diligence self-certification of importers of 3tg originating in conflict-affected and high-risk areas i am committed to contributing to the elaboration and adoption of an efficient and balanced regulation at the core of the eu integrated approach.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. - mr president, on the situation in egypt, this is a time that is quite symbolic. if we look back exactly four years ago, egypt was on the brink of the 25 january revolution, with people taking to the streets calling for dignity, social justice and simply bread – their legitimate political and socio-economic rights. ever since, the european union has stood by egypt and its people, fully supporting these democratic demands. today, four years later, egypt is still in political transition. eighteen months after the ousting of president morsi, egypt is still in transition pending the parliamentary elections planned to start at the end of march, which will be a crucial step in concluding the constitutional roadmap. two steps have been achieved. egypt has given itself a constitution and it has elected a new president. both steps were monitored by the european union with the mission for the presidential elections in may. a delegation of the european parliament was part of it. now we would like to see the mission recommendations taken on board, particularly in view of the upcoming parliamentary elections. difficulties, however, remain, and i have decided not to send a fully-fledged observation mission this time but, instead, to deploy a smaller expert mission (eem). the purpose of the mission is closely to assess and report on the electoral process, including on the political environment and electoral campaign. the list of recommendations to be drawn up by this mission will facilitate constructive engagement with the authorities on much-needed reform efforts. but democracy goes beyond elections, and we all know that very well here. a parliament is key to having a legitimate legislator in place to tackle the many tasks of urgent legislative reform – including the law on ngos and the controversial protest law – and to ensure compliance with the new constitution, which will need to be implemented. the parliamentary elections are also an important step towards providing a broad base for political engagement that can ensure fundamental rights and freedoms, security and economic reform accepted by the whole of society. open political engagement and discussion will reduce the risk of radicalisation. another challenge is clearly that of the deteriorating security situation spreading beyond the sinai. we have always affirmed that the european union stands by egypt in fighting terrorism. there is no place for violence. the special coordinator for counterterrorism travelled to egypt in december 2014, and we are looking now into possibilities of holding a dialogue on counterterrorism and security. let me add that this is not only in egypt’s interest but also in our own european union interest. seeing the fragility, to say the least, of the situation in the whole region, we welcome and have welcomed egypt’s re-emergence as an important regional player. in particular, the role that the country played over the summer in reaching a ceasefire in gaza, facilitating the israeli-palestinian talks, and then more recently with the conference for reconstruction in gaza that was held in cairo in the autumn, was very important. furthermore, egypt is re-emerging as an important foreign policy player in the league of arab states, in the african union and in sub-saharan africa, in particular over the nile water issues with ethiopia and in national dialogue efforts with sudan. while still in political transition and facing security threats, egypt also urgently needs to tackle an economic situation that is particularly difficult. steps taken by the new authorities go in the right direction, with subsidy cuts and large-scale infrastructure projects such as the new lane in the suez canal. the eu will continue to support egypt in addressing its socio-economic reforms. we will participate in the international investment conference planned for march. we will continue to focus our support in the socio-economic field, to help improve living conditions for the most vulnerable among egypt’s population. these challenges and the ongoing political transition cannot allow any compromise on human rights. egypt needs to address its human rights situation, including the lack of political space for dissenting opinion and shrinking space for freedoms of assembly and expression. too many of the issues that you mentioned in your resolution on freedom of expression and assembly in egypt last july have not yet been addressed. only last december we saw another decision by a court to pass preliminary death sentences on 188 defendants. we keep calling on the judicial authorities to respect due process and ensure fair trial. a truly professional and independent judiciary is a key element for functioning and trusted state institutions. another concern – a deep concern, as we have said in statements – is the lack of accountability and the continued crackdown not only on the muslim brotherhood and affiliates but also on political opponents and liberal activists, illustrated by often disproportionate sentencing. there are too many civilians tried by military courts, and too often, laws such as the new draft anti-terrorism law and the existing ngo law, which does not comply with the new constitution, give too ample a degree of discretion to the executive. we keep addressing these issues when we meet with our egyptian counterparts. in particular, i have to thank the special representative for human rights, stavros lambrinidis, a former colleague of some of you, who repeatedly raised these issues with the egyptian authorities on the occasion of both of his visits to egypt during 2014. the question for the eu is not whether we should support egypt – there is no other option but to stay engaged with egypt – but how best to support its transition. therefore egypt, like all our southern and eastern partners, will be closely involved in the review of the european neighbourhood policy (enp). the outdated action plan with egypt will need to be re-negotiated, taking into account the enp review and to better reflect the reality on the ground. we will monitor the parliamentary elections with our experts, as i said, and we will monitor the further implementation of the constitution and, with a view to the upcoming parliamentary elections, the freedom of the press and media. but we will also help egypt with its economic reform efforts and its fight against security threats. we will work with egypt too in the context of our own efforts and our own fight against our own security threats.
on behalf of the epp group. thank you, mr president! thank you, madam high representative, for your intervention. i would like to make a few clarifications first of all on the position of the epp group on the joint resolution that we negotiated with the other political groups, and i would like to say that we have a very detailed, very long text - this is because we wanted to include in this text everything that has happened since july 2014, when we last adopted a resolution on egypt. this makes the text difficult to follow; sometimes the figures are not very reliable, because i have quoted various sources and that is why i would like to place the resolution in a context which is described by several essential facts. and first of all, i would call our relationship with this country in the fight against terrorism -- egypt is a key partner and i don't think we can overlook that fact, as egypt plays a very important geopolitical role in the middle east peace process. the second important coordinate is, of course, the transition to democracy, which we want, which we support in egypt, the respect for the rule of law, the respect for human rights - all of these must become a reality because that is what the egyptian people want. thirdly, i think we need to consider the implementation of the constitution that was adopted, which came into force almost a year ago. it is a better constitution than the previous one, but it is essential that it becomes a fact from the perspective of fundamental rights, first of all, all the more so as we have these elections that mrs mogherini also mentioned. i agree with what has been said about the need to implement the recommendations made by the last observation mission, led by our colleague mario david. finally, i would like to address the issue of new legislative bills that could have a negative impact on ngos, i know it's a controversial issue in egypt, but i want to appeal to the egyptian authorities to approach these bills under the banner of openness and not the banner of repression.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, distinguished colleagues, this is a day to remember. the high representative staying in this house for more than seven hours is a gesture of respect for parliament, who welcome and respect this gesture. now i will switch to romanian. mulțumesc, domnule președinte! egiptul este o țară-cheie, o țară extrem de importantă pentru uniunea europeană - acest lucru s-a mai spus - și trebuie să subliniem contribuția sa la efortul de încetare a focului în urma conflictului din gaza. trebuie să subliniem contribuția egiptului la lupta împotriva daesh și a amenințărilor regionale și globale de această natură. din această perspectivă, parlamentul european este atât de interesat de evoluția procesului de modernizare și democratizare a țării prietene și de aceea trebuie să ajutăm egiptul să progreseze. suntem, desigur, îngrijorați de situația actuală în privința respectării drepturilor omului și a libertăților fundamentale. înțelegem pe deplin situația complexă creată după revoluție, ca și gravitatea amenințării teroriste cu care se confruntă egiptul. o înțelegem acum chiar mai mult după recentele atacuri de la paris. salutăm apelul președintelui sisi pentru modernizarea gândirii islamice, considerăm că aceasta este o încercare curajoasă, care trebuie sprijinită și susținută de către toți cei care vor o lume mai calmă, o lume mai puțin amenințată de terorism. alegerile parlamentare așteptate de mult timp sunt esențiale pentru a demara procesul de democratizare. ele trebuie să asigure accesul liber, trebuie să se desfășoare corect și trebuie să fie incluzive, iar, odată desfășurate alegerile, parlamentul european trebuie să se angajeze într-o cooperare susținută cu parlamentul egiptean pentru a asigura evoluțiile pe care ni le dorim cu toții.
mr. president, in the last year in egypt, over 16,000 people were arrested, including those who took to the streets to protest. many were sentenced to death. we see mass sentencing increasingly common, journalists are arrested, as we all know, and large parts of the population are starving and have no medical treatment whatsoever when they need it. it is unacceptable and we must stand firm against egypt! we are only helping the egyptian authorities if they respect human rights, if they stop executions and death sentences, if they release political prisoners. if egypt is an important partner for the european union, as has been said today in plenary, then yes, egypt means first and foremost the people, the people who are suffering and who today are waiting for our help.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure i agree that it is a very important institution for us, for each country and for the european union. my question is: don't you think this institution should look more closely at the situation in the member countries of the european union where budgets are being depleted because human rights cases are being lost in the country and won in the human rights court and, in fact, the money is paid from the budget and not by those who make mistakes?
madam president, i take this opportunity to raise two elements that are of great importance. the first is that of overall transparency and accessibility, if information needs to be increased and if we want to keep, or indeed restore, the reputation of our institutions. secondly, i want to suggest a greater focus, in the work of the ombudsman, on the struggle of traditional minorities in europe. specific measures should be developed to inform these communities, which account for 8% of european citizens, about the work of the ombudsman. their rights as enshrined in the eu charter and the council documents, and especially their vulnerability, should be kept in mind. i therefore call on ms o’reilly to undertake an own-initiative inquiry on the subject of persons belonging to traditional minority communities and their access to information provided by the european institutions, along the same lines as a past own-initiative inquiry that focused on people with disabilities. it would be extremely useful to verify how sensitive the commission is in its dealings with these issues.
member of the commission. - madam president, i have listened carefully to the members’ contributions and i have a number of reactions on some of the points made. first of all, this commission is strongly committed to improving transparency and accountability. we have taken measures to that effect in the first weeks of coming into office. obviously this is not reflected in the report about 2013, which is now two years ago. so, if you want to hold us accountable, also hold us accountable on our actions. i am glad to be accountable in that respect, and i would actually urge this parliament to follow the example the commission has set on transparency – for instance, on contacts with lobbyists. this is something on which parliament could follow suit, and that would be my suggestion. secondly, i note that we still need to do much to improve our situation. i would not agree with those of you who have argued that the situation in national administrations is better than at european level. there are many member states where the levels of transparency and accountability are not the same as in the commission and the other eu institutions, but still i do acknowledge that we need to improve the situation and i will work very closely with the ombudsman to that effect. i also want to point to the fact that, in relation to the transatlantic trade and investment partnership, we did exactly what the ombudsman required, and i thank her as well as mr wałęsa for acknowledging that. i also acknowledge that most complaints are about the commission, and that is because most of the legislation and decisions affecting citizens directly are indeed acts taken by the commission. so there is a correlation with the fact that we are the biggest institution and that we have the most effect on citizens: citizens will then complain. i want to try and increase, as much as i can, the level of compliance with the ombudsman’s recommendations. as pointed out before, we are at 84%, which is the highest level among the institutions. i will try to get it even higher, with the proviso that, in certain cases and for legal reasons, we may not always be able to implement the recommendations of the ombudsman. in conclusion, let me say that i am very much looking forward to working closely with ms o’reilly and her team. they are making a strong contribution to creating a more accountable europe, a more transparent europe and a europe that is closer to its citizens. thank you once again mr wałęsa for an excellent report.
ombudsman. - madam president, honourable members, i would like to thank you all very much for your contributions and the thought that you have brought to them. i take everything that you say on board. i take the compliments, obviously, but i also take the criticism because, without feedback from you, who are even closer to the people than i am, i cannot really know what their true concerns are. i see you as a very valuable resource in relation to that. there were many issues raised, and obviously i cannot deal on an individual basis with all of them, although of course you are more than welcome to come to me as individual meps and discuss any matter that you want. but there are a number of general issues that i want to discuss. a lot of you talked about the visibility of the office. i hope that i am demonstrating that this is certainly a priority for me and that, if people do not know that i am here, the service that i can provide for them is fairly redundant. i have made a very big effort to make the office more visible through a number of techniques. what is also very important – and some of you have alluded to this – is your own national ombudsmen, member state ombudsmen, the petitions committee or regional ombudsmen and the work that i can do to improve that. as you probably know, as european ombudsman, i chair the european network of ombudsmen, and just yesterday i had a strategy meeting in relation to how they can help me. equally i can also help them with their own situations. two of the things i am doing include, for the first time next year, producing an annual report on the work of the network, in which i will highlight not just my own work but also the work of the member state ombudsmen. hopefully, if they agree with this, then they too can present that alongside their annual reports to their respective parliaments. i am also just about to start for the first time a joint investigation with a number of member state ombudsmen in relation to frontex, on one particular element of their work which is bringing people back, i.e. deporting people from countries. we are going to be looking at how frontex deals with human rights issues that arise in the context of those flights. so for the first time, the european ombudsman is working with member state ombudsmen, we are pooling our resources in our respective jurisdictions in order to make an even bigger impact on that. i will be looking for more areas in which to work on that. some of you have challenged me and my office in relation to compliance, and also challenged the commission and the agencies. i set my own challenges as well. right from the start, i have said that the compliance rate of 80% + is not high enough, because in many member states, including my own – ireland – the compliance rate for the recommendations of the ombudsman is often as high as 95% or even 100%. that is a very high target, but it is one that i will strive to achieve. in relation to effectiveness, a lot of you have pointed to the fact that many of the complaints that come before me are outside of my remit. obviously most complaints that european citizens have are with their member states, but one of the functions of the office is to be as helpful as possible and to direct anybody who comes to us to where they can have their problem resolved. but this is partly why i have begun to focus very intensively on the own-initiative investigations, to see what systemic issues i can deal with which my office and the resources that i have can add greatest value to. i suppose my overall ambition for the office is simply to be useful – more useful to the citizen, more useful to parliament, more useful to the commission and so on. to do that, i need to collaborate with you. you have to support me if you find that my recommendations are rational and that you wish to support them, because without your help i cannot succeed as i might. i also need to collaborate well with the commission and with the agencies. they have to trust me, just as the citizens have to trust me. so i thank you all for your contributions. i will take them on board. i just want to make one point about the troika. many people have come to me over the last year to see what i can do to investigate the troika. the troika is not an eu body per se, even though the ecb and the eu commission are critical parts of it. what i have said to individual meps is that, if they wish to work with me and if there is a particular issue or facet of the work of the troika, as it relates to an eu institution, that they feel i could legitimately investigate, then that is something that i would be very happy to do. at the moment, as the irish members know, there is an investigation into the banking collapse and the financial crisis in ireland. they are trying to get the ecb over to explain itself to the irish people, and we will see how that evolves. thank you all very much for your contributions and your support.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on russia, in particular the case of alexey navalny.
president. - the motion to discuss the case of mr navalny comes from our group. i supported her and i'm glad we're talking about it. i am sorry to see that mrs vergiat calls mr navalny's remarks sulphurous. what mr navalny is saying in russia is that mr putin's regime is corrupt, that there are crooks and that we have to fight against the corruption of the elites. i don't think it's sulfuric or anything. i believe that in this chamber one should not insult men of courage. on the contrary, we must protect the people who have the courage to speak the truth in russia and to go against the regime. let me tell you that mr navalny's candidacy for the moscow mayor's office - which received 27% of the vote - is a victory, because you cannot win elections in russia without being the client of the regime. that is why mr navalny must be defended, especially since the kremlin's reaction is a repetition of stalinist practices. he was accused, as was the case under stalin and other bolsheviks in all communist countries, of having committed crimes. he was accused of fraud in timber deals, deals in the distribution of products of a french company, and so forth. this is pure stalinism, madame vergiat. i know you're touched every time we discuss the crimes of communism!
vpc/hr. - (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am sorry to see mr bonanno not in this chamber because i believe that it is my specific duty, as well as that of the senior members of his group, to be here to speak not only about the case of the two mares but also about very important cases in high places, but as it is my duty to do so, i believe it is also the duty of members of the european parliament to take part in such important debates. let me thank this chamber for the opportunity not only to focus, as we did yesterday, on the external or foreign policy implications of russia's behaviour but also on the internal dimension as well. on 30 december moscow courts delivered a verdict against alexei navalny and his brother oleg, giving him a suspended sentence and jailing his brother. this new court case against navalny, an opposition leader and anti-corruption activist, as you mentioned, is illustrative of the flaws which persist in the judiciary in russia. procedural irregularities were plentiful from the moment the case was built until the verdict, which was announced in the absence of most press and international observers. i reacted publicly and immediately when the verdict was announced. i stressed that judicial decisions should be free from political interference, independent and in full compliance with the rule of law. for years, through our partnership for modernisation, the european union worked on ways to professionalise and reform russia's judiciary, notably by the establishment of an appeal system. on what mr verhofstadt referred to - and i would like us to refer not to leaks from newspapers or from the media but to what we say in this official place - it is a fact that we also need to work and focus on the human rights dimension and on the rule of law dimension in our dialogue with russia. in fact, in the paper that we will discuss with the ministers on monday and again i would invite you not to refer to leaks in the media but to what we do and what we actually say in official places there is an option of a partial resumption of these forms of cooperation to promote the rule of law. this is mentioned in the paper that has been leaked and let me mention also that leaking official documents or issuing papers that are intended to contribute to a discussion of ministers is possibly not the best way of having a serious political discussion. but i think that we need to have, as we are having this morning, a serious discussion about, for example, the ways in which we could think of partially restoring options and instruments for cooperation on the rule of law and the judiciary in russia, because this obviously affects the internal situation of many people in russia and the respect for basic human rights. in recent years in too many instances, from the magnitsky case to the bolotnaya convicts, from the kosenko case to pussy riot, we have witnessed serious violations of basic human rights, which courts were unable to redress which they even rubber-stamped. we call on the russian authorities to uphold human rights. we will also extend available financial means to russian ngos which keep working in that endeavour, as this house has repeatedly asked, even this morning. russia's membership of the council of europe, which was mentioned by the last speaker, carries a number of obligations. it is our duty, as the european union, to hold russia accountable when it ignores those obligations. on tuesday i discussed with secretary-general jagland the ways in which the european union can provide more and better support for the council of europe in these efforts. all relevant instruments should be fully mobilized to respond to human rights violations. we will be looking forward to forthcoming european court of human rights rulings involving russia, notably on the case of mr navalny and, i should also say, on the case of mr magnitsky. the conviction of mr navalny; the wave of harassment against civil society, labelling as foreign agents 30 organisations such as memorial or the sakharov centre, which was mentioned; and the threats against human rights defenders dealing with chechnya are the most recent instances to which we firmly reacted, all of this happening over less than a month. human rights are core elements of our policies and our relations in all countries in the world, and we should always react firmly, as this house did today, when abuses take place, and we should take measures on this. (applause from the left)
the debate is closed. the vote will be held at the end of the debates. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on pakistan, in particular the situation following the peshawar school attack.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs. - madam president, thank you for this debate that i think helps us to focus on a couple of important points after the terrible attack by the pakistani taliban against the school in peshawar on 16 december. first of all, there is the fact that the attack was deliberately against children – boys and girls. but it was also an attack against the right to education for every boy and girl. as many of you said, not only the sakharov prize but also the nobel peace prize going to malala yousafzai was a strong reaction to that. let me say that the best news we have had, in reaction to what happened, was the re-opening of the school in peshawar this week. i think this is the strongest sign of the fact that the right to education of girls and boys cannot be stopped by such terrible attacks. the second thing that this attack reminded us of – and someone mentioned this – is the fact that the first victims of terrorists are muslims. yesterday we discussed nigeria and today we are discussing pakistan. i think part of our counter-terrorist measures is the narrative and the awareness that it is not only us we care about, but it is also about all others. pakistan has paid a high price to terrorism and extremism, with up to 50 000 people killed by terrorists since 2001. a new comprehensive national action plan has been approved. key elements include regulating madrasas, blocking financing mechanisms of terrorist organisations, and measures against religious persecution. we have set up a specific eu-pakistan political dialogue on counter-terrorism, the priorities of which are the rule of law and anti-radicalisation. the eu, through a number of different projects, already supports the pakistani government’s counter-terrorism activities aimed at reducing the threat from militant groups operating in the territory. this includes support for capacity-building of law enforcement, community policing, promoting dialogue between different communities and strengthening resilience to violence. but, as many of you have said today, counter-terrorism alone does not stand. we have to start from the root causes and from prevention. in 2008 pakistan started its transition from military rule to democracy. in 2013 the country experienced its first ever handing-over of power from one democratically-elected government to another. the eu has consistently supported the democratisation process. our election observation missions were in pakistan in 2008 and 2013. the transition to civilian democracy led to closer eu cooperation with pakistan in different fields and to a more structured partnership, including political dialogue on sensitive and complicated issues like human rights and counter-terrorism. let me stress this, because it is also a coherent part of our work on security, disarmament and non-proliferation, especially in a region crucial for peace and security. the key priorities in our human rights engagement and dialogue with pakistan – and let me remind you that the eu special representative for human rights, stavros lambrinidis, made his first ever visit to pakistan this year – include freedom of religion and belief, women’s rights, the death penalty and the rule of law and access to justice. the issue of religious minorities remains a central aspect of our human rights dialogue. freedom of religion and expression are constitutional rights in pakistan, but discrimination remains, severely affecting, for instance, shias and ahmadis, but also christians and other minorities. the use of the blasphemy law has become a reason for particular concern. the overwhelming majority of cases are filed against muslims, but christians are also targeted – such as in the case of asia bibi, which i know this parliament has been following particularly closely. let me say that i am following it closely with you. pakistan needs to strengthen civilian courts and institutions. the judicial system has to be adequately resourced, trained and equipped, in order to deal effectively with terrorism. harsher punishments or the temporary expansion of the jurisdiction of military courts do not address a weak judicial system. developing an effective, efficient, professional, independent and credible civilian legal system remains a key priority for pakistan, and the eu is ready to support and train police, prosecutors, defence lawyers and judges. after peshawar – as some of you mentioned – pakistan also lifted the de facto moratorium on executions that had been in place since 2008. let me conclude by saying that the european union remains – and will remain – opposed to the death penalty in all circumstances. the death penalty is not an effective tool in the fight against terrorism, and i sincerely hope that the moratorium will be re-established.
the debate is closed. the vote will be held at the end of the debates. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on kyrgyzstan: homosexual propaganda bill.
there is no catch-the-eye today because we are delayed.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs. - madam president, yes, i have been told that this is the first time a high representative has taken part in the urgency debates on human rights, but that is exactly because i believe that human rights are a crucial part of our foreign policy. i was told that urgency debates on human rights are normally not attended by the high representative. i think it is my duty and also in my interest to be here, as human rights are a crucial part of foreign policy. i said that and i meant that. (applause) let me also say that we will have to work on the coherence of our internal policies on human rights, because today we are debating something extremely important concerning countries that are not our own member states, and in our internal work on human rights, and in particular on lgbti, we have to be coherent internally also. the parliament of the kyrgyz republic is working on legislation that would discriminate against the lgbti community, and we regret that the draft law has been approved at the first of the three readings necessary for final adoption. this draft legislation, if adopted, would restrict freedom of expression and association. the title of the law – ‘on the promotion of a positive attitude towards non-traditional sexual relations’ – is totally misleading. in reality, it is designed to undermine efforts by human rights ngos, including lgbti organisations, to advocate equal treatment for lgbti people. since this legislative initiative was initially proposed in march last year, the european union has raised its concern about the draft law and insisted on the principle of non-discrimination, including in the human rights dialogue in april 2014, and in subsequent high-level discussions with the parliament and government of the kyrgyz republic. the eu has reminded the kyrgyz authorities of the guarantees for freedom of expression and non-discrimination in the kyrgyz constitution, as was mentioned before, and of the kyrgyz republic’s international commitments. a joint letter from the heads of missions and eu ambassadors was sent to the speaker of the kyrgyz parliament in june, and during the cooperation council meeting last november the point was raised. during the cooperation council meeting, the kyrgyz foreign minister stressed that the presentation of the draft laws by members of parliament was a democratic right and asserted that the government was not favourable to these draft laws. the eu has also recalled that the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe, when it granted partner for democracy status to the kyrgyz parliament earlier this year, expressly stated that this should not be followed up. in line with the human rights guidelines of the european union to promote and protect the enjoyment of all human rights by lgbti persons, i will personally continue to use all possible means to warn against the risks of adopting the draft resolution and i will coordinate my work with that of vice-president timmermans to make sure that we adopt coherent measures internally to protect the enjoyment of all human rights by all lgbti persons, including in europe. (applause)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 162)
mr president, i would like to put forward the following oral amendment for insertion before paragraph 4: ‘welcomes the fact that yasser ali, the former spokesperson of the ousted president morsi, and prominent figure in the muslim brotherhood, has been released and acquitted of charges; calls for the swift release of all political prisoners’. this is the oral amendment on behalf of my group.
author. - mr president, we want to replace, at the end of j, ‘killed 1 150 pro-morsi demonstrators’ with ‘according to an independent egyptian fact-finding committee, killed 607 pro-morsi demonstrators’.
in writing. respect for the fundamental rights of european citizens vis-à-vis the community institutions and the promotion of the principles of efficient administration are essential conditions for maintaining the democratic standards of the union. considers it important to increase the credibility of the ombudsman as a european body that contributes to strengthening the european institutional framework and increasing transparency by facilitating access to information for the benefit of citizens. according to eurostat statistics, the community institutions enjoy a high degree of trust among citizens in many member states, exceeding the trust accorded to national governments. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the participation of the european parliament and of the council in union programmes. i voted in favour of this resolution because i am convinced of the importance of the institution of the european ombudsman, whose independence and impartiality ensure the proper functioning of the european institutions and agencies.
in writing. i voted for this resolution because it supports the ombudsman's main objective of helping to strengthen the structures and institutions of accountability and transparency at european level. the text of the resolution encourages the ombudsman to strengthen his channels of communication and to improve the information provided to european citizens so that they are properly informed about the ombudsman's services and responsibilities.
in writing. it is to be welcomed that during her short mandate in 2013, ms emily o'reilly, the european ombudsman elected on 3 july 2013, did a remarkable job, making every effort to strengthen cooperation with the european parliament, in particular with the parliament's committee on petitions. the ombudsman's annual report is a particularly useful tool, as it contains, among other things, information on complaints from european citizens concerning matters of maladministration in the institutions and bodies of the european union. this is ultimately a real chance for the european institutions to be effective and to really bring benefits to european citizens. the european ombudsman's annual report for 2013 is concise and comprehensive. however, i believe that in future this report should contain precise figures as to the percentage of complaints that fall within and outside the ombudsman's remit. at the same time, a clear procedure is needed to monitor complaints transferred to other institutions or bodies to ensure that citizens' concerns are addressed in an impartial, fair and timely manner.
mr president, i completely agree, and i voted for this resolution because of the statement that the solution must be political and not military, based on dialogue between all parties carried out through mediation by the un and more involvement of the european union, as the situation in libya has a considerable influence on europe’s security. we europeans must step up our efforts to help stabilise the region; we must underline the need to implement a ceasefire and secure the withdrawal of forces; we must push for the establishment of a transitional government that is inclusive of all factions and tribes in order to prevent the spread of terrorism and to weaken and disarm local armed groups. the situation in libya continues to deteriorate, violence is escalating and the territory is not under government control. restoring stability in libya will not be possible without broad-based reconciliation of the libyans. this must be our goal.
in writing. the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the dramatic situation in libya, which has experienced a succession of political, institutional and security crises since the fall of gaddafi in 2011, draws attention to the recent events of the abduction of 20 egyptian christians and the violence of dozens of militias that have spiralled out of control. unfortunately, the aspirations of the libyan people, which emerged from the 2011 revolution, have been replaced by a power vacuum, and this situation has given rise to several militias running their own territories, and successive governments in tripoli can barely enforce their authority. some of the tragedies that are happening in the mediterranean, such as the proliferation of smuggling networks and where entire ships of migrants are abandoned by their original crews, have their roots both in the wars in syria and iraq and in libya's inability to control its borders. this appeal to the international community once again underlines the imminent danger posed by the terrorist bases developing in libya to the surrounding countries and to europe.
in writing. the libyan crisis, the result of violent internal political struggles, risks destabilising the entire region in the near future, both because of its humanitarian dimension and because of the increased risk of terrorism, as warned to the un security council by hiroute guebre sellassie, the un special envoy for the sahel region. i support the provision by the european union of humanitarian, financial and political support to the libyan people in order to build a stable and prosperous democratic state, in line with the commitments under the southern mediterranean neighbourhood policies.
in writing. — four years after taking to the streets for dignity, freedom and democracy and the tragic experience of state repression which ultimately led to the ousting of the gaddafi regime, libyans find themselves today in a country characterised by political division and violence, with the risk of further escalation to an outright civil war. the intensification of the crisis has heavily affected the population, with civilian suffering, casualties, mass displacement and a spreading humanitarian crisis. the un-brokered talks in geneva represent a last chance. all parties to the conflict are called upon to make the only possible step for peace: that of freezing all military operations as proposed by un special representative leon in order to create an inclusive environment conducive to maximum restraint, national dialogue and reconciliation. there is no military solution to the current conflict, and an unconditional ceasefire is the only possible response to the suffering of the libyan population. the european union stands ready to provide the necessary support. it is the last opportunity for peace. this is the rationale of this week’s new round of political dialogue scheduled to take place in geneva. this is the call the european parliament makes by adopting this resolution.
in writing. in view of recent events, i express my solidarity with the libyan people and oppose acts of violence and serious human rights violations, in the context of the european union's firm commitment to the protection of the unity and territorial integrity of libya, and i hope that a solution will be found to defuse the deepening political crisis in libya.
in writing. a romanian citizen, eduard curduman, a sailor, fell victim to the conflict in libya when a libyan army missile was fired at his ship, which was in the rebel-controlled port of derna. this case shows how an area affected by a seemingly dead-end conflict can affect the interests and citizens of any country on the globe. any country without a master, without a sovereign, is a risky, unpredictable space, a possible source of terrorism.
in writing. i have noted and voted in favour of this resolution, which condemns the internal political struggles in libya following the fall of the gaddafi regime, as they threaten the unity of the libyan state and there is a real risk of separation unless a process of reconciliation is achieved as soon as possible. also, unfortunately, the political disputes are reflected in the population, with more civilians, including europeans, being killed in street fighting and terrorist attacks. the resolution underlines the need for the 28 member states to take joint and coordinated action under the auspices of the high representative, together with the un, nato and various regional partners, to participate in the creation of security forces in the area to ensure peace and stability in libya.
in writing. we are looking with concern at this moment to libya. this state is facing a serious and tense situation, as the authorities are almost completely out of action. recently, violence in this country has escalated alarmingly. there have been a series of attacks, the presence of extremist movements, of terrorist groups, of islamic state militias being a pressing reality. these groups pose a major threat to both the stability and security of the entire region and to the security of europe. an immediate ceasefire agreement and the adoption of a roadmap for the transition to democracy are essential to restoring stability in the area. the efforts of the un special representative to launch a dialogue between the rival factions with a view to a process of reconciliation and the formation of a government of national unity are welcome. the european union, for its part, must act more firmly and swiftly in this case, and individual initiatives by individual states must be avoided. that is why, through this resolution, i have called, inter alia, on the european union and the international community to continue to provide humanitarian, financial and political support to enable the humanitarian situation in libya to be resolved and the aspirations of building a democratic state to become a reality.
mr president, i firmly believe that ukraine needs a strong committed europe at its side in order to maintain the independence and integrity of its territory and to fulfil the ukrainian people’s desire to live in a civilised democratic state that respects the rights of the national ethnic minorities and has been cleared of a corrupt élite and corrupt judiciary system. a united and sovereign ukraine is fundamental to the stable democratic and prosperous future of the region. today it is of vital importance that the minsk protocol be fully implemented, including by russia. all threats to the lives of ukrainian citizens are to be condemned. obstacles to the work by the special monitoring mission must be removed and then ukraine must carry out the political, economic and social reform that the nation needs. it is my hope that the macro-financial assistance proposal for ukraine will be approved.
in writing. the joint motion for a resolution on the situation in ukraine again brings up the tense situation in ukraine. it should be recalled that russia considers the eu's eastern partnership as a threat to its own political and economic interests. the eu is trying to send a message that is as clear as possible: russia would benefit from these trade and economic activities, and russia's security can be enhanced by a stable neighbourhood. this resolution calls on the commission to closely monitor the impact of the so-called 'russian counter-sanctions' and to take swift action to support producers affected by russia's trade restrictions and to examine how the eu can better deal with similar crises in the future. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because all the necessary measures must be taken to give concrete and timely support to european producers affected by the actions of russia, which has used trade as a tool to destabilise the region and has introduced bans on imports of products from ukraine and the republic of moldova, as well as the reintroduction of most favoured nation duties on products from these countries.
in writing. — notwithstanding the 5 september ceasefire protocol and the memorandum of 19 september, agreed upon by all parties to the conflict, shooting and shelling continues in eastern ukraine. this week alone, hostilities claimed the life of ten innocent people when a bus was hit by a shell. russia persists in its breach of international law and is thus target of a continued eu sanction regime. only restraint, genuine commitment, national dialogue and reconciliation can contribute to a settlement of the conflict. military confrontation will only escalate the current crisis, taking parties further away from a fair and sustainable political solution which respects ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. a swift and effective implementation of priority reforms to address the country’s pressing political, security and socio-economic challenges can play a vital role to this end. ambitious policies fostering higher living standards, effective and transparent institutions and ukraine’s european path represent some of the measures required to ensure bold responses to citizens’ demands, needs and aspirations. a secure and prosperous ukraine able to rely upon modern democratic institutions and an accountable rule of law system, notwithstanding the challenging security and political circumstances, is the spirit of this resolution and hence deserves this house’s support.
in writing. the european union does not seem to be able to effectively counter russia's information warfare in ukraine, moldova and other vulnerable states in eastern europe. the resolution calls on the european commission to propose a coherent strategy within two months to counter propaganda based on a lot of falsehoods and intimidation. the resolution also calls for the continuation or increase of sanctions against russia, in a manner commensurate with russia's destabilising actions. it is the only way we can actually defend ourselves against a staggering, ongoing assault on international law and order.
in writing. i have cosigned and voted in favour of this resolution as it encourages the ukrainian authorities to continue the political and socio-economic reforms initiated with a view to building a prosperous and democratic state based on the rule of law. the text of the european parliament resolution also suggests that civil society organisations could play a greater role in social and civic dialogue in ukraine, as well as in promoting democratic change and respect for human rights.
in writing. i welcome the resolution adopted by the european parliament on the situation in ukraine. in the light of recent events, however, it is becoming increasingly important for the european union to act as one in its stance towards russia. more specifically, both the member states and the european union, through all its institutions, must resist the temptation to approach so-called 'flexible' positions in relation to russia. it is necessary to maintain firm positions and to refrain from giving in to serious and obvious abuses by diplomatic concessions and expressions. equally important, it is extremely important that the european union does not make the mistake of accepting so-called positive signals from russia to suspend the sanctions imposed on russia in march, once they expire. in the absence of any change in attitude and action, those sanctions should be extended and strengthened. at the same time, in the light of new security threats to the european union, which is facing an open conflict on its eastern border, it is becoming increasingly important for the eu to strengthen atlantic cooperation and support efforts to strengthen the eu's defence capabilities on its eastern flank, particularly in romania and ukraine.
in writing. - the resolution on the situation in ukraine adopted today in the strasbourg plenary, which i also voted for, is just one of the results of the european parliament's constant concern about developments in that country. in the context of the russian federation's failure to fully comply with its obligations under the minsk agreement of september 2014, i welcome the european parliament's request for the continuation of the sanctions regime imposed on it. the commission's request to find ways of strengthening the solidarity of the member states with regard to the continuation of these sanctions as long as russia fuels the ukrainian crisis is also important. i also welcome the concern expressed by the european parliament regarding respect for fundamental human rights and freedoms and respect for ethnic minorities in ukraine. consistency and coherence are needed in the eu and member states' policy towards ukraine and sanctions policies towards the russian federation in strengthening the eu-nato relationship. our aim is peace and stability in the region and maintaining the level of ambition with regard to the eastern partnership objectives.
in writing. the vote on the joint resolution on the situation in egypt underlines the importance of egypt as an international actor and strategic partner of the eu and hopes that egypt will continue to play an active role in launching real peace negotiations that will end these conflicts and in fighting against terrorism. it should be remembered that freedom of conscience, thought and religion should be a universal, fundamental right, and that publicly showing that this right should be respected would be an important starting point for this state's transition to democracy. in this context, i regret the decision of the egyptian court of 10 january 2015 in the baheira province of the nile delta, which sentenced karim al-banna, a 25-year-old student, to three years in prison for announcing on facebook that he is an atheist and for insulting islam. in view of the alarming situation in the maghreb/mashreq region, i would like to stress that the egyptian authorities have legal, national and international obligations to protect and promote human rights through the constitution adopted in 2014, as a priority through the independent and impartial administration of justice.
in writing. the egyptian people have faced a number of difficult political and social challenges since the 2011 revolution and need the support of the international community to continue the struggle for respect for human rights and the democratization of the state. egypt is an important partner of the european union in the southern neighbourhood. i support this resolution in the firm belief that the egyptian authorities must make significant efforts to guarantee freedom of the press, protect all religious communities and return property wrongfully confiscated by former dictatorial regimes.
in writing. i voted for this resolution because it, through the demands stipulated in its text, underlines the importance of respect for human rights, freedom of the press, but also the active role that this state can play in maintaining security and peace in the region.
in writing. since the 2011 revolution, egypt has faced a number of difficult political challenges. the 2014 presidential elections took place in a context where freedom of expression was severely restricted. the upcoming parliamentary elections in the spring of this year are long overdue and are essential to start the process of democratization of the country. the transition period to a consolidated democracy is not at all easy, and therefore the government's efforts must be intensified to successfully overcome it. this state must make the protection and promotion of human rights a priority and ensure that all those guilty of violating fundamental rights are held accountable through the independent and impartial administration of justice. egypt is a strategic partner of the european union in the fight against terrorism and plays a key geopolitical role in the middle east peace process. the eu has been and will remain a trusted partner of egypt and will continue to support egypt in strengthening its institutions, respecting and defending human rights and promoting social justice and security. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. if you respond to injustice with injustice, it's against the very idea of justice. this appears to be the case of two italian marines, accused without charge of killing two indian fishermen they believed were part of a pirate attack. a dramatic case on both sides. the two italians, europeans, should be tried by a court that has the right to do so, without delay. but to keep them in a kind of administrative prison, without rules, is not right. it's what's happening to them now in india.
in writing. i voted for this resolution because it calls into question once again the need to respect human rights in all situations. the resolution also underlines an important point, namely that the rights and security of union citizens in third countries should be protected by eu diplomatic missions. the case of the two italian marines must never happen again.
in writing. the european commission has adopted its work programme for 2015, setting out actions to bring about real change in terms of jobs, growth, investment and to meet external challenges. in foreign policy, we need a stronger europe. the crisis in ukraine, the worrying situation in the middle east and the recent terrorist attacks in france show how important it is for europe to be united externally. for the common european foreign policy to work more effectively, better mechanisms must be put in place to anticipate events in advance and to identify common responses quickly, and we must be more effective in bringing together europe's instruments of external action. i believe that the european executive forum must also step up its engagement with our eastern neighbours, such as ukraine, the republic of moldova and the western balkans, to continue negotiations to provide a european perspective, but also to promote closer cooperation, association and partnership that further strengthen our economic and political ties.
in writing. i believe that the european union's top priority must be to ensure sustainable economic growth and quality jobs for its citizens. when it comes to people, we must look at the future of europe in all its dimensions, but above all at the social dimension, which i consider to be substantial and which i believe the european commission should include in its work programme.
in writing. i voted for the commission's 2015 work programme because in strategic terms the elements envisaged by the commission are correct. the focus of the agenda on investment, economic development and job creation is a positive thing, but it must be supported by european social policies and measures. it is important, however, that in future the commission should respect the work programme approved by the european parliament.
in writing. — the commission work programme (cwp) for 2015 can be used as a powerful tool for tackling the current social, economic and political reality in europe which is linked, to a large extent, to the years of austerity, rising unemployment – especially among young people – increasing inequality and lowering of social standards. through the 23 proposals outlined in the commission’s agenda, the work programme aims to deliver an investment plan for europe, promote economic stability and advance the creation of a single digital market package. while an ambitious programme, i believe the cwp lacks a substantial social dimension that i view as essential for tackling europe’s current needs. we need stronger proposals on creating more opportunities for young people, combating growing economic inequalities, fighting rising poverty, social dumping and labour market discrimination. europe needs a new sustainable model where economic, social and environmental progress is equally assured and mutually reinforced. we need a broad reflection on the future of europe to achieve a fully-fledged political union which would regain its democratic legitimacy and citizens’ trust. these elements are reflected in the s&d resolution, which i voted in favour of today.
in writing. turkey is a crucial ally of the west in a very important area of the world and, in any case, vital to europe and the united states. the destruction of the democratic and eventually secular turkish project would be a tragedy for the west. this resolution is an important signal from the european parliament to a friendly, allied, close country to stay within a liberal-democratic model. it is debatable, in historical perspective, to what extent turkey's disappointments with the european union have contributed to this situation. in any case, turkey must be a modern democracy first and foremost for itself, for its citizens, and not for any european conditionalities.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because freedom of the press and of expression are important values of the european union. turkey is a partner state of the european union, faithful to democratic values, and should be encouraged by the european states in such a way as to stop possible abuses or undemocratic slippages.
in writing. i am appalled to see that freedom of expression is flagrantly violated in turkey. although some progress has been made, the 2014 interim report reveals that pressures on the media continue, cases against journalists have increased, the media have come under the influence of interest groups, and censorship by owners of press groups has increased. the tragic events of the past week in france have confirmed as clearly as possible that freedom of expression is an essential value of a democratic state and that it cannot be restricted. the mass protest that followed in the streets of paris reaffirmed the solidarity of european citizens and their allies that there is a general consensus for the sanctity of this right. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the violation of a fundamental right such as freedom of expression is the end of democracy. turkish officials need to understand that the revision of the criminal law that impedes the exercise of fundamental rights such as freedom of the press and equality must be a top priority.
in writing. i stress the importance of press freedom and respect for democratic values for the eu enlargement process, in the context of a number of provisions in the legal framework in turkey and their interpretation by some representatives of the judiciary, which continue to restrict freedom of expression, including media freedom, thus creating the framework for the latest wave of arrests in turkey, on 14 december 2014, when a number of journalists and media executives were arrested by the turkish police. i support freedom of expression and freedom of the press as essential values for the functioning of a democratic society, and to this end i consider it necessary to respect procedural guarantees, the presumption of innocence and the independence of the judiciary. i support calls on the government of turkey to end the pressure and intimidation against journalists and media organisations.
in writing. — the recent police raids and detention of journalists and media representatives in turkey are deplorable and must be condemned. it is unacceptable to harass and detain journalists. increasing political pressure on the media restricts access to news for the people. recently, opposition journalists, including ekrem dumanlı, editor-in chief of zaman newspaper, and hidayet karaca, general manager of the samanyolu broadcasting group, have been detained because of criticising the government in turkey. a group of international journalists were harassed and deported for reporting on the gezi park and kobane protests. let us remind the turkish authorities that journalism is not a crime, but a crucial instrument of democracy. i join my colleagues in calling on the turkish authorities to respect, ensure and guarantee media freedom and implement the action plan on violations of the european convention on human rights adopted in 2014. the turkish government must ensure that such practices as political harassment and arbitrary detention due to freedom of expression are no longer tolerated. i strongly urge the government of turkey to make every effort possible to release as soon as possible the detained journalists.
in writing. - we voted for the european parliament's joint resolution on freedom of expression in turkey, which is one of the manifestations of our concern, as meps, about the accelerated degradation of the status of journalists in the eu's neighbouring country. in its resolution adopted today, parliament condemns the police crackdown and detention of journalists and media representatives on 14 december 2014. the european parliament document states that these actions call into question the respect for the principles of the rule of law and freedom of expression, which are the essence of democracy. the resolution expresses concern at the backsliding of turkey's democratic reforms. the document also underlines that the instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa ii) for the period 2014-2020 provides for the introduction of more coherent principles aimed at providing financial assistance to turkey and the overall progress made in the implementation of the pre-accession strategy and the full respect of fundamental rights and freedoms, including freedom of expression.
mr president, we do not agree with the request made by our colleague. we have already had a debate on monday in the committee on foreign affairs, in the presence of the ukrainian ambassador to the european union, and all the political groups have expressed this position very clearly and there is nothing to add to it. i agree with what our colleague has just said about the attitude of athens, because we were all surprised to discover that this attitude was unacceptable. but i think it is enough to say frankly here that this alliance with putin that tsipras wants to make is unacceptable.
mr president, the global nature of recent terrorist violence demands that we redouble our efforts to provide a genuine area of security, and that we integrate the internal and external aspects of the fight against terrorism. many of the instruments have already been put in place, and in such cases we need only to consolidate or better apply rules, or to exercise trust among member states. a european security policy would probably have more respect for the rule of law and fundamental rights principles than the current patchwork of individual member state solutions. fighting for more security should never jeopardise the other objectives of freedom and justice. this is what must always differentiate us from the people we try to protect ourselves from. however, all security policy measures must go hand in hand with introspection as to the causes of radicalisation and with an effort to develop more social cohesion and inclusiveness in our societies.
in writing. in view of the recent heinous terrorist attacks in paris, other terrorist actions in europe, the many attempts to carry out terrorist attacks in europe thwarted by the security and intelligence agencies of the member states of the european union, it may be time for the institutions of the union to consider the possibility of setting up a counter-terrorist intelligence service of the european union. i know that there is still reluctance on the part of some countries in the union to follow such a project, but europe is under attack and we must respond appropriately in order to protect our citizens, our institutions, our values, our freedom, the freedom to think, to speak, to act, to write, as we please. the first step towards the realisation of such a project should be the creation of a special intelligence department which integrates the intelligence services of the member states, the united states and other partners, so that our security institutions can act at the right time to counter possible terrorist attacks in europe. a body to better share relevant information with the european union and with other states' intelligence and security bodies. i invite you to analyse and work on these proposals in the interests of our citizens.
in writing. – maybe it is not surprising that the first thing one could hear after the attacks in paris was a warning against our anti-islamic response. this is already a media and political ritual. each massacre is followed by appeals to calm, addressed to people who are portrayed as potential fanatics. the more innocent citizens pay with their lives, the more sophisticated excuses are produced for murder. this is simply a denial of reality. we should name names and know where the threat comes from. reality cannot be supressed and eventually it will catch up with us. what i propose to the european parliament is to defend european values by speaking the truth before it is too late. the massacre in paris was followed by two huge rallies – one in paris, the other in grozny, the capital of chechnya, where 500 000 people expressed their support for islamism and rejected western freedom of expression. the rally was described as spontaneous, but under ramzan kadyrov, the chechen authorities are nothing more than a putin puppet regime. the rally was organised with obvious soviet-style choreography. it should remind the eu that putin’s regime is using every form of overt and covert operation to undermine european values and unity.
in writing. the economic crisis has affected most economic sectors, with the consequences being increased unemployment, decreased productivity and profitability in certain sectors. the post-crisis 'hangover' effect has led to a sharp decline in investment at eu level, which has contributed to a decline in confidence and created a relative uncertainty about the european economic climate. we need financial instruments to stimulate private investment and guarantee its implementation. private capital intervention in public investment will mean more efficient and responsible spending. the outcome of the greek elections created new fears and immediately affected financial markets, with effects that are subsequently reflected in the economies of the member states. i am convinced that the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) will play a role in reducing these fears and in strengthening investor confidence in the eu's economic potential. by attracting private capital into the economy and guaranteeing investments, the new investment strategy brings multiple benefits: it guarantees investments by facilitating access to credit, contributes to the development of smes through job creation and generates long-term investment. at the same time, i believe that any possible additional contribution of more than 8 billion from the eu budget should be excluded from discussion.
in writing. with the highest unemployment rate in the eu (26% and rising to 51% among young people), almost a third of the population excluded from public health care and below the poverty line, including 40% pension cuts, a gdp per capita 30% below 2008 levels and a record eu public debt equivalent to 175% of national gdp, greece is exhausted by the crisis, austerity and impoverishment. the outcome of the legislative elections is a wake-up call in this regard. the huge sums spent by international creditors on greece alone, as well as the painful social costs, show how much investment, coordinated at european level, is needed in the equation to break out of stagnation. i believe that compliance with greece's commitments on fiscal responsibility and a realistic assessment of the country's ability to repay its debts can provide a basis for investment-based recovery. the increasingly desperate situation in greece is a warning sign of the economic future of a european union that is failing to find the pace of growth it needs. i therefore believe that the strategic investment fund should focus on channelling liquidity to the countries and sectors most affected by the crisis.
in writing. – the eu needs an ambitious investment plan to re-launch growth and create jobs. the proposal to mobilise additional public and private investment in the real economy, worth at least eur 315 billion, should be complemented by a series of measures to remove barriers to investment and to create a genuine single market. i am glad that strategic infrastructure, research and educational projects will play a central role. however, there are many questions about this plan – largely in relation to the fact that it does not address internal economic divergences. the plan should be improved; it should complement regional development programmes; and we must not forget european values such as equity and solidarity.
in writing. i am one of those politicians who believes in public investment, but also understands that in today's world, the state needs to involve private investors in the actions it takes. however, although i was initially a supporter of the european investment plan, i have become increasingly sceptical following the latest information received. my caution and my question marks stem from the transformation of this european economic recovery plan into a financial fund that mimics private high-risk funds and does not preserve the basic principles of the european union, such as solidarity, equity and social values. more specifically, the statements of the european commissioners show that there is no mechanism by which the distribution of funds takes into account the diversity of the member states, their level of development, their capacity for co-financing or national rules on legislation, social protection or the environment. i must stress that the distribution of funds remains unclear. the allocation of only 20% of funds to smes is also too low in relation to their possible contribution to job creation and economic development. i just hope that the way the selection process is going to be organized is a more transparent one.
in writing. – considering the 23 million unemployed in the european union, expectations are justifiably high regarding the juncker commission’s eur 15 billion investment plan to put europe back on a growth track and create new jobs. i believe that, in order to achieve good results with the investment plan, we must follow two rules from the outset. first, we should ensure that enough money is targeted towards countries where there is insufficient credit for smes, thereby creating more impact where this money is truly needed. second, with regard to the project selection criteria, we should ensure that these are clear enough and that they allow for competitiveness between projects, but, at the same time, that they lead to the financing not of deadweight projects that would have been financed anyway but of projects with a high leverage effect conducive to the creation of jobs which would not have been created in the absence of the financing. we should also use this tool to support investment in novel and high-risk areas like green energy and the digital economy, where investment is truly needed and where we can have a strong impact in terms of the realisation of the eu 2020 strategy.
in writing. i welcome the european commission's focus on implementing the investment programme through the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) as soon as possible. i appreciate the conceptual construction of this fund and the fact that member states can participate in the formation of the capital needed for the fund, and this effort will be taken into account in the budget deficit analysis. i believe that both potential private investors and beneficiaries of investments want to know more details about the mechanism of formation of the financing costs. it is important that the efsi contributes to achieving a reasonable balance between the desire of investors for the highest possible return and the desire of the beneficiaries of investments that need the lowest possible cost of funding.
mr president, we are all aware of the fact that climate change is a reality. around the world the impact of climate change is accelerating and the most vulnerable countries are already paying the higher price. last september, the conclusions of the intergovernmental panel on climate change were published and the debate about human influence on the climate is now over: we are responsible for warming the earth. luckily, next november is rapidly approaching. we have never had a better opportunity than the upcoming summit to tackle the tremendous danger of climate change. this is the greatest challenge that we must face but we must face it with the greatest ambition and hope. next november in paris, not only european citizens but more than 7 billion people will ask us to be brave and for our choices to be bold. they will ask us to go beyond our differences and our doubts and to chart a new course together. much has to be done in paris but if we are able to make the climate agreement a reality our generation will not be remembered as the one that destroyed the world but as the one that finally came to respect it.
in writing. – whilst the commission tries to reform the emissions trading scheme – which is probably the world’s most ambitious climate legislation – with its proposal for a market stability reserve after 2020, there have been some encouraging signs from international partners who have made further commitments to capping carbon emissions. but reducing the output of co2 is only part of the solution in limiting global warming. we also need an agreement to ensure the protection of forests and other natural carbon sinks, as this will be essential for both adaptation and mitigation. i call on the eu negotiating team to prioritise this, and to ensure that international financing will be used to protect natural carbon sinks, which also provide essential eco-services such as water purification, air filtration, and flood defence.
mr president, as you know very well, the member states have set themselves targets for network interconnection, wanting a single market for energy in europe, and networks are the basis of this single market and the union's energy union, which is why the ppe group is calling for a resolution debate on this subject.
mr president, the s&d group is opposed to this proposal for two very good reasons. the first is that there is already an own-initiative report on the same subject in the itre commission which will be presented in the next few days, and the second very strong reason is that in just two weeks we will have the plan presented by vice-president šefčovič, which is of course a very comprehensive plan which also includes this very important transport issue and which will resolve the whole issue, including the two countries of the iberian peninsula and the baltic countries, but also the mediterranean countries and the countries of south-east europe, in the overall draft presented by mr šefčovič. and i think it is good to wait for this plan, it will be discussed at the session on 25 february and we will certainly have the opportunity to discuss such an important subject in the whole of the european energy market.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, intellectual property has been and will be one of the priorities of the european union, the evolution of human society being based on creativity and inventiveness. the key industries contribute around 38.6% to the eu's gross domestic product, and defending these rights aims to promote people's ability to create concepts and values that lead to the economic development of society and increase the number of jobs. europe itself is attractive to investors because of the legislative framework that preserves and promotes intellectual property rights. i welcome and encourage any initiative at european union level in this regard. the tasks assigned to the office for harmonisation in the internal market and the creation of the observatory add value to the process of creating effective and coordinated collaboration at national, european and global levels, with the aim of combating infringement of intellectual property rights and developing the creative sectors in the european union. however, they consider that any overlap between the observer's responsibilities and those of the expert group should be avoided. i support the establishment of a simplified functional framework, by clearly defining the tasks of the two entities to make the work more efficient and the responsible use of human and material capital and, not least, to reduce unnecessary costs. i am confident that both parliament and the commission will continue to support the progressive harmonisation of this sector.
the european commission has set up this group of experts. but i wonder why this group was needed, if we already have a clear and precise action plan for protecting intellectual property rights. if we do have this team of experts, then i ask the commission to use these specialists to speed up the implementation of the proposed solutions and to stop delaying concrete action. we need a clear timetable of action. there are three clear directions in this area: informing consumers, supporting and protecting innovation, blocking the distribution of copied products. without immediate action, innovative european companies are losing important funds. creative researchers are leaving europe because their ideas are not protected or supported, as is the case for digital entrepreneurs, and citizens are being duped by products that often fail to comply with consumer protection rules. remember, when we talk about intellectual property, we are talking about a right and i ask the european commission not to look for other solutions when it should normally act directly.
mr president, the protection of intellectual property rights and copyright is extremely important and i am glad that we are having this discussion here in parliament today. i do not understand, commissioner, and perhaps you will tell us in your answers whether the group of experts has thought or has thought about having specific instruments? because it's one thing to protect an industrial design, an industrial creation, and it's another to protect a literary creation, a film, a music, a theater. we know very well that there's a lot of piracy going on right now in the film industry, in the artistic creation industry, in the music industry. these people have a cost and they can't recoup, basically, the investment they made and, obviously, their work. have you thought about finding tools specific to each area? and let us not forget, commissioner, as we have said since the commissioners' hearing: we need to regulate and have trade defence measures within the european union market; we often regulate too much within and leave out, without any barrier, the entry of products into the european union market.
(start of speech not heard)... a free, collectively managed, secure internet that protects users and digital developers, but does not compromise privacy or protect those who commit crimes. the european union must become a leader in this field and strongly express its position for the continuation of the mandate given by the united nations to the internet governance forum. we need the involvement of all actors in the management of the internet and we need to fight against tendencies to control this space, as was the case with acta, or what has recently happened in several european countries, including hungary. but we need to create mechanisms through which the institutions that are designed to protect us can act. but we have to understand that the internet is for many people a source of hope. hope for democracy in undemocratic states, the chance to develop a transnational business for small european entrepreneurs or the only way of communication for those who have families far away, as is the case of the diaspora and the diaspora in my country, romania. (applause) thank you very much.
all the polls show that europeans want to know where the food they eat comes from. one reason is the desire to buy local products to support local producers. another may be trying to avoid food brought from thousands of miles away because of the huge impact on the environment. there are people who want to know details about the origin of food for religious reasons. however, clearly the main factor influencing this decision is cost, and the labelling requirements and in particular the requirement to specify the country of origin of the food were said to lead to an increase in prices. the commission certainly needs to look very carefully at this impact of labelling regulations. so far, the commission's studies have been based on reports from the food industry. however, there are also external studies that indicate different results. we need a much more serious analysis of the potential costs before we deny consumers the right to be informed. we already have rules that require country of origin labelling for fresh meat, and we have traceability systems for food safety reasons. so the systems already exist and are functional. i therefore do not think that an increase in food prices would be justified if this information were also communicated to consumers through labels.
food safety and traceability of food products and food by-products must be top priorities for authorities at european and national level. practice has shown us, however, that simply labelling the country of origin or place of origin of meat does not prevent fraud in the food sector or improve food safety. such regulation would only increase the level of information of citizens. i support a voluntary system of labelling the origin of ingredients in meat products which allows member states to opt for the introduction of such regulation. both at national and european level, there are authorities responsible for ensuring product traceability to ensure consumer safety, and we need to ensure that these institutions function effectively. in some countries, like my own, where purchasing power is reduced because of low incomes, where small and medium-sized enterprises producing consumer products represent a large part of the food sector, it is difficult to talk about such regulation which can bring an additional administrative burden as well as higher manufacturing costs, and therefore, by implication, higher costs of food products consumed by citizens. my personal position, which is the same as that of romania and the majority of the group to which i belong, is to maintain the current voluntary labelling system.
in writing. the first objective of food labelling is to provide consistent and transparent information so that the consumer can make an informed choice. many european companies are responding to this expectation by providing information on the origin of the product as a voluntary practice. a 'one size fits all' approach, requiring mandatory labelling of the origin of meat used as an ingredient in processed foods would have severe negative consequences for food manufacturers, farmers, retailers and consumers, create significant supply chain problems, lead to possible disruption and major inefficiencies, with the potential to increase consumer prices and food waste. all of this could result in a less competitive european food chain. as regards the consumer, a balanced measure must be identified to ensure that the consumer is informed, but without significant increases in the prices of meat products and without increasing the administrative burden for both the authorities and the agro-industrial operators, who are already facing financial difficulties due to the economic crisis.
in writing. – origin labelling provides consumers with the possibility to make informed choices about the food they wish to purchase and consume. consumers’ interest in the origin of their food has grown over the years, meat products being no exception, as most studies show that the origin of meat is usually in the top five aspects influencing purchase options. origin labelling for foodstuffs with meat as an ingredient would answer concerns related to food quality, food safety, and animal welfare, but also economic and environmental concerns. considering that, compared to the eu/non-eu labelling option only specific country of origin labelling could provide meaningful information, it is only in the latter case that introducing new labelling measures would make sense. nevertheless, considering the anticipated costs associated with such measures, maybe the commission should explore the possibility of limiting the scope of application of such a labelling measure so as to ensure that consumers have enough information, but at the same time producers would not have to bear an excessive burden.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express my concern that the recent attacks in paris may be used to delay once again romania's entry into the schengen area. there is no link between free movement within the schengen area and what happened in paris. on the contrary, it is time for the countries of the schengen area to understand that the extension of this area can strengthen the area of security and defence in europe. we cannot allow our european values of freedom, dignity and solidarity to be jeopardised by provocative acts by extremists whose aim is to divide us, make us feel threatened and suspicious within our own borders. i hope therefore that a decision will be taken quickly on romania's inclusion in the schengen area, which will make it possible to affirm once again that the threat of terrorism will not weaken us.
the current international context underlines the essential need for the european union to invest heavily in strengthening relations with partners in the non-community area. in this respect, the eu's border areas are all the more in need of substantial investment. infrastructure vital for the interconnection of the eu with neighbouring regions should be supported including through the strategic investment plan presented by the commission. the right allocation of european resources to the development of large transport infrastructure in eastern europe is an obligation for decision-makers in the period ahead. statistically, transport infrastructure investments have the highest rate of multiplication of all investments. in addition, investments in motorways, railways, ports or airports help local economies to grow and create the long-awaited jobs that we all promised to provide to our citizens, and especially to our young people. the strategic priority for the development of eu border areas must be based on major infrastructure investments. romania alone currently has infrastructure project proposals worth eur 62 billion. if we look at the 23 billion euros available, we conclude that we need more money to be directed to this sector.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to ask you, my dear colleague, contrary to what you have said, that some employees want to escape responsibility, if you do not think it is important that employers also have responsibility, if there should not be a balance between the responsibility that employees and employers have and, in the end, employers are the ones who have to induce a way of working and a behaviour and, in practice, there should be a good understanding between the two parties, as there cannot be one without the other.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that today's subject is extremely important, perhaps more so than we can imagine. we must judge rationally and not passionately. the right to strike must exist. i don't think we should put it on the table. but it is just as important, as mr cofferati said, to regulate oneself before going on strike. the strike must not please anyone, it must not make anyone happy, because the strike means loss on both sides. employers cannot exist without employees, just as employees cannot have a job without an employer. that's why both sides must understand that the negotiation must be fair. social responsibility must increase, but we must not encourage indiscipline. employers need to understand that they are not working with robots, but at the same time, they cannot ensure competitiveness and productivity without satisfied and well-trained people. i've heard the word "fight" a lot here, i think there should not be the word "fight", but there should be regulation, dialogue, and this is the responsibility of the governments of each country.
the question is "blue cardboard". madam president, you talk about borders and how they will cause problems for france. i come from romania, whose main trading partner is france. france exports billions of euros worth of products to romania. france and romania have economic exchanges and you also have romanian doctors and students in france, romanians who are working very well in your country. why do you want to close the borders? the solution to the problem of youth unemployment must be found by working together. i think our partnership can be an example of that.
mr president, the commission’s proposal of last week will surely prove to be beneficial, especially for member states with high rates of youth unemployment, particularly as measures adopted so far have proven their limits. the main reason is that the commission put the money at the disposal of the member states but did not offer the proper means for them to use the money. although the youth employment initiative has been in place for more than a year, there are still member states that have not yet – up to now – adopted the operational programmes that allow them to make full use of these funds. the late adoption of the european social fund regulation and also of the mff regulation, as well as the delayed signing of the partnership agreements, also led to this situation. nevertheless, due to the condition imposed – to submit interim payment applications in which the european union’s contribution from the youth employment initiative is at least 50% of the additional pre-financing – some member states might use the money for projects that do not really bring added value and might opt just to spend the money for purely statistical and mathematical reasons. the ʽhowʼ we spend the money is also important, not just the ʽifʼ we spend the money. i would therefore like to draw attention to another issue which we will be facing next year. the entire financial envelope of the youth employment initiative was frontloaded to 2014 and 2015, so next year we will have to use the global margin for commitments. but then again eur 2 billion of this margin will be used to finance the guarantee for the european fund for strategic investments and we do not know exactly how much money will be left afterwards. so i think that greater challenges lie ahead of the youth employment initiative in the future, particularly next year and the years between next year and 2020. hopefully these shortcomings will be properly addressed, especially if the programme proves a real success through the recent measures.
in writing. today, in europe, there are over five million young people under 25 without a job. without urgent support measures for young people, the post-crisis generation risks being a 'lost generation'. support initiatives financed by the cohesion fund were needed to combat youth unemployment. their integration into the labour market has meant major investments in training programmes, encouragement of 'youth on the move' actions, training courses in new trades, specialisations in fields adapted to new technological trends. it is worrying that youth unemployment can have serious consequences in the future, with major financial implications. firstly, their reintegration after a long period of inactivity involves numerous costs, and secondly, the lack of activity is directly reflected in social contributions. given that by 2020 approximately 90% of jobs will be directly related to digital technology, adapting educational methods to technological developments is a necessity. supporting youth initiative for start-up projects and supporting initial failures can put the eu back on a global playing field alongside the us and other competitors.
in writing. the project to increase funds for young people is encouraging for those who are out of work. youth unemployment is alarming and a threat to the economic stability of the eu. projects at local and regional authority level are needed to encourage entrepreneurship among young people and their vocational training. financial resources should be allocated to regions, with particular attention to the least favoured. we must not forget that youth unemployment is one of the main reasons for emigration.
in writing. – considering the difficulties that young people have in accessing the labour market, and the commitment of the eu to provide them with immediate support, i welcome the new change to the esf regulation. this would allow quick mobilisation of resources for measures that have already proven effective in transforming the lives and career opportunities for disadvantaged young people. the european youth initiative is one of our means to increase the credibility, legitimacy and trust in the european institutions. this instrument raises awareness of the fact that europe stands by the side of its young citizens to help them face the consequences of the current economic situation. for european support to make a real difference the youth unemployment initiative must provide fast and substantial mobilisation of youth measures, well publicised by a broad communication campaign that reaches the greatest possible number of young people. i believe that supporting and monitoring cooperation with project partners is fundamental to help member states to quickly implement the measures and to make sure that funds are spent where they are most needed and in the best way possible.
in writing. – the fight against youth unemployment should be a top priority. the draft that the european commission has put forward is a good step but we need to see results. the unemployment figures in the european union are still high. the reform has to start with the educational field that should help young people to integrate on the labour market. but this is not enough; lasting economic growth is needed. mobility is essential and we must not forget that. having more funds is very good, but we should know how to use them. we have to abandon austerity and invest in young people.
in writing. the increase of 1 billion euro in the youth guarantee fund is a positive thing, but i think it is not enough for the 7 million young unemployed in europe. the problem of youth unemployment is a systemic one generated by the current economic context, our inability to make progressive and quick decisions and by the lack of a long-term strategy. a coherent plan at european level is needed now more than ever, because europe is the hope of these young people. we need to monitor and support member states in implementing policies and projects with real results in long-term job creation. i do not think that closing borders is the solution, but opening up, but also developing common social and environmental norms. 3 million romanian citizens live in other european countries and contribute 2% of the gdp of italy and spain, treat english and french patients in hospitals or build houses in germany. i support a european solution and propose that we adapt to the world of tomorrow by investing in the training of tomorrow's professionals. a sustainable direction is represented by digital or sustainable development-related professions.
in writing. although the discussions on the youth employment initiative have clearly demonstrated that there are differences between member states, i believe that addressing this issue at european level is welcome and should be encouraged. we all know that youth unemployment is increasing every day. the market demands are sometimes ridiculous, requiring work experience from young people just out of the pews of educational institutions. the problem of immigration among young people - many, many of them with higher education - shows us the seriousness of the situation at european level. the problem is a very serious one: in the countries where they emigrate, they create competition in the local labour market, often leading to conflict. the search for a job for young people has become a cause of psychological struggle today. the struggle for a job among young people has already become a cause of racism. the lack of jobs is causing a decline in the new generation. we must support any initiative by citizens or institutions, european or national, which creates jobs for young people.
in writing. the prolonged economic crisis and the specter of stagnation and recession that threatens the euro area, but also the eu as a whole, are putting immense pressure on the priorities that the union, and the member states, must take into account. many of these measures are urgent, but nothing can be more urgent than to take concrete action on behalf of the 7 million young europeans who are currently out of work and out of education. the proposal to increase the pre-financing of the youth employment initiative by eur 1 billion for 2015 is welcome and justified. i support the approval of this initiative in the ep and the awareness that the effectiveness of this measure depends equally on action at european level, implementation at member state level and a proactive attitude of young people themselves. it is our duty to draw their attention to new possibilities, to inform them of the programmes that are intended for them and to mobilise them to participate in these programmes. it is disappointing that the ep debate was another opportunity for eurosceptics and populists to call for limiting mobility in the eu, thus proposing false solutions to real problems.
mr president, the financial crisis has led to revenue stagnation in many member states and in some cases even to a reduction in the share of value added created in companies that goes to employees. it is no coincidence that the british prime minister recently told business people that it was time to raise the wages of their employees. i believe that encouraging employees to become shareholders in the companies they work for is an effective way to increase revenues and to motivate them in the company's results. however, i believe that the best way to encourage employees to become shareholders is through the company's own profit-sharing policy and the tax policy of each member state, which should encourage this process. i think that at european union level we can only think about the extent to which certain regulations are necessary in the field of supervision of companies in which employees become shareholders.
member of the commission. ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your contributions during the debate. i would like to mention perhaps in my brief reflection one angle of view that we have not discussed here, and that is the angle of view from the consumer's side, who is entitled to quality services. i also greet the visitors to the stable. and now maybe what we're talking about here, i'll bring a little bit of practice. i myself as a consumer, as a person who goes to the store, sometimes when i come across a saleswoman who is unhelpful, unwilling, slow, who lets me know that i'm bothering her, i wonder what she's actually getting out of it to make the store thrive. and i'm thinking that it would be good if the people in the service were motivated financially to make me leave as a customer feeling that i was valued and therefore well served. so that's what we're talking about here, ladies and gentlemen, today. i would like to respond by saying that the commission has as its main objective growth and employment, prosperity and a stable business environment, as has been stated here. at the same time, improving the business environment and avoiding additional bureaucratic burdens. these are all objectives and at the same time pitfalls that we need to tackle in the commission with smart and well-targeted legislative proposals. and that's among other activities that i'm not going to mention here. anyway, what i learned from the debate today is that we generally understand that greater employee participation in corporate governance and information and decision-making and increased ownership of companies is good for business. that we don't really see it as a social aspect and a social improvement in the lives of employees, but it's just good and demonstrably good for the bottom line of those companies. and this is proved by the long debates, by the previous resolutions of parliament and by the study that the commission is currently working on and which we received on 28 october last year. this study proposes some specific measures that i will follow in preparing any legislative proposal, which, as you know, cannot come this year because it is not in this year's work plan. but we will consider reflection in the 2016 draft legislation, which, i can assure you, will be more of a voluntary instrument. i do not think that we can come up with something from the european union's position that we will dictate to anyone, because there are indeed great differences between the individual member states in the business culture, as stated here, in the ability of employees to understand even the investment behaviour of companies, and in some countries there is a need to increase their awareness. there's an interesting passage in the study i had the opportunity to read about that, too. this means that it will be a softer piece of legislation, i.e. voluntary, and more of a recommendation, which will refer to examples of good practice. mrs bilba barandic was talking about how she sees this as a recommendation for a good and successful model of corporate governance. i feel very much the same way because i also came from a business background, i ran a company, and i also worked in the private sector for a long time. i think that in the search for a good model for managing companies, we must always act and aim to distribute responsibilities and risks appropriately. and these are all things that we have to deal with if we are to offer a good model to follow, one that can be used in all member states despite the great differences. we have a big challenge ahead of us, but i can't help but agree with those of you who said that boosting employee motivation by being financially engaged is good for the economy. i'm not going to quote what the study recommends, but very briefly: it's setting up a virtual online hub, an online tool to inform about these good models, it's setting up an expert group, it's actually creating the action plan that some of you here have been calling for. i'm not saying at this point that we're going to follow those recommendations to the letter, but we're going to be very inspired by them and we're going to be very serious about them. thank you for the offer of the basque model and the project, i would very much like to see it. i also thank those of you who have called for better cross-border business. you know that we are preparing the second phase of the insolvency procedure, the rules for insolvency proceedings for cross-border businesses, so thank you for these inspirations and for giving me interesting ideas for the consumer policy, which i mentioned at the beginning.
the next item is the report by inés ayala sender, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on facilitating cross-border exchange of information on road safety related traffic offences (com(2014)0476 – c8-0113/2014 – 2014/0218(cod)) (a8-0001/2015).
the cross-border exchange of information on traffic offences goes beyond the scope of mere police cooperation and is part of a much larger objective, namely road safety, which is a political priority of the european parliament. this proposal for a directive brings us one step closer to the objective of reducing the number of road deaths by around 50% by 2020. the adoption of this initiative is a mission we owe to those we represent who face every day an outdated fleet of vehicles and undeveloped infrastructure, due to the drastic reduction in maintenance costs and the lack of funding for related improvement works. in a european union built on the freedom of citizens to move easily and safely within the territory of the member states, cross-border exchange of information and cooperation between the authorities of these states are essential in discouraging traffic offences by motorists.
madam rapporteur, dear colleagues, let me also congratulate you on this debate. it is very important. cooperation means more safety on the roads and let us not forget that means saving lives. so congratulations. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 11 february 2015 at 12.00. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in the democratic republic of congo (2015/2552 rsp)). i welcome the vice-president of the commission, ms mogherini.
madam president, the recent events in the democratic republic of congo are unacceptable, and the rise in violence there must be condemned by all means. the parliament has taken an important decision by enacting the electoral law. we expect the democratic republic of congo to promptly set a date for the presidential elections in 2016. the humanitarian situation in congo deteriorates every day, with a variety of threats to the safety of the population, such as conflicts over minerals, sexual violence used as a conflict weapon and tough repression by the government. the country seems to be falling step-by-step into chaos. i believe that the intimidation and arrest of political opponents and human rights defenders and the repression of civil society should be stopped by all means, and i expect the european commission to take the necessary steps to stop this. i am very concerned for the safety of our sakharov prize winner, denis mukwege, whose hospital was clearly targeted days after visiting this house. we expect as well that monusco will take the necessary measures in order to fulfil its main task: the protection of civilians.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner hahn, distinguished colleagues, i would like to begin by recalling that unrwa's role and purpose is to support a population in a dramatic situation, the palestinian refugees, throughout the middle east. in the face of current crises and conflicts, unrwa is a necessary instrument of paramount importance, both humanitarian, political and strategic. the commission notes that the financial support provided by the bank to the bank was limited to the minimum necessary to cover the costs of the bank's operations. february 26th will mark six months since the ceasefire that ended the fifty-day war in gaza. at that time, 96,000 palestinian refugee homes were destroyed or severely damaged by the conflict. throughout this conflict, unrwa has been a stabilizing force, it has been a force of help, even in dramatic conditions for the personnel who serve this noble cause and to whom we must convey our full appreciation and respect. however, in six months, unrwa received only a small fraction of the funds promised to deal with the destruction. even partially destroyed infrastructure could not be rebuilt. unrwa was then forced to suspend its assistance program in gaza. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, the european union, which wants to be a force for peace... (the speaker was not present)
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. - mr president, we discussed ukraine one month ago in this very same room, if i am not mistaken, and since then the situation which was already dramatic at that time has deteriorated further, as is very evident to all of us. in the last weeks, we have seen the shelling of residential areas in mariupol, increasing attacks on civilians, and a clear escalation on the ground, in many different parts of eastern ukraine. what is at stake first of all, i would like to remind us all, are thousands of human lives, almost two million refugees and internally displaced people, the integrity and sovereignty of an independent state on european territory, and respect for basic principles of international law: the first basic principle being that you do not change borders by force. what is also at stake, especially in these very same hours where we see the escalation constantly growing in a very dangerous way, is also – and mainly, i would say – our capacity to respond to these threats, not only in an effective way to protect international law, states and the lives of civilians, but also our capacity to restore and preserve peace in europe. in these weeks, we have worked constantly; not always in a visible way but always in a very united, coordinated way and one, i would say, that is starting to be effective. just after the shelling in mariupol we took a coordinated approach, first of all with mr juncker and with mr tusk, to make sure that all the eu institutions were reacting on the same lines and with one voice, and with the 28 different member states starting with the latvian presidency. we held an extraordinary foreign affairs council meeting just a few days after the shelling of mariupol, where we decided all together – here i understand i should sit on the other side of the room but you will forgive me – to increase our pressure on russia and on the separatists, by extending the time framework of the existing list of individuals and entities to september, and by adding names. we also tasked the commission and eeas services to prepare additional options for our pressure. but we have also decided all together, keeping our unity in difficult times – and this is the first thing we must always do, keep our unity in difficult times, because this is our main strength – we also agreed to increase our diplomatic and political efforts and our diplomatic and political activity. in this respect we have worked, as we had also done in previous months, through two channels that have proved to be – i cannot say effective because we did not reach a result, but the most effective among those that we have tried: on the one side the trilateral contact group of the osce, and on the other side the so-called normandy format, to relaunch the direct contacts between kiev and moscow that had been interrupted for a while and to find effective ways finally to start implementing the minsk agreements. because at that time it was clear not only that implementation of the points of the minsk agreements was not ongoing, but also that there was a risk of completely losing any kind of reference to the only agreement that had been signed by the different parties. in this last week, as you know, we have again had initiatives on different levels – the osce channel, the normandy format channel and the constant direct contacts that i personally have had both with president poroshenko and foreign minister klimkin – and with foreign minister lavrov in munich some days ago – to support all these ongoing efforts. yesterday we had another foreign affairs council meeting where we decided together to endorse these efforts and create a space for the negotiations that are going on at present in minsk; to allow the possibility of a successful result in these negotiations tomorrow night in minsk with the meeting of the normandy format. tomorrow is a chance – not a certainty, but a chance – that cannot be missed for all the reasons that i stated at the beginning of my speech, for the people who are losing their lives, for the principles of international law, for the sovereignty of the state and for preserving and restoring peace in europe. a chance i would say, if this would not lead to a much broader discussion about our kind of world and our kind of order or disorder, to preserve some sort of global balance, global order in our times. this is what is really at stake. i do not say i hope, but i am working at this time to make sure that the whole european union – not only some member states, but the whole european union – backing these efforts, supporting these efforts, as i say sometimes quietly but always constantly and united, gets a result of some kind. there is another part of the story while we are talking about ukraine. it is the fact that, in times of crisis and conflict on ukraine’s territory, it is extremely hard and difficult to carry out reforms and the internal ukrainian situation is from an economic and social point of view still increasingly difficult and worrying. we agreed already in december with ukraine, during our first association council meeting, a list of priorities that are now trying to become concrete steps. on the government side, we see the full political will to pursue reforms. we also see and understand very well the difficulties of implementing, passing reforms in times of conflict. i am talking about constitutional reforms, decentralisation, reform of the judiciary, electoral reforms, just to mention the political ones. but then we also have economic reforms, not only macroeconomic in their nature, but also reforms that need to change fundamentally the system in which the economy in ukraine is working, starting first of all with tackling corruption. this is all very much linked to the implementation of the association agreement, parts of which have already been provisionally applied since 1 november, as you know very well since you ratified this at the same time as the parliament in kiev back in september. at this level, the european union is giving support not only politically and technically, but also economically. you know that the commission has just proposed an additional package, a third package, of eur 1.8 billion, and i trust that this measure will find your support here in parliament. we are also working through the support group for ukraine to implement the measures that are foreseen by our association agreement. we deployed an advisory mission to assist in the implementation of the civilian security sector reform and a third sector on which our work and our assistance is concentrating is obviously facilitating the gas negotiations between russia and ukraine to ensure security of supply. i will stop here and listen very carefully, as i did last time, to your debate – our debate – and take stock of that. let me say that probably the big opportunity we have today, from this european parliament, is to launch a message and the message from my side would be to the parties, firstly, obviously, to russia, but to all those that will meet tomorrow night in minsk: that they should take this opportunity and finally come to agree on the implementation measures of the minsk agreement. this is what it is all about and this is the only way in which we can start finding the way out of the crisis. i think that, here, today, we have the opportunity to send the message that, yesterday, the ministers of the 28 member states sent, united, very clearly: that this is a chance that must not be missed.
blue-card question. – i would like to know whether you are aware of the latest threats coming from russia and addressed to my country, romania, that in the event that we continue to implement nato decisions related to the infrastructure in romania, the armament station now in crimea could annihilate the romanian naval forces. are you aware of this, or not?
mr president, last night we received in the foreign affairs committee alexei pushkov, the chairman of the russian duma's international affairs committee. he told us that russia wants peace, and all the members of the house agreed with him. peace, we want it too. since last night's meeting, 2,000 russian troops have begun exercises on the border with ukraine. in crimea, 600 other soldiers began similar month-long exercises. the russian regime is thus showing its military side. and as if to make things even clearer, vladimir putin just gave the egyptian president a kalashnikov as a gift. i repeat, as a gift, a kalashnikov. is peace still possible when kalashnikovs become official gifts? nothing more difficult, but not impossible. the epp group supports the position taken in recent days by the german chancellor and the french president, because we must offer peace. and that means negotiations and an immediate halt to russian operations on ukrainian soil. we need intelligence, not kalashnikovs, to do this.
mr president, i would say to the high representative that everyone in this house agrees that tomorrow’s meeting is indeed the last chance for peace. the minsk agreement failed, but who is responsible for this failure? is it europe, as putin claimed recently in an egyptian newspaper? is it ukraine, which is paying up to eur 7 million per day for a war imposed by russia – a ukraine which has lost its territory under russian aggression? no, behind the escalation is russia, and its support by all means for the separatists. i can only welcome the efforts of the high representative and of ms merkel and mr hollande, and i hope they will remain united and in coordination with the united states. faced with russia and putin who speak peace and practise war, we welcome the decision taken by nato to deploy rapid reaction forces in central and eastern european countries. this is the only concrete measure we have taken recently to protect ourselves against russian neo-imperialism.
blue-card question. – mr brok, let us say that the peace plan fails, at which point you know we will see the separatists advancing within ukrainian territory, supported by the so-called ‘green soldiers’ – russian ‘green soldiers’ – and by new modern armaments. should the international community, the european union and the united states then provide the necessary military means to ukraine to defend its territorial integrity and independence?
mr president, i would like to thank the high representative for taking a bold initiative and for keeping a strong institutional two-way bridge with this house. the situation in eastern ukraine is steadily deteriorating. this means more violence, more human suffering and the landscape changing every single day – and for the worse. most importantly, this means peace in europe is drifting even further away. i feel extremely concerned about the rapid escalation of the conflict and about the attitude and actions of separatists and of russia. but i also share the approach we have decided to take, aware of what is at stake in ukraine today. only a strategy which creates a virtuous circle, based on necessity and proportionality between the undertakings of the eu and the situation on the ground, can lead to a sustainable solution to the conflict. important diplomatic efforts are being undertaken. peace always deserves the first chance. i thank the high representative for having done all that is politically and humanly possible in the past few days to reach an agreement. without forgetting one crucial precondition we managed to attain: our unity.
it's not a question as such, so your answer is in tune with the question. now we come to the catch the eye procedure, and although we're past our allotted time, we have 16 applicants. since we cannot give the floor to all of them, we have decided to give the floor to one person from each political group. so i'm going to ask ms. záborská to take the floor for a minute. (interventions on the application)
mr president, it seems russia is trying to make its case in europe and it has to be denied this by all means. the deteriorating situation in eastern ukraine is extremely worrisome. we are witnessing the total lack of will by russia to stop its military and financial backing of the separatists. i believe that the european union should do all in its power to prevent a large-scale war and every european country should support the diplomatic initiative taken by angela merkel and françois hollande. i strongly support the position of the council when it states that we must make all possible efforts to find a political solution to the ukrainian crisis. we cannot afford and we cannot allow a large-scale war in europe to take place again. at the same time, we hope that russia will understand the gravity of this situation and the tremendously bad effect it could have on the future security and stability of europe. in fact, the future stability of europe is at stake. i believe that if the peace plan ultimately fails, ukraine should be supported by all means to defend its territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence. i might quote margaret thatcher and her tina policy: there is no alternative.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162)
in writing. – the recent intensification of russian and russian backed violence in eastern ukraine aims at two targets: one military, another diplomatic. militarily, it becomes increasingly clear that the russian side is attempting, first, to "correct" the debaltsevo "salient", thus improving the separatists' frontline position and, second, to conquest of the city of mariupol, a big step forward towards establishing a land corridor between russia and crimea, otherwise very difficult to provide for after the illegal annexation. diplomatically, even before the peace initiative of chancellor merkel and president hollande, some analysts suggested that moscow wanted to increase the level of violence in order to bring the western powers to the negotiating table. the problem is that, given the primacy of military action, in moscow's eyes, diplomacy seems designed to buy time for the completion of the military objectives; hence, the lack of results during the meeting of the three leaders. the reverse is also true: a potential ceasefire in minsk should be followed immediately by the initiation of the process of giving a political solution to the conflict. otherwise, it will be another lost opportunity with even worse consequences.
mr president, high representative, first of all the good side of the apple: lack of progress in nuclear arms control shows the need for a higher level of ambition in the upcoming 2015 review conference of the parties to the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons (npt). there is one very positive recent element which gives us an opportunity to restore confidence in the possibility of limiting sensitive nuclear activities: progress in the talks with iran since the election of their new government. fundamental disagreements on key issues seem to have been overcome. i believe we should translate progress in the talks with iran into an agreement that establishes a comprehensive joint action plan enacting strong non-proliferation instruments for verification and as safeguards. such a forward-looking and meaningful agreement, if translated into broad international norms, would be a great boost to the npt talks. this is my opinion: it is absolutely necessary. more transparency and disarmament on the part of nuclear weapon states are a fundamental step forward in the european security strategy. now the bad side of the apple: let me remind you, high representative, of the budapest memorandum that already was mentioned here from 1994, that led to the fact that ukraine gave up its nuclear weapons in exchange for security guarantees. that risks undermining the non-proliferation process, while the crisis in ukraine shows disrespect for the security guarantees. let me, personally, thank you for your patience and for your cooperation.
blue-card question. – lots of acp countries are members of the commonwealth. do we have to understand that you are against the uk’s close cooperation with all these countries? do we have to understand that you are against the visits of the british meps in these countries to achieve better cooperation and enhance trade, cooperation on democracy, on market economy, on tourism and so on and so forth? do we have to understand that?
mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating mr goerens on his report and, in the spirit of what our spanish colleague mr lópez aguilar said earlier, i should also like to stress the exceptional nature of this joint parliamentary assembly. it is the only multilateral interparliamentary assembly created on the basis of an international agreement. as has been said, this assembly is a forum for debate on essential issues, such as development cooperation, but also the democratization and political stabilization of the acp countries. i remember, for example, the debates we had in suriname in 2012, on extremely interesting cases, such as the situation in the drc, mali, somalia. the importance of involving neighbours and regional organisations in the management of these crises was emphasised. then there's the election observation. i believe that we have already established cooperation for the elections in mali and for the second round of the presidential elections in madagascar. i was a member of those delegations and i remember that we worked very well with our acp colleagues. finally, as rapporteur on policy coherence for development, i support the very good idea of appointing two permanent co-rapporteurs in the assembly - that is what paragraph 18 says. in this way, we will have excellent cooperation.
madam president, first of all i would like to thank our rapporteur, mr charles goerens, for this very good report. madam president, the acp-eu joint assembly has become a key player in acp-eu relations and cooperation. it plays a fundamental role in achieving common understanding and agreement on issues of mutual concern. it brings more democracy to the dialogue between states, and i therefore deplore the declining participation in this conference by some eu member states. eu member states should be fully committed to this open, democratic and comprehensive dialogue. cooperation between parties is vital if we are to achieve the objectives of the european development fund and ensure european policy coherence on political, economic and environmental issues. that is why i believe we need to strengthen this dialogue, especially with the aim of achieving a strong common position for the conference in paris next november.
i support this report, but it must be said that the relationship between the european union and the acp countries has been experiencing difficulties in recent times, and i say this as a member of this assembly and as a university academic specialising in the field. the european union, which was previously the most involved international actor in this area, no longer acted unitedly and strongly enough. the lower involvement is also generated by the lack of cohesion, in my opinion, of europe, especially since the external action in these countries is dominated mainly by the old countries, the eu member states, and the new countries are less involved. i think it is important to look at the expectations of the acp countries, which expect from europe the hope of democracy, development, but also a proactive economic partnership. unfortunately, we are not as active as other countries in this part of the world. i still believe that this parliamentary assembly plays and can play an important role in this partnership. europe must give direction to this parliamentary assembly and equip it, together with its partners, with structures that monitor and act consistently in pursuing our objectives in these areas and in this partnership.
madam president, the main purpose of the hague convention is the swift return of a child to his or her habitual residence. in the eu, a court decision is supposed to be taken within six weeks. however, according to child focus, it takes an average of one year for an international child abduction case to be resolved. alongside the legal track of the hague convention, i am convinced that mediation between parents is crucial. if successful, mediation is less costly, more durable and can avoid the unnecessary relocation of the child. the commission should therefore continue to fund projects and the training of mediators who operate in an international context. i would also like to urge the commission to pay attention to the problem of stateless children. even though the place of residence is determined by the court decision, the vulnerable situation of these children requires targeted action.
in writing. in connection with the negotiations between the european commission, the international monetary fund and greece, i would like to make the following points: 1) the enormous debt that greece has is a liability of both the debtor (greece) and the creditors; 2) greece as a country cannot be declared bankrupt; it can stop paying its debts; (3) any negotiation between creditors and a debtor country shall be based on the requirement of establishing a balance between the debtor 's ability to generate revenue and the service of debt repayment in time and amount; the commission notes that the greek authorities have not provided any evidence that the restructuring plan was in line with the restructuring plan.
in writing. the adoption of a safeguard measure shall be based on multilaterally agreed rules, taking into account the application of those rules in bilateral relations as they result from internal regulations or specific preferential agreements negotiated to regulate those relations. the general rules on bilateral specifics shall in particular provide for the procedure to be followed in the event of recourse to safeguard measures. the main element that creates the prerequisites for the use of safeguard measures is the increase in imports and its effects, and less the price charged. in this context, protecting the eu's single market is essential.
in writing. — i am in favour of the proposal as it is a straightforward codification of existing texts, without any change in their substance.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of iceland in so far as it regulates the measures provided for under that protocol.
in writing. codification of european legislative acts facilitates the understanding of european union law. this legislative procedure aims at clarifying the legislative act, but it cannot be used to introduce any substantive amendments to that act. the european institutions agreed in 1994 to use an accelerated procedure to ensure the rapid adoption of codified acts. the legislative proposal which was the subject of the european parliament's report concerns the codification of council regulation (eec) no 2843/72 of 19 december 1972 on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of iceland. given that the proposal for codification preserves the content of the codified acts in full and merely groups them together, making only the formal changes required by the codification operation itself, and taking into account that the advisory working party of the legal services of the three european institutions recommends supporting this proposal, the european parliament, by its unanimous vote today, supports the proposal for the codification of the regulation.
in writing. the interinstitutional agreement of the european parliament, the council and the commission sets out the organisation and coordination of the european legislative process. i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation because i believe that the codification procedure confirmed by the advisory working party is an appropriate legal procedure and the proposal for a regulation does not require substantive amendments. a correlated legislative system means an effective coordination of regulatory mechanisms. the advisory working party of the legal services of the three institutions reached an agreement on the proposal for a regulation. they considered that the union should be able to take urgent measures following the work of the wto dispute settlement body with regard to anti-dumping or anti-subsidy measures and therefore proposed the codification of the texts.
in writing. — i am in favour of the proposal as it is a straightforward codification of existing texts, without any change in their substance.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the action that the union may take following a report adopted by the wto dispute settlement body on anti-dumping or anti-subsidy measures. this measure enables the european union to combat effectively and on the basis of proposals from the world trade organisation illegal, anti-dumping and anti-competitive practices.
in writing. codification of european legislative acts facilitates the understanding of european union law. this legislative procedure aims at clarifying the legislative act, but it cannot be used to introduce any substantive amendments to that act. the european institutions agreed in 1994 to use an accelerated procedure to ensure the rapid adoption of codified acts. the legislative proposal which was the subject of the european parliament's report concerns the codification of council regulation (ec) no 151/2001 on the measures that the union may take following a report adopted by the wto dispute settlement body concerning anti-dumping or anti-subsidy measures. given that the proposal for codification preserves the content of the codified acts in full and merely groups them together, making only the formal changes required by the codification operation itself, and taking into account that the advisory working party of the legal services of the three european institutions recommends supporting this proposal, the european parliament, by its unanimous vote today, supports the proposal for the codification of the regulation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on the measures that the union may adopt in respect of the combined effect of anti-dumping or anti-subsidy measures and safeguard measures, as i believe that the accelerated method for the formal codification of the legislative proposal is the most appropriate method of implementation with a view to accelerating the community legislative process. i would point out that the simple codification procedure constitutes a legal limitation which precedes any substantive amendment by the european parliament or the council, so that we ensure that the measures available to the union in the event of the combined effect of the measures referred to will be respected and implemented as such.
in writing. — i am in favour of the proposal as it is a straightforward codification of existing texts, without any change in their substance.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the measures that the union may take in respect of the combined effect of anti-dumping or anti-subsidy measures and safeguard measures. this measure enables the european union to combat effectively and on the basis of proposals from the world trade organisation illegal, anti-dumping and anti-competitive practices.
in writing. codification of european legislative acts facilitates the understanding of european union law. this legislative procedure aims at clarifying the legislative act, but it cannot be used to introduce any substantive amendments to that act. the european institutions agreed in 1994 to use an accelerated procedure to ensure the rapid adoption of codified acts. the legislative proposal which was the subject of the european parliament's report concerns the codification of council regulation (ec) no 452/2003 of 6 march 2003 on the measures that the community may adopt in respect of the combined effect of anti-dumping or anti-subsidy measures and safeguard measures. given that the proposal for codification preserves the content of the codified acts in full and merely groups them together, making only the formal changes required by the codification operation itself, and taking into account that the advisory working party of the legal services of the three european institutions recommends supporting this proposal, the european parliament, by its unanimous vote today, supports the proposal for the codification of the regulation.
in writing. this regulation applies to imports into the european union of products originating in third countries, with the exception of products which are subject to a specific import regime, and of textile products subject to a special regime. i have spoken in favour of these steps because the importance of codified texts meets the legal certainty as to the law applicable in relation to the regime concerning eu imports and contributes to a faster and more effective implementation in this respect.
in writing. — i am in favour of the proposal as it is a straightforward codification of existing texts, without any change in their substance.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on common rules for imports. the report sets out the european parliament's view on the common import regime and proposes regulations to ensure a more efficient common system.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report today because i believe that the commission's proposal, adopted in unchanged form by the committee on legal affairs in this report, is a positive one for the member states and for romania, precisely because the changes proposed by the commission do not bring about substantive changes to the original document, but only a series of changes in terms of codification. it is also very important to me that this document has received a positive opinion in the advisory working party of the legal services of the three institutions.
in writing. there are frequent situations where a european legislative act has been amended several times over the years. this creates a difficulty for the european citizen who will ultimately fail to understand what the essence of the legislative act is and which of the existing amendments is the one in force. the european commission, which has the right to initiate and propose draft legislation, has always taken on board and advocated the need for simple and clear legislation so that every european citizen can understand the legislative act and make use of the specific rights conferred on him by it. clarification of european legislation is done through a legislative procedure called codification of legislation. in order to ensure the rapid adoption of consolidated acts, the european institutions agreed in 1994 to use an accelerated procedure. the legislative proposal which was the subject of the european parliament's report concerns the codification of council regulation (ec) no 260/2009 of 26 february 2009 on common rules for imports. since the proposal for codification preserves the content of the codified acts in full and only makes changes in form, the european parliament, by its unanimous vote today, supports the proposal for the codification of the regulation.
in writing. the objective of simplifying and clarifying european union legislation is to increase coherence and facilitate access for european citizens, while at the same time providing the possibility of using certain legislative procedures. in this context, the common commercial policy is based on unitary principles which apply to the establishment of a common regime applicable to eu exports. moreover, this proposal for codification was drawn up on the basis of a computerised consolidation of the text and the acts amending it in the 22 official languages. i welcome the recommendations of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission on the common export regime.
in writing. — i am in favour of the proposal as it is a straightforward codification of existing texts, without any change in their substance.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on common rules for exports. the report sets out the european parliament's view on the common export regime and proposes regulations to ensure a more efficient common system.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report today because it supports the commission's proposal on the common export regime. this is a scheme that benefits all member states, including romania, and the fact that the document proposed by the commission does not bring about substantive changes that would jeopardise the stability of economies is a good thing; instead, it brings about changes in terms of codification. it is also very important to me that this document has received a positive opinion in the advisory working party of the legal services of the three institutions.
in writing. there are frequent situations where a european legislative act has been amended several times over the years. this creates a difficulty for the european citizen who will ultimately fail to understand what the essence of the legislative act is and which of the existing amendments is the one in force. the european commission, which has the right to initiate and propose draft legislation, has always taken on board and advocated the need for simple and clear legislation so that every european citizen can understand the legislative act and make use of the specific rights conferred on him by it. clarification of european legislation is done through a legislative procedure called codification of legislation. in order to ensure the rapid adoption of consolidated acts, the european institutions agreed in 1994 to use an accelerated procedure. the legislative proposal which was the subject of the european parliament's report concerns the codification of council regulation (ec) no 1061/2009 of 19 october 2009 establishing a common export regime. since the proposal for codification preserves the content of the codified acts in full and only makes changes in form, the european parliament, by its unanimous vote today, supports the proposal for the codification of the regulation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision on the declaration by the member states, in the interest of the european union, of acceptance of gabon's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the gabonese state deposited its instrument of accession to the 1980 convention on 6 december 2010 and the convention entered into force on 1 march 2011. the convention, which has been ratified by 86 countries to date, including all eu member states, is a measure of cooperation in international law. the convention merely provides the necessary balance between the interests of the individual and those of society in order to enforce the right to the immediate return of the illegally removed or retained child in harmony with the right to respect for family life. child safety measures are welcome, as citizens can now be protected from the dangers of child abuse.
in writing. — i strongly support the adoption of stronger cooperative measures to prevent cases of international child abduction. greater coordination between states is necessary to avoid the temptation, by one of the parents, to secure custody of a child following a separation or a divorce. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 makes it possible to resolve, at an international level, those cases in which the courts of both of the states concerned declare themselves competent and award custody of the child to the parent who is a national of their state. moreover the convention introduces a system which ensures the immediate return of abducted children. i welcome the accession of gabon to the hague convention. considering the number of eu citizens of gabonese origin, this accession is vital to ensure eu-wide protection of the children in question.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, together with all the other items on the agenda, on the acceptance by the member states, in the interest of the eu, of gabon's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the convention establishes a system of cooperation among contracting states aimed at resolving cases of international child abduction. the report refers to situations in which children are placed after divorce or separation of parents, conditions in which they can be abducted, and raises the issue of entrusting the child to one of the parents, but also determining the competent courts to resolve the case.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision on the declaration by the member states, in the interest of the european union, of acceptance of the accession of andorra to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. andorra deposited its instrument of accession to the 1980 convention on 6 april 2011 and the convention entered into force on 1 july 2011. with today's vote, the eu is open to ratification by all states that want to take part in stopping the abuses to which these fragile creatures and their parents are subjected every day. the eu's role is to defend its own citizens, and with today's vote, the eu reaffirms its concern about one of the most pressing issues in international law, namely child abduction.
in writing. — i strongly support the adoption of stronger cooperative measures to prevent cases of international child abduction. greater coordination between states is necessary to avoid the temptation, by one of the parents, to secure custody of a child following a separation or a divorce. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 makes it possible to resolve, at an international level, those cases in which the courts of both of the states concerned declare themselves competent and award custody of the child to the parent who is a national of their state. moreover the convention introduces a system which ensures the immediate return of abducted children. i welcome the accession of andorra to the hague convention. considering the number of eu citizens of andorran origin, this accession is vital to ensure eu-wide protection of the children in question.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, together with all the other items on the agenda, on the acceptance by the member states, in the interest of the eu, of andorra's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the convention establishes a system of cooperation among contracting states aimed at resolving cases of international child abduction. the report refers to situations in which children are placed after divorce or separation of parents, conditions in which they can be abducted, and raises the issue of entrusting the child to one of the parents, but also determining the competent courts to resolve the case.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision on the declaration by the member states, in the interest of the european union, of acceptance of the accession of the republic of seychelles to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. preventing child abduction is an essential part of the eu's policy to promote the rights of the child, with the european union being active at international level to improve the implementation of the 1980 hague convention and to encourage third states to accede to it. given that the republic of seychelles deposited its instrument of accession to the 1980 convention on 27 may 2008 and that the convention entered into force for seychelles on 1 august 2008, the eu member states have now fulfilled their obligation to restore a de facto status quo to the cooperation system.
in writing. — i strongly support the adoption of stronger cooperative measures to prevent cases of international child abduction. greater coordination between states is necessary to avoid the temptation, by one of the parents, to secure custody of a child following a separation or a divorce. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 makes it possible to resolve, at an international level, those cases in which the courts of both of the states concerned declare themselves competent and award custody of the child to the parent who is a national of their state. moreover the convention introduces a system which ensures the immediate return of abducted children. i welcome the accession of seychelles to the hague convention. considering the number of eu citizens of seychelles origin, this accession is vital to ensure eu-wide protection of the children in question.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, together with all the other items on the agenda, on the acceptance by the member states, in the interest of the eu, of the accession of seychelles to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the convention establishes a system of cooperation among contracting states aimed at resolving cases of international child abduction. the report refers to situations in which children are placed after divorce or separation of parents, conditions in which they can be abducted, and raises the issue of entrusting the child to one of the parents, but also determining the competent courts to resolve the case.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision on the declaration by the member states, in the interest of the european union, of acceptance of the accession of the russian federation to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the convention merely provides the necessary balance between the interests of the individual and those of society in order to enforce the right to the immediate return of the illegally removed or retained child in harmony with the right to respect for family life. the russian federation deposited its instrument of accession to the 1980 convention on 28 july 2011 and the convention entered into force on 1 october 2011. the hague convention, by voting today, provides a series of measures to mediate the immediate return of minors unlawfully removed or detained in the russian federation and provides for an obligation for administrative or judicial authorities to act swiftly in the processes of returning minors.
in writing. — i strongly support the adoption of stronger cooperative measures to prevent cases of international child abduction. greater coordination between states is necessary to avoid the temptation, by one of the parents, to secure custody of a child following a separation or a divorce. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 makes it possible to resolve, at an international level, those cases in which the courts of both of the states concerned declare themselves competent and award custody of the child to the parent who is a national of their state. moreover the convention introduces a system which ensures the immediate return of abducted children. i welcome the accession of russia to the hague convention. considering the number of eu citizens of russian origin, this accession is vital to ensure eu-wide protection of the children in question.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, together with all the other items on the agenda, on the acceptance by the member states, in the interest of the eu, of russia's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the convention establishes a system of cooperation among contracting states aimed at resolving cases of international child abduction. the report refers to situations in which children are placed after divorce or separation of parents, conditions in which they can be abducted, and raises the issue of entrusting the child to one of the parents, but also determining the competent courts to resolve the case.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision on the declaration by the member states, in the interest of the european union, of acceptance of albania's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the european union has shown over time a very strong concern for the prevention of child abduction, constantly improving the implementation of the convention. it is precisely for this reason that by depositing the instrument of accession to the 1980 convention on 4 may 2007 and the convention entering into force on 1 august 2007, the eu member states have now fulfilled their obligation to restore a de facto status quo to the cooperation system. the convention essentially re-establishes a system of cooperation between the eu and albania, whereby situations such as the illegal movement of children into that country can be easily identified and punishable. so measures to ensure the safety of children can only be salutary.
in writing. — i strongly support the adoption of stronger cooperative measures to prevent cases of international child abduction. greater coordination between states is necessary to avoid the temptation, by one of the parents, to secure custody of a child following a separation or a divorce. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 makes it possible to resolve, at an international level, those cases in which the courts of both of the states concerned declare themselves competent and award custody of the child to the parent who is a national of their state. moreover the convention introduces a system which ensures the immediate return of abducted children. i welcome the accession of albania to the hague convention. considering the number of eu citizens of albanian origin, this accession is vital to ensure eu-wide protection of the children in question.
in writing. — i voted for albania’s accession to the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction with respect to the eu’s and albania’s commitment to protect children. we know child parental abduction can prove difficult once international borders are involved. the hague convention helps alleviate issues nations face when approaching international custody rights. as albania becomes more integrated with eu society we must accept that these issues will surface from time to time. as the european parliament, accepting albania’s accession will strengthen cooperation between eu and albanian authorities. as albania continues its progress towards eu ascension, we member states must be open to humanitarian progress. i welcome albania’s accession to the hague convention as another nation willing to protect children.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, together with all the other items on the agenda, on the acceptance by the member states, in the interest of the eu, of albania's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the convention establishes a system of cooperation among contracting states aimed at resolving cases of international child abduction. the report refers to situations in which children are placed after divorce or separation of parents, conditions in which they can be abducted, and raises the issue of entrusting the child to one of the parents, but also determining the competent courts to resolve the case.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision on the declaration by the member states, in the interest of the european union, of acceptance of the accession of the republic of singapore to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. these child safety measures are welcome, as citizens can now be protected from the dangers of child abuse. the convention, which has been ratified by 86 countries to date, including all eu member states, is a measure of cooperation in international law. given that the republic of singapore deposited its instrument of accession to the 1980 convention on 28 december 2010 and that the convention entered into force on 1 march 2008, the eu member states have now fulfilled their obligation to restore a de facto status quo to the cooperation system.
in writing. — i strongly support the adoption of stronger cooperative measures to prevent cases of international child abduction. greater coordination between states is necessary to avoid the temptation, by one of the parents, to secure custody of a child following a separation or a divorce. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 makes it possible to resolve, at an international level, those cases in which the courts of both of the states concerned declare themselves competent and award custody of the child to the parent who is a national of their state. moreover the convention introduces a system which ensures the immediate return of abducted children. i welcome the accession of singapore to the hague convention. considering the number of eu citizens of singaporean origin, this accession is vital to ensure eu-wide protection of the children in question.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, together with all the other items on the agenda, on the acceptance by the member states, in the interest of the eu, of the accession of the republic of singapore to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the convention establishes a system of cooperation among contracting states aimed at resolving cases of international child abduction. the report refers to situations in which children are placed after divorce or separation of parents, conditions in which they can be abducted, and raises the issue of entrusting the child to one of the parents, but also determining the competent courts to resolve the case.
in writing. the kingdom of morocco deposited its instrument of accession to the 1980 convention on 9 march 2010 and the convention entered into force on 1 june 2010. the hague convention, which was voted today in the ep, provides a series of measures for the kingdom of morocco to mediate the immediate return of minors who have been unlawfully moved or detained in that country, and provides for an obligation for administrative or judicial authorities to act swiftly in the return of minors. i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision on the declaration by the member states, in the interest of the european union, of acceptance of the accession of the kingdom of morocco to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. these child safety measures are welcome, as citizens can now be protected from the dangers of child abuse. the convention, which has so far been ratified by 86 countries, including all eu member states, is a measure of cooperation in international law.
in writing. — i strongly support the adoption of stronger cooperative measures to prevent cases of international child abduction. greater coordination between states is necessary to avoid the temptation, by one of the parents, to secure custody of a child following a separation or a divorce. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 makes it possible to resolve, at an international level, those cases in which the courts of both of the states concerned declare themselves competent and award custody of the child to the parent who is a national of their state. moreover the convention introduces a system which ensures the immediate return of abducted children. i welcome the accession of morocco to the hague convention. considering the number of eu citizens of moroccan origin, this accession is vital to ensure eu-wide protection of the children in question.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, together with all the other items on the agenda, concerning the acceptance by the member states, in the interest of the eu, of the accession of the kingdom of morocco to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the convention establishes a system of cooperation among contracting states aimed at resolving cases of international child abduction. the report refers to situations in which children are placed after divorce or separation of parents, conditions in which they can be abducted, and raises the issue of entrusting the child to one of the parents, but also determining the competent courts to resolve the case.
in writing. preventing child abduction is an essential part of the eu's policy to promote the rights of the child, with the european union being active at international level in improving and implementing the 1980 convention. at the same time, the eu has continuously pursued a policy of encouraging third states to accede to this convention. i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision on the declaration by the member states, in the interest of the european union, of acceptance of the accession of armenia to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. armenia deposited its instrument of accession to the 1980 convention on 1 march 2007 and the convention entered into force on 1 june 2007. today, eu member states have practically fulfilled their obligation to restore a status quo to the cooperation system.
in writing. — i strongly support the adoption of stronger cooperative measures to prevent cases of international child abduction. greater coordination between states is necessary to avoid the temptation, by one of the parents, to secure custody of a child following a separation or a divorce. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 makes it possible to resolve, at an international level, those cases in which the courts of both of the states concerned declare themselves competent and award custody of the child to the parent who is a national of their state. moreover the convention introduces a system which ensures the immediate return of abducted children. i welcome the accession of armenia to the hague convention. considering the number of eu citizens of armenian origin, this accession is vital to ensure eu-wide protection of the children in question.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, together with all the other items on the agenda, on the acceptance by the member states, in the interest of the eu, of armenia's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the convention establishes a system of cooperation among contracting states aimed at resolving cases of international child abduction. the report refers to situations in which children are placed after divorce or separation of parents, conditions in which they can be abducted, and raises the issue of entrusting the child to one of the parents, but also determining the competent courts to resolve the case.
in writing. i voted for this report because it strengthens once again the rules on the participation of european union citizens in european elections, both as candidates and as voters. the report also refers to the whole procedure for communicating the names of the candidates elected in the european elections, the legal framework governing the verification of their credentials, the way in which the statements they must make upon taking office are made, the resolution of disputes that may arise as a result of non-compliance with certain principles relating to the voting system in each member state (for example, non-compliance with quotas, where alternation between men and women is required on lists, etc.), and the deprivation of the right to vote and the exercise of electoral rights, which in some countries such as cyprus, denmark, malta, ireland and the united kingdom are different from those in most member states.
in writing. the high number of accidents involving non-resident drivers indicates that cross-border exchange of road traffic information needs to become a necessity. a common internal market entails rights and obligations assumed by all citizens of the union. thus, drivers of other nationalities must be treated equally, regardless of where they are. access to a central database, which should not only cover deviations from traffic or parking rules, is essential. there are many cases where, following accidents in another state, the authorities are faced with the problem of identifying the domicile of the parties involved. i believe that the strengthening of the common system for verifying the validity of insurance policies should also be taken into account. i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive because i am convinced that the exchange of data on traffic offences will help to reduce the number of offences and improve safety on public roads.
in writing. i support the rapporteur's position that parliament should adopt a new directive on cross-border road fines in due course, in order to avoid a legal vacuum but also to guarantee the highest possible level of road safety in the member states. on the other hand, even citizens, who are generally unhappy when they receive a notification of a traffic offence, also consider it a positive thing that all eu citizens will be treated equally, regardless of where the vehicle is registered. it should also be borne in mind that the directive aims to achieve the objective of reducing the number of deaths caused by road accidents by 50% by 2020.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because its stated objectives are to support citizens and road users in the union by improving the cross-border exchange of information on road traffic offences and by improving cooperation between the relevant authorities. the new directive, which retains much of the content of directive 2011/82/eu, aims to reduce the number of deaths by 50% by 2020, in addition to the objective of the old directive to reduce the number of injuries from road traffic accidents by 40% by 2020.
in writing. the senegalese commercial port of dakar is of international importance due to its geographical position. the ec negotiated, on the basis of a mandate from the council, on behalf of the eu, the renewal of the agreement between the government of the republic of senegal and the eec on fishing off the coast of senegal, which entered into force on 1 june 1981 (renewed in 2002 and expired in 2006), and of a protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and the financial contribution. on 25 april 2014, the negotiators initialled a new draft agreement and protocol which complies with the common fisheries policy (cfp) regulation for sustainable fisheries partnership agreements (sfps). i support the conclusion by the council of the agreement and protocol ((12812/14 c8-0276/2014 senegal 2014/0238 ((nle)) aimed at creating a new framework for cooperation between the european union and the republic of senegal, which will ensure: reasonable economic conditions taking into account available fishing opportunities, a basis for the conservation and sustainable exploitation of the relevant fish stocks, adequate support and sufficient conditions for the local fisheries sector, and the opportunity to develop the local fishing industry in partnership with eu vessels and to supply the eu market with quality fishery products.
in writing. — senegal is a key trading partner for the european union for a number of reasons including its strategic location and its efforts in the fight against illegal fishing. i support full commitment by the eu to promote our bilateral agreements. i consequently welcome, eight years after expiration of the last protocol, adoption of this new protocol to allow 38 vessels, fishing mainly tuna, to once again operate in the senegalese eez, subject to eur 8 690 000 of compensation over the duration of the protocol. the protocol is in strict compliance with the principles of sustainability and good governance and will provide an opportunity to develop the local fishing industry in partnership with the eu vessels. additionally it will provide the eu market with quality fish products and will not add excessive pressure on the fish stocks. i am convinced that its implementation is in the interests of both parties.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because the new protocol between the republic of senegal and the european union has created a new framework for economic cooperation, which is beneficial for both partners. the new partnership commits the eu to employing 20% of senegalese or acp seamen on vessels fishing in senegalese waters, thus also contributing to the increase in the number of jobs in that region. the satellite monitoring of vessels will also help local authorities to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report today not because it is my report, but because this type of sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and third countries is a step forward. this new type of agreement is based on the new common fisheries policy, is developed and can be changed in line with the latest scientific information on fish stocks, provides for ways in which such agreements can help the labour market and industry in third countries, and, not least, can be suspended and/or terminated for breaches of commitments to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, and/or human rights violations. these guidelines should be part of all future sustainable fisheries agreements between the eu and third countries, and i hope that this will happen.
in writing. fisheries relations between the european union and the republic of senegal date back to 1981. however, no protocols in this area have been concluded or revised since 2006, leading to a stagnation of these relations. the renewal of the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement was therefore necessary. the new agreement repeals and replaces the existing agreement and has as its main objective to provide an updated framework which takes into account the priorities of the reformed common fisheries policy. the agreement is accompanied by a protocol setting out the fishing opportunities for european union vessels in senegalese waters. the european parliament report supports the conclusion of this partnership agreement, stressing that its signature will be of particular benefit to both the european union and the republic of senegal. eu-flagged vessels will thus be able to increase their economic activity in the region, new jobs will be created both in the republic of senegal and in the european union, and the fishing industry will benefit and develop from this new partnership. i voted in favour of this report.
mr president, i voted for this because we must condemn the use of torture by all means. those methods cannot be tolerated. moreover, they fail to prevent terrorist attacks. the climate of impunity regarding the cia programme still represents a menace towards the values of justice, equity and dignity on which our societies are built. we cannot forget that the concepts of democracy, human rights and rule of law are the core priorities of our society and that the issue of security should not put our values aside. member states must conduct independent, in-depth and impartial investigations on these allegations on transportation and illegal detention of prisoners in european countries in order to establish if there have been instances of complicity by some persons and to cooperate in fining and prosecuting the perpetrators of human rights violations.
in writing. i voted against this resolution because its content has moved very far from what was originally intended. the debate on the same subject last year would have been enough to raise an alarm about the values of fundamental human rights and freedoms that the european union defends today, given the excessive politicization of this subject. cia detention centers are a reality that cannot be disputed. but we must not lose sight of the fact that the information we have on what happened in these prisons is contained in a report presented to the us senate, but not owned by all political forces, and there are doubts about its contents. beyond the certainty of what happened, torture and degrading and inhuman treatment cannot be accepted in any democratic society. to do otherwise would only turn the victims into stones, and their guilt would be no less. states around the world need to be concerned about the safety of their citizens so that events like the one in new york in 2001, or the one in paris in 2015, never happen again.
in writing. together with the epp group i voted against this resolution. i am absolutely against torture and at the same time i condemn the death of over 3,000 people in the terrorist attacks of september 11, 2001. but the solution is not to point fingers at the american authorities, nor to treat them with superiority, hiding behind a cardboard screen behind which human rights are also being violated in europe. i want to remind everyone that we are at a crucial moment, the negotiations on the transatlantic treaty must be completed by the end of this year. the recent events in paris have demonstrated that we must find together a common strategy and methods to fight terrorism. i insist that we strengthen cooperation with the united states at this time. we want to be partners with them, but we are adopting a resolution with a similar content to an earlier resolution on the same subject. it's not the right solution. in addition, the u.s. senate has found and condemned acts of torture, so they are publicly debated to never happen again. i suggest we focus on what we have to do from now on.
in writing. i voted against this resolution for the following reasons: i do not think that in the current international context it is necessary, urgent or relevant to set up another commission of inquiry into cia detention centres. the us authorities are investigating and prosecuting violations of law committed under the cia's rendition and secret detention programme and have shown a willingness to cooperate with all requests from member states in this regard. member states' investigations into allegations of human rights violations in the cia programme must be based on legal evidence and respect for national judicial systems and applicable european law. i welcome the decrees issued by the us presidency ensuring that the us complies with national and international legislation prohibiting torture and cruel, degrading and inhuman treatment. i believe that the report of the us senate select committee on intelligence is a positive step in addressing the criticisms of the programme and demonstrates the willingness of the democratic political system to publicly and honestly take responsibility for the activities of the cia. it is absurd that in the current international context we do not understand the need to be united in the fight against terrorism and in the face of the danger posed by the ukrainian conflict.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution, which follows the publication in december of the us senate report, which revealed that in several eu member states, the authorities, as well as security and intelligence agents, had allegedly collaborated with the cia for its secret detention and extraordinary rendition programme.
in writing. — the european parliament has managed to produce a good document and i have voted in favour of it. the european union in general, and romania in particular, where i have led the investigation committee, needs to preserve a firm safeguard of our laws and values. at the same time, we want to maintain good cooperation with the usa, as long as it is understood that in the future their intelligence services will take more care to respect those values of ours.
mr president, i fully support tackling terrorism at its roots through a preventive, comprehensive and holistic approach. the best way to prevent these attacks is not through torture and violation of human rights but through education and social policies that avoid racism and other pretexts for exclusion. i do not believe that the fight against terrorism should undermine our principles of freedom of movement, human rights and the rule of law. i would like to highlight the need to share databases and intelligence on terrorism and exchange information between member states. this proposal, stated in the resolution, should be carried out without delay, as well as the creation of an anti-terrorism european intelligence agency to better counter potential terrorist attacks. that is why i voted for it.
in writing. security is one of the rights guaranteed by the eu charter of fundamental rights. the union is facing a constantly evolving terrorist threat which, over the last decade, has severely affected a number of member states in attacks that have targeted both human beings and the values and freedoms on which the union is founded. an estimated 3,500 to 5,000 eu citizens left their homes to become foreign fighters as war and violence erupted in syria, iraq and libya. in order to strengthen the security of our citizens, to defend the fundamental values of freedom, democracy and human rights, to respect international law, i support the need for a multidimensional approach to preventing and combating terrorism, as terrorism is a global threat that needs to be addressed at local, national, european and global levels. they also support measures to tackle the root causes of terrorism and radicalisation leading to violent extremism, the implementation and review of existing law enforcement measures, eu internal security and eu law enforcement capabilities, such as the adoption of an eu external strategy to combat international terrorism.
in writing. i believe that a key dimension of the fight against terrorism must be the development of policies aimed at protecting and supporting victims and their families, and therefore i believe that all member states must properly implement the rules on the rights, support and protection of victims of crime, thereby supporting citizens' fundamental right to security and freedom.
in writing. i support the resolution calling on the eu to promote an international partnership against terrorism and to cooperate with regional actors to counter the terrorist threat - from tackling the causes and preventing radicalisation, to annihilating sources of funding and training opportunities. the counter-terrorism strategy must, in my view, be based on a more intensive exchange of information and operational cooperation between national authorities to stop the movement of terrorism suspects and the illicit trafficking of arms. particular attention is needed to combat terrorist propaganda and recruitment online, which is why i support the call for internet operators and communication platform operators to cooperate with the competent authorities, as terrorist organisations increasingly use the internet for communication and planning attacks. i believe that the new roadmap that the european parliament is asking the commission and the council to adopt to combat terrorism must set out a common european strategy to respond to the terrorist threat. in this regard, it is urgent to close the legislative and operational loopholes that facilitate the flow of jihadist fighters. it is worrying that only 50% of information on terrorism and organised crime is reported by eu countries to eurojust and europol. i therefore support the creation of a european counter-terrorism platform within europol.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on counter-terrorism measures. i support the adoption of a european strategy against radical networks, online recruitment and terrorist propaganda. we must insist on combating the financing of money laundering and organised crime by these groups. furthermore, we need to ask internet and online communications companies to cooperate with governments, law enforcement and civil society to combat the use of internet and social networks for terrorist attack preparation, while ensuring that freedom of expression and the right to privacy are respected. i agree that we must not give up the schengen area, but we must encourage member states to strengthen document and person checks in suspicious cases, to use data on persons from the schengen information system and to carry out fact-based checks when suspicious persons enter or leave the european union. romania protects the union's external border for some 2 000 km, thus playing a vital role in protecting union citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution for the following reasons. eu citizens need, now more than ever, a coherent counter-terrorism strategy with concrete, immediately applicable measures that are profoundly proactive rather than reactive in addressing conflicts. such a strategy must also address the root causes of radicalisation and combat poverty, marginalisation, discrimination, corruption. it is necessary for member states to invest in education, rehabilitation, integration, social inclusion, dialogue, equality, tolerance and understanding between different cultures and religions. i welcome and support the ep's commitment to work towards the finalisation of a single passenger list directive by the end of 2015 at the latest. this instrument will allow for an efficient exchange of relevant information and enhanced border controls. the adoption of the updated eu legal framework for combating money laundering, the implementation of which will lead to the blocking of important sources of funding for terrorist organisations, is welcomed. i would stress that the lack of concrete, coordinated and effective cooperation involving all relevant actors - member states, european and national intelligence and police structures - will lead to an unprecedented scale of activity by terrorist organisations.
in writing. this resolution was in response to the growing need to try to eradicate the scourge called terrorism. recent events in paris have shown that the european union is facing a constantly evolving terrorist threat. i voted for this resolution because it underlines the need to tackle the root causes of terrorism and radicalisation leading to violent extremism, but also to maintain the eu's internal security and law enforcement capabilities, while adopting an eu external strategy to combat international terrorism.
in writing. — i have voted for the best possible text of this very important resolution. the spectre of terrorism is hanging now more than ever over the eu and we have to have the vision and courage to take all needed measures, at home and abroad, to prevent and combat such acts and persons, while at the same time safeguarding that which makes up the essence of europe, our values, liberties and rights.
in writing. the advent of the internet has revolutionized traditional communication models. unfettered access to information has brought numerous economic benefits and contributed to technological progress. the inventor of the world wide web, tim bernes-lee, argued that the internet was more of a social creation, designed to help people work together. the social impact created by non-discriminatory access to knowledge and the availability of a global information resource has at the same time required more responsibility and transparency in the use of the internet. i believe that the renewal of the mandate of the internet governance forum would provide more confidence to users and guarantee the veracity of information content. strengthening the security of cyber infrastructure will contribute to the development of electronic commerce and strengthen consumers' secure access to electronic transactions. i support the resolution on the renewal of the mandate of this forum, as i am convinced that through its mandate it will provide solutions for the stability and security of the internet.
in writing. the internet governance forum (igf) has the role and function to discuss a wide range of internet governance issues and, where appropriate, to make recommendations to the international community, based on the mandate given by the world summit on the information society (wsis) on the organisation of forums for democratic, transparent and multilateral political dialogue. i would stress that the fruitful exchanges that took place within the igf provide practical lessons, particularly on the regulatory aspects of electronic communications and on data security and privacy issues. i support the renewal of the igf's mandate by the un general assembly and the strengthening of its resources, as well as the need for a coordinated european position on internet governance, namely strengthening the sustainability of the multilateral model by making national, regional and international actors and processes more inclusive, transparent and accountable.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the renewal of the mandate of the internet governance forum, which is a multi-stakeholder forum for policy dialogue on issues of internet governance. although the renewal of the mandate is a consensual subject, i must emphasise the importance of the work of this institution. it promotes open and transparent discussions between stakeholders from all over the world, and facilitates a common understanding of how to maximise internet opportunities and address risks and challenges that may arise. it is important for the european parliament to continue to participate with a substantial delegation in future meetings.
in writing. — the internet has already transformed the world, but i am convinced that transformation is only at its very beginning. future regulation must make sure the internet remains open and truly global (i.e. not ‘nationalised’). its management should therefore be dealt with accordingly. with this in mind, i supported this resolution extending the mandate of the internet governance forum (igf) to continue guiding the development of the ‘net’. i hope that in a un-sanctioned setting (as is this wide forum – the igf) the global character of the internet will be preserved, and the process of thinking about its future will be marked by inclusiveness, transparency and accountability.
in writing. we welcome and vote for this resolution which comes to underline once again the importance of the role of the internet both globally and in the lives of each of us. the internet is a fundamental pillar of the digital single market, thus contributing to the development of the economy, trade, cultural exchanges, human interaction, but also democracy and access to information, as one of the rights of a modern, progressive and democratic society.
in writing. the objective of the internet governance forum (igf) is to fulfil the mandate of the world summit on the information society (wsis) in terms of organising forums for democratic, transparent and multilateral political dialogue. the main role and function of the igf is to discuss a wide range of internet governance issues and, where appropriate, to make recommendations to the international community. in 2015, the igf's mandate will expire, and the un must therefore renew its mandate to allow the internet governance forum to continue its role. i stress the need for a strong igf to reach a compromise between stakeholders and to support an independent, inclusive and neutral internet. the resolution supports net neutrality, worldwide internet access, support for online and offline rights, and expresses concern about the attitude of some states that censor and restrict internet access. i would stress that parliament should continue to participate in future igf meetings with a substantial delegation in order to contribute effectively to the formulation, together with the member states and the commission, of an eu approach to internet governance.
in writing. the internet has become an extremely important element of innovation, economic growth, trade, democracy, cultural diversity and human rights in today's society. the figures show that the internet is currently contributing about 4% to european gdp, and by the end of next year it will be contributing almost 6%. if we add to these concrete figures the fact that the internet has become an essential means of spreading democracy, of defending fundamental human rights, which cannot be translated into concrete figures, but is extremely important, it becomes all the more relevant why it is important to renew the mandate of the internet governance forum. there is a direct link, as seen in some countries, between internet access and the level of democracy and the rule of law. the internet governance forum can help increase internet access worldwide, which will directly lead to increased democracy in these countries. the forum's mission is to continue its efforts to ensure the legal protection of net neutrality, which is an indispensable condition for guaranteeing freedom of information and expression, stimulating economic growth and employment, by developing innovation and business opportunities related to the internet.
the report from the commission to the european parliament and the council on the mandatory indication of the country of origin or place of provenance of meat used as an ingredient led me to vote in favour of this resolution. according to that report, the existing traceability systems in the european union are not adequate for the transmission of information on origin along the food chain. it is also underlined that 90% of the consumer respondents believe that the indication of origin on the product label is important. food safety must be a major concern for all actors involved in this process, and the lack of effective regulation to ensure clear traceability of the products that reach everyone's tables is a threat to our health. consumer distrust automatically generates a decrease in product consumption which will have a major negative impact on both large and small processors. we're all going to have to lose. clear legislation in this area is a safety belt for healthy living! let's not forget that before we are politicians, we are consumers.
in writing. the report from the commission to the european parliament and the council on the mandatory indication of the country of origin or place of provenance of meat used as an ingredient led me to vote in favour of this resolution. according to this report, the existing traceability systems in the eu are not adequate for the transmission of origin information along the food chain. it is also underlined that 90% of the consumer respondents believe that the indication of origin on the product label is important. food safety must be a major concern for all actors involved in this process, and the lack of effective regulation to ensure clear traceability of the products that reach everyone's tables is a threat to our health. consumer distrust automatically generates a decrease in product consumption which will have a major negative impact on both large and small processors. we're all going to have to lose. clear legislation in this area is a safety belt for a healthy life! let's not forget that before we are politicians, we are consumers.
in writing. according to a commission survey of smes, most of them change suppliers three or more times a year in order to guarantee the required level of raw materials and quality at an affordable price. i consider that the mandatory indication of the country of origin on the label would lead to an increase in the administrative burden for smes and a significant increase in production costs, as well as an increase in price pressure for farmers, 90% of which would be imposed on consumers.
in writing. a measure that generated heated debate within all political groups. i voted against the idea that the producers of a sausage should be obliged to list all the countries in which the meat used in that sausage was produced (for example). why would you do that? not to unfairly help industry avoid costs, at the expense of consumer misinformation, as some colleagues would say, quick to conclude. but to protect romania from stupid (and unmerited) prejudices, as was the case with horse meat, when not romanian producers cheated, but the label was hungerily glued to romania, as a kind of natural location of fraud. food safety and hygiene rules must be complied with by any producer in the eu, with or without the origin label. and if a producer wants to label the origin of the meat used, he can do so, voluntarily, without any hindrance, developing a direct and special link with his consumers. we're talking about protectionism masked behind some big talk about the consumer. the debate in plenary made almost clear the equal sign between origin and quality, and origin and fraud. which is unfair.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution, which was born of the need and desire of consumers to be correctly informed about the composition of processed foods in the meat products they consume, but also as a result of the recent scandals caused by the fraudulent substitution of beef for horse meat. country of origin labelling will become mandatory for unprocessed meat from pigs, sheep, goats and poultry from april 2015, and will become mandatory throughout the eu following the presentation by the ec of legislative proposals on the country of origin labelling of meat in processed foods.
in writing. the ep resolution on the indication of the country of origin on the labelling of meat in processed foods is necessary because it defends several principles indispensable for a healthy and transparent system in public nutrition: correct and transparent consumer information, eliminating fraud from the system and above all ensuring the public health of europeans at all costs. at the same time, i do not believe that mandatory labelling should be a process that is implemented abruptly, without giving smes in the meat industry time to adapt to the new requirements. my votes on the resolution and the amendments to it respected the principles i have mentioned above, but at the same time they were aimed at protecting consumers throughout europe from the uncontrollable price increases that the sudden implementation of mandatory labelling may have. in this respect, and as my vote reflects, i believe that voluntary labelling of products, including the country of origin, for a buffer period of time is the optimal solution to this problem. i am in favour of greater transparency and of correct information for consumers, but i do not believe that we should subject processed meat producers and traders to immediate additional costs, which are reflected in the final price of the products supplied.
in writing. the deterioration of the situation in the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) countries has created new concerns about the political and humanitarian situation in several acp regions. this text calls on the jpa to continue to monitor the situation in the acp countries in crisis and to pay more attention to the sensitive cadres in these countries. the acp states and the eu also called for a coordinated response to the ebola outbreak in west africa. i voted in favour of this report because conflict prevention and resolution, as well as regional integration and cooperation, are essential to a better acp-eu partnership and investment relationship.
in writing. — cooperation between parties is vital to achieve the objectives of the european development fund and to ensure european policy coherence on political, economic and environmental issues. the acp-eu joint assembly has become a key player in acp-eu relations and cooperation and plays a fundamental role in achieving common understanding and agreement on issues of mutual concern. it brings more democracy to the dialogue between states and i therefore deplore declining participation by eu member states in this conference. eu member states should be fully committed in this open, democratic and comprehensive dialogue. this is why i believe we need to strengthen this dialogue, especially with the aim of achieving a strong common position in light of the conference in paris next november. the long-lasting cooperation between the eu and the acp states on the issue of adaptation and mitigation responses should be reflected in the burden-sharing of goals in the agreement. i truly hope that the resolutions and other decisions taken by the assembly will be fully implemented.
in writing. the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) joint parliamentary assembly (acppa) the eu, established by the cotonou agreement, is a multi-parliamentary assembly in which acp and eu countries are in a partnership on equal terms. i voted for this resolution because the acp-eu partnership agreement is a framework in which discussions between acp and european parliamentarians take place in an open, sincere and constructive manner in order to implement the objectives set out in the cotonou agreement. the resolution also stresses the need to strengthen political dialogue and to continue post-cotonou the analysis of both positive and negative aspects of the sustainable socioeconomic development of the acp countries, so that no acp country is disadvantaged in this framework.
in writing. the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly has succeeded in establishing itself as a key player in the relations and cooperation of the african, caribbean and pacific states with the european union. it remains a very practical tool for monitoring political, economic and social developments in the acp states. the common objectives set are of paramount importance development of the acp states, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, democracy based on the rule of law and transparent and accountable governance, essential conditions for development. acp-eu cooperation is based on a common legal system and the existence of common institutions. it is welcome that the jpa provides a framework for open and democratic dialogue between european parliamentarians and parliamentarians from african, caribbean and pacific states. this is an area with difficult and controversial issues, and the existence of a frank and open dialogue with the eu can only produce beneficial effects among the acp states. the living standards, democracy and highly complex social issues in the acp countries make cooperation with the european union essential.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, while welcoming your speech and fully agreeing with what my distinguished colleague elmar brok from the epp said, it is true that today we are facing the greatest humanitarian crisis of the modern era. never before have so many millions of people been subjected to violence of all kinds on such a scale over such a long period of time and with consequences difficult to assess. in syria, after assad's violence against his own people, there was the violence of da'esh (islamic state) against a population that was forced to leave their homes and live in refugee conditions. in iraq, millions of people have been confronted with the consequences of war. this year alone, over 1.8 million people have been affected by the intervention of daesh, but, we have to admit, there are also our mistakes, the mistakes of the west, in the way we have strategically approached or failed to approach this region strategically, at least in terms of our own interests. in the face of so many tragedies, our words can't help much, but they can help the european commission and the international community to do three things that i think are essential: a strategy for stabilising the region where local and regional actors are vital, as my distinguished colleague from the epp, mr brok, said, we have to think beyond prejudices and clichés, that local and regional actors are essential in stabilising, an urgent strategy to deal with the desperate needs of the population in refugee conditions and three, a strategy for the post-conflict development of this area, which risks becoming a real humanitarian desert.
blue-card question. – in fact, mr couso, it seems that you are greatly missing mr saddam hussein. you are missing a dictator who invaded a neighbour. is it possible, after all this time, for somebody in this parliament which supports democracy, rule of law, human rights, etc. to miss saddam hussein and attack in such a manner the intervention of the western countries in iraq? is that possible?
on behalf of the epp group. i congratulate you, commissioner, on your involvement in this unprecedented humanitarian crisis. the atrocities committed by isis have led to the tragedy of millions of people. this wave of refugees will not stop here, there will be many more who will flee conflict zones, and we have a duty to support them with food, shelter and medical care. but we must not forget the support that is needed by the countries in the region, the countries that are hosting refugees, such as lebanon and jordan. but to solve the humanitarian crisis, we need to deal seriously and coordinatedly with the terrorist threat. let us now take urgent, concrete and firm action in the fight against terrorism. for too long, our response in the region has been just a reaction and we're not proactive. how will these refugees be reintegrated into society? how can we help build infrastructure that civilians in syria and iraq can live in, how do we make sure that these conflicts don't reoccur? the immediate priority is indeed to provide assistance to refugees, but also to develop such a plan for a sustainable future in the region.
mr president, almost everything has been said about the humanitarian situation. i would like to touch upon two elements that need to be addressed just as urgently as humanitarian needs if we want to ensure that the region will still house its rich mosaic of peoples in the years to come. first of all, heritage sites need to be protected immediately. through the destruction of heritage, the identities and histories of minorities and communities are erased. peoples’ identities and claims that they have a right to be there are tied to the presence of monuments and religious-historical buildings which stand as proof of their presence in the land. it is also documented that is partially funds its operations through looting and selling archaeological artefacts. secondly, the issue of the disputed territories urgently needs to be addressed if we wish to see the future of iraq taking place within the internationally agreed borders. had diplomatic efforts succeeded in the past, there would not have been the current stalemate between erbil and baghdad, and is might have been defeated earlier because of increased trust and joint operations between the two parties.
mr president, the advance of jihadist fighters across a wide band of territory in syria and iraq has fuelled a massive humanitarian crisis in the region which, i might say, is unprecedented. fighters from islamic state – which we should always call daesh because they are not a state – in iraq and syria are terrorising the civilian populations and persecuting religious and ethnic minorities. the situation in iraq is part of the larger crisis unfolding in the region mainly as a result of syria’s civil war. civilians continue to be displaced, as a result of the conflict, to refugee camps where they often have to deal with a shortage of food and medicine. a resolution of the humanitarian crisis requires not only the military defeat of daesh in iraq and syria, but also a political solution that creates a cross-sectarian coalition against jihadism. i could say that, in order to have a final positive result, the coalition should also address the interests of the sunni iraqi groups and tribes that have aligned with daesh and should garner the support of regional powers like iran and saudi arabia.
i have received seven motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 123 (2), the vote will take place tomorrow and the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative on the situation in yemen (2015/2557 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. - mr president, honourable members, i am grateful for the opportunity to discuss the situation in yemen with you today. yemen occupies a strategic position along the gulf of aden and the red sea. every day, hundreds of ships headed to europe pass through the bab-el-mandeb strait. terrorist organisations like al-qaeda in the arabian peninsula (aqap) increasingly represent a direct threat to european citizens. it is in our own interest to stand by the aspirations of the yemeni people for a stable and accountable state, preserving the territorial integrity of the country. when we look back four years ago, yemen initiated a remarkable transition process, with people taking to the streets calling for dignity, social justice, and their legitimate political and socio-economic rights. ever since, the eu has stood by yemen and its people, fully supporting its demands for democratic legitimacy, accountable and participatory public institutions, and a better life for all. yemenis look to the eu to continue supporting their aspirations, at a moment when the promises of the ‘arab uprisings’ are in danger of being forgotten. today, yemen’s transition is at grave risk. its daring economic and fiscal difficulties and persisting security challenges are now coupled with the danger that expeditious solutions might lead the country to more turmoil and to the collapse of state authority. the intensification of terrorist attacks in yemen, including by al-qaida in the arabian peninsula (aqap), cannot be left unchecked. we condemn such terrorist attacks in the strongest terms and reiterate our firm commitment and enduring support to the efforts of the yemeni authorities and of the international community to tackle terrorist violence, in yemen and the broader region. terrorists can only benefit from the weakening of state authority in yemen. the last two weeks have proved decisive for the balance of power in sana’a, with what some would qualify as the final takeover of state institutions by the houthis after the seizure of the presidential palace. in response to what they deemed unacceptable pressure on the executive, the president and the entire cabinet of prime minister bahah resigned on 22 january, de facto putting the whole yemeni transition in jeopardy. we consider that the so-called constitutional declaration unilaterally issued by the houthis last friday has no legitimacy. we now call on all political forces, in particular the houthis, to take clear responsibility for their actions, starting by unequivocally rejecting violence and coercion as political tools. undermining state institutions will only result in further instability, to the detriment of all yemenis. the attacks on officials and the restriction on the movements of president hadi, prime minister bahah and a number of other ministers are clearly unacceptable. but current developments should not be seen in isolation. they are partly the result of initial flaws in the design of the transition – which largely kept traditional power structures untouched. inaction and lack of resolve on the part of the executive and traditional political parties, and enduring attempts to undermine the transition process by spoilers, chiefly led by ex-president saleh, have also been key factors in leading yemen to the current impasse. there is no other way out of the current crisis than genuine dialogue and an inclusive political process, and we hope that the announcement of the resumption of broad consultations between yemeni parties under the auspices of the un on monday will bear fruit. any long-term solution should address the underlying causes of instability, which are deeply rooted in local historical and socio-economic power-structure. the real test case will be whether yemeni parties are ready to work together constructively to foster a compromise, safeguarding the transition’s objectives. we also call on all regional actors to contribute positively to this process. it is critical for the international community to retain its unity, in order to safeguard the foundations of the yemeni transition and restore stability, while preserving yemen’s territorial integrity. it is our belief that the framework provided by the gulf cooperation council initiative, the outcomes of the national dialogue conference (ndc) and the peace and national partnership agreement should remain the reference points for the yemeni transition. we therefore urge all actors to work constructively towards a swift finalisation of a new constitution. this constitution should meet the legitimate aspirations of the yemeni people, reflect the ndc outcomes, and preserve the unity and territorial integrity of yemen, to which the eu is strongly attached. while undergoing dramatic developments in its political transition and facing security threats, yemen also urgently needs to tackle its economic situation. the government of prime minister bahah had presented a solid programme in this regard, and a number of courageous steps had been taken to conclude an agreement with the imf – in particular as regards lowering the fiscal burden represented by fuel subsidies. decisive actions are needed to improve fiscal sustainability and fight corruption in the public administration, in support of those most in need. the severe humanitarian crisis may further deepen if political stability is not restored. almost 16 million yemenis (more than 60% of the total population) are currently in need of humanitarian aid, including 10.6 million suffering food insecurity and 13.4 million without access to safe water and sanitation. widespread consumption of and addiction to qat – a mildly narcotic leaf – has a disastrous impact on water use, labour productivity, health and the crowding-out of food crops. eu humanitarian assistance in 2014 reached eur 124 million (including also eur 33 million from the commission). and the eu is committed to continue its support for the yemeni people. it is essential that all parties safeguard humanitarian principles and ensure humanitarian access on the ground. ladies and gentlemen, the eu stands by the yemeni people at this critical juncture and reaffirms its commitment to continue supporting yemen in its transition.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i was a member of the european parliament delegation that visited sanaa in may 2012: it was a period of optimism about the political transition. the solution that was negotiated after ten months of protests and that resulted in the departure of former president saleh with impunity and the coming to power of president hadi, then the national dialogue and finally a transitional government, made it seem that stability was guaranteed in yemen. some even said that the negotiated transition in yemen could serve as a model for other arab countries. in the last few weeks, there has been no reason for optimism in sanaa, because the opposite of the result expected two or three years ago is happening. what we see is that the model has not borne fruit, and some even say that the transition has failed completely in yemen, because the violence developed by the armed wing of the houthis shows us that, now, everything is upside down: there is no longer any legitimate authority in sanaa and we are bewildered by this terrible spiral of violence. the obvious solution: everything must go through a political process, through a constitutional referendum, through the organisation of elections and through a genuine political dialogue which is inclusive: this has always been the european view. i would like to conclude with a more general remark. this is again a shiite offensive, a movement that wants to make believe that a revolution, that a change in the state of affairs is possible, and we know very well from experience that shiite offensives lead to long-term instability.
mr president, in fact i am addressing the council about the tremendously difficult situation of yemen, a country which is falling into chaos and where different regions are breaking away from each other. this is a hugely difficult situation, taking into consideration the new training bases operated by al-qaeda and daesh in yemen. at the same time, we are seeing a new situation where the shia are taking power in yemen – the houthis. this probably could fuel the support of saudi arabia for the sunni tribes in yemen. finally, we might see a new situation, as happened in iraq when a new government in iraq could not – or would not – do the right thing to approach the sunni tribes in order to establish a national way for the country.
president-in-office of the council on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. - mr president, i very much welcome the discussion we have just had, particularly at this critical juncture, where the very existence of yemen as we know it is under threat. the coming weeks and months will be decisive in showing in which direction yemen is heading. we will monitor developments very closely. i know that our views and analysis of the situation coincide. the eu has no other option but to stay engaged in support of yemen and its transition. as we have said before, yemen’s failure would pose a direct threat to the eu, to our allies and to a broader stability in an already troubled region. when we come to answer mr kofod’s question, i would like to stress that the european union can only play a useful role if it works closely with the regional partners, namely the gulf countries and saudi arabia, and with the united nations. four years ago, yemenis courageously took to the streets to end the three-decade long rule of president saleh and called for dignity, accountability and security. the process initiated in 2011 led to an inclusive consultative process, resulting in remarkable and unprecedented recommendations. yemen has to fulfil the promises of its transition. yemen, the region and the international community cannot afford failure or the disintegration of the yemeni state, and the eu will continue to stand by yemen.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. yemen is a not-to-be-missed player in the geopolitical equation of the middle east. the transition in yemen has failed, and the political process has fallen victim to elite competition. all political forces, in particular the houthis, must take responsibility for their actions and reject violence and coercion as political tools. only a broad political consensus within the main political groups, establishing a real path towards a constitutional referendum and free elections, can offer a lasting solution to the current crisis. it is necessary for all parties to engage in genuine dialogue and engage in intensive negotiations in order to contribute to the swift finalization of a new constitution that meets the legitimate aspirations of the yemeni people.
we move on to the next item on the agenda, the council and commission statements on the eu framework for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights respectively. in this regard, allow me to invite once again secretary kalniņa-lukaševica to speak for the council (2015/2558(rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. - we have a very important debate tonight. the union is founded on values including respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy and the rule of law. these are the common values of the member states, and they are an essential element of the european union’s identity. member states have to ensure that their internal orders fully respect the rule of law and other fundamental values. the commission, parliament and the council play an important role in safeguarding these essential principles. we recognise that the european parliament plays an important role in making sure that the commission and the council carry out their duties. as you may recall, in june 2013 the council stated that respecting the rule of law is a prerequisite for the protection of fundamental rights and called on the commission to take forward the debate in line with the treaties on the possible need for and shape of a collaborative and systematic method to tackle these issues. the same month, this parliament called on the eu institutions to develop the necessary eu tools to fulfil the treaty obligations on fundamental values. the commission contributed to this debate by means of a communication in march 2014. these initiatives complemented the already-existing tools: the infringement procedure applicable in the case of a breach of eu law, and the ‘atomic bomb’ option provided by article 7 of the lisbon treaty, which allows for the suspension of voting rights in the event of a serious and persistent breach of eu values. the council discussed on several occasions how to better safeguard the rule of law in the union. in december last year the council adopted conclusions establishing an annual political dialogue among member states to promote and safeguard the rule of law within the eu. the dialogue will respect certain principles such as objectivity, non-discrimination and equal treatment. it will also respect the principle of conferred competences, and it will have to ensure an inclusive approach. this exercise will have to be based on mutual trust. the presidency will play a central role in making sure that these principles are respected throughout the debate. right now the council is working towards organising its first political debate on the rule of law in the course of this year. i am convinced that this dialogue will help us to ensure that the rule of law will continue to be a commonly-shared fundamental value underpinning this union. i thank you for your attention and am looking forward to a really good debate.
first vice-president of the commission. - mr president, the clearest way to show what the rule of law means to us in everyday life is to recall what has happened when there is no rule of law. when president eisenhower marked the first law day with these words in 1958, world war ii had been over for barely a dozen years. the memories were raw, the images and the fear etched into minds. it has now been 70 years. we commemorated the liberation of the terror camps in this very hemicycle when we last met in january. president schulz and i were at terezin only two weeks ago. seventy years, yet the alarming backdrop to this anniversary – not just the headlines but also the trends, the patterns that we see – this backdrop has come as a harsh, sobering call for vigilance. this is why i welcome this timely debate. this house’s vigilance on fundamental rights is of utmost importance. we cannot let our societies imperceptibly slip back. we cannot allow illiberal logics to take hold. there is no such thing as ‘illiberal democracy’. our union is built on a break from the past, on the principle that societies should be free and open, sheltered from arbitrariness and force. this great leap: that is what europe stands for. all too often we take all of this for granted. so i cannot repeat it often enough. there can be no europe without full respect for our common values. compromising on common values is compromising on the very fabric of european cooperation and therefore weakening it and bringing it to a standstill. the commission is dedicated to advancing fundamental rights and the rule of law. i have been entrusted by president juncker with a duty of special significance – and of huge significance to me personally: that of steering and coordinating this work. it is everyday work: mainstreaming fundamental rights is a reflex throughout the policy cycle, from inception to implementation. together with commissioners jourová and avramopoulos we form a fundamental rights project team, and i will invite other commissioners to join if necessary. our aim is to pursue with a 360-degree approach to ensure that fundamental rights are effectively enforced and protected in member states, based on information gathered on the ground. i am well aware that this house has on different occasions called for an effective and binding instrument supplementary to article 7. we can clearly all agree on the aim behind these calls, ensuring our common values are fully respected and enforced. the key issue for discussion is that of the best means to achieve this objective. to me, all institutions have important, complementary roles to play. last december the council and the member states agreed to establish an annual dialogue to that effect, and i believe that our debate today serves very much the same purpose. the commission has its own role, and in line with the treaties, in recent years it has taken firm action by exerting political pressure, but also by successfully involving the court of justice when the rule of law was threatened, for instance on the unlawful retirement of judges or on measures affecting the independence of supervisory authorities. our approach to infringements pays special attention to rule-of-law-related cases, where implementation of eu legislation raises problems of compatibility with certain aspects of the rule of law. this includes, for example, the right to an effective remedy before a tribunal, or cases where enforcement bodies have insufficient powers or independence. since december what we call the ‘ex-third pillar’ measures in police and judicial cooperation can also be subject to infringement procedures, and here, too, the commission is ready to take action. i will personally see to it that the commission acts in a non-ideological manner and assesses each case fairly and objectively, based on the facts of the case and on the law. the commission will act impartially and treats all member states equally. our purpose is not to sanction individual member states per se, but rather to address issues through targeted intervention to restore the correct application of eu law. article 7 provides for potentially far-reaching sanctions. it is not limited in scope to areas covered by eu law, but rather designed to address clear risks of a serious breach. however, past experience has shown that this instrument, which can be triggered by the commission, the european parliament or one third of member states, is not always suited to swift and effective intervention. in particular, there are situations which do not fall under the scope of eu law and cannot be said to meet the threshold of article 7, but which do raise concern regarding the respect of the rule of law in particular member states. for this reason, last march the commission established the eu rule of law framework, which sets out how the commission will react in this sort of case. it can enter into a political dialogue with the member state concerned when there is an emerging systematic threat to the rule of law, to prevent it escalating further. when such a rule-of-law crisis emerges in a member state, the framework also allows the commission to react swiftly, following an objective assessment of the situation and with full respect to the principle of equal treatment of member states. the objective is to find a solution with the member state concerned and to avoid having to trigger the mechanisms of article 7. parliament will have an important political role in supporting the commission’s efforts to convince the member state concerned to put an end to the rule-of-law crisis. parliament would be regularly informed of the progress made at each stage of the process. we are keeping a close eye on all issues arising in member states relating to the rule of law, and i will not hesitate to use the framework if required by the situation in a particular member state. let me also use this occasion to address a related issue. many of you may also wonder about the state of play concerning eu accession to the european convention on human rights, following the opinion of the court of last december. accession to the echr remains a top priority for the commission and for me personally. i strongly believe that it would lead to a further strengthening of fundamental values. however, the opinion of the court has raised a number of significant challenges, and some of them are not easy to meet – which is why i believe we need a reflection period, giving us time for consultations with stakeholders on the best way forward. though parliament has welcomed the eu rule of law framework and the annual debate in the council, i am aware that there are renewed calls to establish new additional mechanisms for the permanent and regular monitoring that the member states comply with the eu fundamental rights. my conviction and policy has always been that, if current tools do not deliver, we will have to improve them. i am always ready to reflect on how to enhance respect for our values. however, before embarking on a long discussion on possible new instruments, we must be clear on the problem at stake. can we say to our citizens that we need yet another monitoring mechanism to fight against radicalisation and extremism, or do we just need to better use the existing and recently-established tools? experience has shown that there is not so much a need for new reporting or monitoring mechanisms, but rather for the improvement of the european union’s capacity to act and intervene in certain types of crisis situations relating to the rule of law. that is why, in our view, the framework is well targeted on the key issue at stake, and much already exists in terms of reporting mechanisms and information sources on compliance with fundamental values and the rule of law in member states. numerous actors, including union institutions and agencies – particularly the fundamental rights agency (which, i must say, carries out excellent work) but also the council of europe and its venice commission, as well as many ngos – all perform regular monitoring activities and make important assessments. efforts to make this information more accessible and easier to use must certainly be encouraged. this is why i intend the annual colloquium on fundamental rights – this is something i announced in parliament at my hearing – to take place in the autumn, in october or perhaps at the beginning of november. i want all relevant stakeholders – including, of course, parliament – to take part. i would like to announce here today that i plan for the theme of this year’s colloquium to be about tolerance, namely how to prevent and combat anti-semitic, anti-muslim, anti-christian, and anti-minority hatred in our societies, which are some of the biggest challenges we face today. i hope that you will engage actively in this important event. i want it to be a visible and meaningful debate. together, by speaking up and speaking jointly, we can send a powerful political message. i think that would also mean more to our citizens than a protracted institutional debate about mechanisms because, at the end of the day, this is about societies and what binds us together: how we can combat fear – numbing fear, paralysing fear, fear of the other. that is when our common values really have a meaning – what we owe to these values, to our own history, to the future for our children and grandchildren. this is the debate and the actions that citizens expect of us.
on behalf of the epp group. jacques chevalier defined the rule of law as the type of political regime in which the power of the state is framed and limited by law. the rule of law has been and will be a major concern of any modern society, which is why values such as human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, tolerance, security and more must be the common denominator in a united europe, an open and secure europe, which is always at the service of our citizens and our businesses. these values have been and will be inalienable and imprescriptible. a stronger europe with stronger member states is a safety belt for everyone, regardless of nationality, just as an independent and efficient judiciary can boost business, investment and job creation. the existence of any deviation from these values is likely to create insecurity, which can affect our daily lives. therefore, the existence of effective mechanisms to sanction any violation of individual fundamental rights and freedoms is absolutely necessary. the more so as these values, which enshrine the rule of law, can easily be volatilized and even democracies considered to be consolidated. the european union as a whole and romania in particular have demonstrated their capacity to create mechanisms and institutions capable of guaranteeing the security of the rule of law. the current monitoring system allows for the identification and intervention of breaches of eu law at the level of each member state. however, there is still a need for closer cooperation between the european parliament, the member states, the commission and the council to strengthen justice strategies, both at national and european union level, as a guarantee of the rule of law. ) and
answer to a question asked under the 'blue card' procedure. i think that the discussion is at the level of each group, after all what happens in each country must be a concern of that country and, indeed, we must be careful at the level of the commission and the council that there are no deviations from democracy and, where they exist, to intervene.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to ask my predecessor if she is aware that in romania all national minorities have the opportunity to learn in their own language and that romania has been held up as an example of respect for the rights of national minorities throughout europe.
it is certainly welcome that the council and the commission, among the institutions of the european union, are also keen to address the problems of the rule of law in the member states. we are openly speaking here in parliament on many issues, but unfortunately experience has shown that the commission has not dealt with these issues in a meaningful way, citing a lack of competence. the council, composed of representatives of the member states, has always avoided examining individual cases. we must fight harder and harder to win the trust of our citizens, and the only way to earn that trust is to talk openly and honestly about the problems. if we are talking about democracy and the rule of law, we have to look honestly at those member states where there are serious doubts about the rule of law. if we are to enter into a dialogue on fundamental rights, not only must the council and the commission hear the views of the member states, but also, for example, the complaints of indigenous national minorities must be taken seriously by the eu bodies. simply because europe can only be truly citizens' europe if it does not sweep the needs of any social group under the carpet. i won't go into details. we know that in the field of the rights of national minorities, of indigenous national minorities, greece, france, slovakia and romania are the leaders. i believe that the rule of law dialogue can be most effective if the council and the commission try to improve the overall picture by encouraging the exchange of best practices in the member states. however, this incentive should also be openly voiced by the eu bodies, even if some member states will not be happy about it. one thing is certain: by failing to engage in genuine dialogue, the union is conceding that it cannot make any progress in the member states in the area of fundamental rights. (the intervener agrees to answer a question for a blue card under article 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
i don't think so.
first of all, what is the rule of law? citizens and those who govern them must obey the law. the rule of law also applies to the relationships between private actors in society, not just citizens and those in power. keep going. how should laws be made? how should suspected criminals be treated? how should taxes be determined and collected? all of this is part of the rule of law, because it has to be regulated by laws that have to be strictly enforced. the law, in a state of law, must always be applied equally to everyone. there are no exceptions. without the rule of law, society does not work, justice does not work, democracy does not work, the economy does not work. rule of law is the difference between dictatorship and democracy. there are no minor or major violations of the rule of law, there are violations and that's it. and every violation is a slide toward dictatorship. the rule of law also means that we must behave as the law requires. there is no rule of law when politicians change the law often because they don't like the law and it doesn't serve their own interests. that's why we have laws: so that politicians and all citizens can adapt their behavior to the law, not that politicians (because they can, right? they are in parliament or in the government) to change the law often, whenever it does not suit them. the rule of law also means that the law must be public, clear, predictable, so that everyone can adopt their own behavior towards it. parliaments have a primary responsibility for the quality, the clarity of the laws they pass.
the question is "blue cardboard". madam president, i have a question for mrs keller. my question is: how should the european union finally do this in order to differentiate between economic migrants and migrants seeking international protection?
blue-card question. – in fact, i would like to ask our colleague who has already said that frontex is not saving lives and that frontex is a border police: what is your opinion, considering you know about the cooperation between frontex and the european asylum support office?
madam president, i would like to stress that, in addition to the problems of migration and refugees in southern europe, we must increasingly look at eastern europe. the crimean crisis has put ukraine in 14th place among the countries of origin of refugees in the european union. today, mrs morvai and mr jakovčić have presented us with a real danger and a possible failure in the case of border control between hungary, a schengen member state, and serbia. this shows us that we need to pay more attention to protecting our borders and elsewhere, not just in the south. romania is an important partner in securing the eastern borders and fully fulfils the criteria for schengen accession. i think it's time that policymakers recognize this reality as well. that is why i am calling for more effort, more honesty and certainly more transparency in romania's integration process into the schengen area. i would like to stress that frontex should not mean tightening controls at a schengen border that does not include romania and bulgaria. i also ask the european commission to confirm whether or not there is a system to monitor how the funds allocated to refugee protection programmes outside europe have been used and to report back to us.
mr president, nowadays the european union is facing an unprecedented paradox in the healthcare sector. the existence of innovative new drugs, new technologies and developments in medical science that could ensure good outcomes and long-term survival on the one hand, and on the other hand many european citizens not being able to access them, mainly due to high costs. the issue of access to medicine is not only related to one innovative drug with an unusual high price but also to innovative medicines with reasonable prices, due to bureaucratic reimbursement procedures, lack of implementation of european laws such as the cross-border healthcare directive, or even due to the blocking of other important european laws such as the transparency directive. also, to finance the cost of new high-priced medicines, generic and biosimilar medicines, uptake must be used to create headroom for the healthcare budget. a major problem is that making the best use of such developments in the area of healthcare is particularly expensive and difficult, especially for some of the member states that are relatively small or low-income countries. european patients, and especially european cancer patients, rely on innovation to access new and better treatments. for many european patients, innovative treatments are the only hope to fight their disease. eu policy-makers should make sure that regulatory decisions on the value of innovative therapies are based on what matters the most to patients, namely long-term quality survival, and also to ensure access to innovative treatments following a cost-benefit analysis performed at centralised level by the ema. we should prioritise at eu and national level more investment in research into innovative therapies and find sustainable solutions for including innovative therapies in national healthcare plans, treatment pathways and funding streams.
mr. president, because of the long periods in which new drugs are protected by patents many treatments remain inaccessible to the people who desperately need them. after a drug's patent expires, its price can drop by 99 percent, an astonishing figure that suggests how much money companies make when they have a monopoly on a drug. year after year, these companies make huge profits and, in addition, demand to expand their monopoly on medicines that could improve the health of some people, many of whom lack the opportunity. this is deeply inaccurate. this is not a problem of some developing countries, but a painful reality in the european union, including romania, where the price of medicines is often too high for people or hospitals to afford. obviously, creating a drug is not an inexpensive process and indeed better research funding is needed, but it is the citizens who should benefit from the results of medical research. more transparency is needed on the real costs of research. whatever the commission's proposed actions, i will not support the extension of patents for medicines and, by implication, for high-priced medicines that people cannot afford.
mr president, the right to health is a fundamental element of the right to life enshrined in article 3 of the universal declaration of human rights. the european union and the institutions responsible must be constantly concerned that this right does not remain a mere statement in a legislative act, but on the contrary, that it is a reality of our days. the right to health also means access to medicines. the major discrepancies between the various states are absolutely unacceptable. citizens of the european union in different countries are sentenced to death by what is an unacceptably high and unaffordable price for medicines, which is inhuman. the pharmaceutical industry must understand that it needs a partnership with the european citizen, without which it could not exist. member states should consider creating a framework within which all citizens who pay for health insurance, but not only, have access to quality, prompt and efficient health services. the european parliament, the council and the commission must be constantly concerned that the laws of the member states are in conformity with european directives and provide for clear penalties in the event of their infringement as an additional guarantee of the right to life and health. without strong action, involving partnership with the pharmaceutical industry and all the major players in the field, we will continue to have european citizens dying for days because of the immobility of the institutions.
in writing. – europe is confronted with an increasing problem of shortages and unaffordability of medicines; it is not possible anymore to have the same reaction from the commission indicating the areas of competence of the member states. it is clear that both unaffordability and shortage impact directly on the outcome of patients’ treatment, endangering the status of public health in the union. the commission needs to act and find the right balance between the protection of medical research and access to medicines. the prices required for some life-saving drugs are absolutely astronomical and the population cannot make use of the discovery if it is out of their reach. the commission has to come out with immediate proposals to improve safe, affordable and timely access and availability of medicines for patients in the union.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure mr president, this is a very important issue and i think we all know that sexual abuse and all the terrible things that happen to children make us think about what can be done. i would like to ask you, madam commissioner, whether you think that the association the commissioner referred to, which is funded by the commission, also ensures data security, given that it monitors and has access to the internet data of those who are monitored. do you think that this commission-funded association offers both security and guarantee of personal data?
in writing. it is clear that the rapid and free dissemination of information via the internet accelerates economic and social development, stimulates research and innovation and facilitates access to education in less developed areas. but it has also opened up more avenues for crime, including the very serious problem of child sexual abuse and child pornography on the internet. in recent years, important steps have been taken to combat these abuses, including by the european commission. hello, this way, the global alliance against child sexual abuse online. in this context, we need preventive and sanctioning measures to keep pace. i therefore call for a more substantial allocation of funds from the european union to combat this crime. an allocation is required in accordance with the gravity of this type of crime, on two dimensions: (1) the implementation and support of new measures; (2) public information on them. organisations that facilitate the anonymous reporting of these crimes need to be stronger supported, with the active participation of all states and eu institutions, and new prevention and sanctioning mechanisms can be introduced. internet users must be clearly informed that by their involvement they can stop the phenomenon and that ignoring abuses is in the best interests of the criminals.
mr president, regardless of the country or continent in which you live, freedom of the press and of expression is one of the basic pillars of democracy. what is happening in burundi in the run-up to the elections in may is a danger not only locally, but also regionally, with the great lakes region being extremely volatile. the european union must act to protect the people of burundi, respect human rights, freedom of expression and maintain a stable climate in the region. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, which will be based on the principles of the united nations charter and the international covenant on civil and political rights. in this context, the s&d group strongly urges the burundian government to respect the commitments it has made to date, to guarantee the holding of fair elections and respect for human rights, and the european commission to take all the measures permitted by the agreements and treaties in force, and, last but not least, to call for the immediate release of journalist bob rugurika.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after today's debate.
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on saudi arabia: the case of raif badawi (2015/2550 ((rsp))
the european parliament has called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively. freedom of speech cannot be punished. our group did not sign the resolution agreed by the other colleagues, the main reason being that the joint resolution equates, in one paragraph, saudi arabia and the islamic state. this is a mistake. especially since a delegation from the european parliament is leaving for riyadh tomorrow. i wonder, our colleagues are going to the islamic state? i conclude by saying that we regret that two of the proposals made by the epp group to discuss here in the emergency, namely the case of nadia savcenko and the case of the crimean tatars who are currently being condemned by moscow, were not taken into account and were considered irrelevant.
blue-card question. – in fact, mr castaldo, you know, after what happened in paris – i mean the terrorist attacks in paris against charlie hebdo – the saudi ambassador in france attended the rally, with all the personalities, in support of charlie hebdo and to send a strong anti-terrorism message. at the same time, if all those things were to happen in saudi arabia, with a newspaper like charlie hebdo in saudi arabia, there would of course be a punishment for apostasy, maybe the death penalty, a thousand lashes and so on and so forth. not far away, a new movement has been started: ‘je suis raif’. do you not think that we should promote ‘je suis raif’ within this parliament, like ‘je suis charlie’?
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on the joint graves of missing persons of asia, located in ornithi in the occupied part of cyprus (2015/2551 ((rsp)). since we are late i will ask your permission not to allow blue cards and also to skip the catch the eye procedure, so that we can register to vote taking into account the special requirements of today.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place immediately after the debate today.
in light of yesterday's statement, i suggest we hold a moment of recollection. (the sitting was suspended for a moment) written declarations (rule 162)
in writing. – i voted on this motion for a resolution with concern for the families of missing people in cyprus. i commend the work of the committee of missing persons of cyprus. following their effort, 568 remains have been identified and returned to their families. this effort continues today: 1078 greek cypriots and 355 turkish cypriots are still missing. in ashia, evidence of a mass grave previously exhumed by the turkish government raises concern. i fear that these acts will prevent thorough examinations of remains. identifying the missing people of cyprus must be a priority. we, the european parliament, call on turkey’s government to stop the removal of remains and focus all efforts aiding the cmp. we must stand for the humanitarian cause in cyprus. the work of the cmp will require the cooperation of all parties to bring closure to families of lost people.
the next item on the agenda is the vote. (for results and other voting details: see minutes)
mr president, i should like to explain, before the vote on saudi arabia, why the ppe group did not sign the joint resolution. we have not done so simply because the authors of this joint resolution make a comparison between saudi arabia and the islamic state group in one paragraph. otherwise, as was stated in the debate, we have of course stated in our resolution our clear opposition to the sanctions against raïf badawi. the only reason we voted against this resolution is that our colleagues have drawn a parallel between saudi arabia and the islamic state group.
the vote is over.
in writing. i voted for the creation of a special committee on tax rulings and other measures similar or having similar effects which would verify compliance with the tax regime at european level by all member states and ensure the restoration of a fiscal balance at european level.
in writing. i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the humanitarian crisis in iraq and syria, in particular in the context of the islamic state (is), as the is poses a threat to the populations of these countries and endangers the security of european states. the is crisis has created an unprecedented situation, leaving behind millions of refugees and people in need of urgent assistance. through the interpretation of sharia law, acts of barbarism are committed daily against the followers of religions other than the muslim one. the fact that thousands of fundamentalist movement members in the member states have voluntarily joined the is forces is leading to a phenomenon which is of growing concern to us. the paris tragedy revealed that the radicalization of european islamists could have originated in the prisons of europe, where they were serving sentences for minor offenses. i strongly condemn the atrocities committed by the islamic state and believe that we should take decisive action against those who commit massacres against innocent citizens. i believe that a measure such as the revocation of citizenship would be a firm response against those who want to shake the values of contemporary civilization with unprecedented terrorist attacks.
in writing. the ongoing violence in syria has led to a humanitarian catastrophe unprecedented in recent years, with over 200 000 people killed, most of them civilians. more than 12.2 million syrians and more than 5.2 million people in iraq are in urgent need of humanitarian assistance. there are 3.6 million people living in areas controlled by the islamic state who need help. the islamic state poses a threat to the people of iraq and syria and an integrated military, political, humanitarian and development approach is needed to address this threat. the eu is the leading donor to the victims of the syrian crisis, with over €3.2 billion already committed. the eu will provide an additional €1 billion over the next two years to address the crises in syria and iraq and to counter the threat posed by the islamic state. these funds must be used to finance a comprehensive strategy of political, social and humanitarian measures for syria, iraq, lebanon, jordan and turkey. at the same time, the funds allocated should contribute to the fight against terrorism, in particular by reinforcing the actions of the member states and the eu to curb the flow of foreign fighters and to assist countries in the region in the fight against violent extremism.
in writing. it is regrettable that there are so many human rights violations and that the lives of educated, working women, and especially women who have run for public office, are endangered simply because they want to be professionally involved, and that most refugee and displaced children do not have access to education. i join my colleagues in strongly condemning the torture and expressing my deep sympathy to the victims of the atrocities committed in those regions.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this resolution because the humanitarian situation in iraq, syria and neighbouring countries is devastating. the spread of the daesh (is) group has led to one of the gravest humanitarian crises in contemporary history which must be confronted with every possible means. i support the creation of a broader coalition against the daesh terrorist group, to include any nation that is willing to defend the rights of peoples to be free from fear and to live in dignity. i agree with the position that only a genuine and inclusive process of national reconciliation between different ethnic and religious groups in syria and iraq can be a solution to defeat the threat of daesh. i believe that, in order to reach this objective, the coalition must include the sunni population and gain their support. we must not underestimate the vital threat daesh poses to the populations of iraq and syria. the international community, altogether with the iraqi security forces, the iraqi kurdish fighters (the peshmergas) and the syrian democratic forces must fight and defeat daesh, in order to put an end to the humanitarian crisis, avoids any further loss of lives and reinstate the peace in the region.
in writing. international organisations estimate that over 17.5 million syrians and iraqis are in urgent need of humanitarian assistance, of whom 10 million are internally displaced due to armed conflict and the danger of being trapped in areas brutally controlled by the islamic state terrorist movement. the so-called 'sharia courts', set up to administer punishments of amputation, stoning and crucifixion, as well as war crimes and ethnic cleansing campaigns, complete the spectrum of unleashed barbarism in northern iraq and syria. i therefore support the call for the eu to adopt and implement a regional strategy to annihilate the islamic state group and to act more effectively to alleviate the humanitarian crisis, which is aggravated by a difficult winter and the risk of outbreaks, against the background of poor sanitary conditions. i find it shocking that the world food programme has had to temporarily suspend a food aid programme for 1.7 million syrian refugees because of an international funding crisis. without a massive and urgent international effort, we will face a double humanitarian and security catastrophe in the middle east, which will directly affect the eu, by increasing instability in the immediate neighbourhood, amplifying illegal migration and sharpening the terrorist threat on the territory of the member states.
in writing. — i am in favour of the resolution and i think all members of the parliament should condemn the actions of the islamic state. any campaign to liberate the territories under isil control should adhere strictly to international humanitarian law and international human rights law, in order to avoid more loss of life and feeding the extremist agenda. i would like to point out that, taking into account the unprecedented scale of the crisis, millions of syrians and iraqis are in need of basic goods and services, and this must be a priority for the eu and the international community at large.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution. i welcome the new european union strategy entitled 'elements for an eu regional strategy on syria, iraq and the threat posed by daesh'. the eur 1 billion financial package for 'restoring peace and security in a region devastated by violence and terrorist acts' is an important instrument needed to combat terrorism and support peace. i support the global campaign against isil/daesh and welcome the strong commitment of the partners in this coalition to concrete action within a long-term, joint and coordinated strategy. this strategy should provide for mechanisms for humanitarian and development assistance to countries in the region, as well as programmes to combat extremism and disrupt terrorist financing schemes. for the effective fight against terrorism within the eu, it is essential that we make every effort to eliminate the extremist terrorist threat that is taking hold in the middle east and north africa and fuelling radicalisation in the eu. welcomes the request of the un human rights council to the office of the un high commissioner for human rights to urgently send a mission to iraq to investigate abuses by isil/daesh and associated terrorist groups in relation to the violation of human rights under international law;
in writing. i voted and signed this resolution which strongly condemns the atrocities committed in the territories of syria and iraq. the resolution expresses grave concern at the situation and calls on all parties to the crisis in the region to respect international humanitarian law, to protect civilians, to ensure that they receive medical and humanitarian assistance and that they can leave the areas affected by the violence in complete safety. the european parliament also welcomes the eu strategy 'elements for an eu regional strategy for syria and iraq and the threat posed by daesh' which was created to ensure 'the restoration of peace and security in a region that has been ravaged by terrorism and violence for too long'.
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament. (the sitting was closed at 11.40 a.m.)
mr president, i would like to welcome the presence of vice-president šefčovič so soon after the adoption of the energy union strategy. the energy union must have at its core an efficient, functioning and growth and jobs-creating internal energy market. affordable prices and competitiveness for individual and industrial consumers, as well as the protection of vulnerable consumers, should be the natural consequences of a functioning market. i stress, mr vice-president, the importance of setting a minimum target of 10% interconnection for electricity by 2020 and the possibility of having 15% interconnection by 2030, but we ask the commission to report annually on the progress towards these targets. the 10% target, together with an ambitious legislative proposal to restructure the electricity market, will increase security of supply and ensure that the electricity market is better adapted to the energy transition. i welcome the proposal to create regional operational centres for the efficient planning and management of cross-border electricity and gas flows and stress the need to develop regional energy infrastructure in vulnerable areas. i regret, however, mr vice-president, that no european approach is being proposed to energy poverty. the s&d group supports the coordination at european level of national action plans, scoreboards, exchanges of good practice and a horizontal approach to energy accessibility. as part of the review of the energy efficiency and energy performance of buildings directives, energy poverty will also have to be considered a priority but unfortunately the commission does not mention the review of these directives or the legislation on ecodesign and energy labelling, which our group is calling for. the revision of these directives will undoubtedly also contribute to improving energy efficiency targets, and the commission needs to ensure that the union speaks with one voice in negotiations with third countries on improving energy security. this must be an ambitious objective that requires transparency, openness and cooperation and for which we need an action plan.
mr president, this energy union package comes at the right time for addressing the current challenges we face of less security and less supply, and we should not transform this package into a redundant reiteration of all energy policies in place today. instead we should focus on an accelerated timeline for the proposed 15 concrete actions. if we need a diversified supply, we should build more entry points and support indigenous production. if we need more investment, we should use the efsi to upgrade infrastructure investment to a fully-liquid asset class which attracts private investment. if member states are still isolated, we should re-think regional cooperation and the development of interconnections. energy capacity for the mediterranean countries and for south-eastern europe, as well as interconnecting landlocked countries in central europe to these new capacities, should be a priority for diversifying supply sources in these regions. a southern gas hub and a black sea gas hub will allow gas-on-gas competition and will replace imports of natural gas volumes under oil-indexed contracts. hub price indexation of gas is already lowering costs for consumers in western and northern countries, while intergovernmental agreements with a single supplier in eastern europe continue to crush member states’ bargaining power. ‘more europe’ can happen if we have the choice of physically buying gas from the global market. this would allow us to get the best wholesale prices and services, and this would make europe stronger on the international scene.
mr president, i want to personally thank the commissioner for the excellent cooperation we have had in recent weeks when working on and preparing this very strategic document which is presented today. energy is indeed a priority for our union, and i certainly welcome the fact that the energy union is considered as a priority by the new commission. i want to underline that it is absolutely necessary that our energy policy is well coordinated with our foreign and security policy, because – as events in ukraine are showing – energy security is directly linked to the eu’s security. today we rely on one single main supplier – russia – and this has an evident impact on our foreign and security policy, which is a kind of hostage of this situation. i consider it an absolute necessity to find alternative sources and routes, because this is the only way – by diversifying – that we can avoid in the future a situation like the current one. but we definitely need also to focus on what we already have: increased internal production, increased energy efficiency, and new and better inter-connected infrastructure. from this point of view i think we need to make use of all available sources, including the connecting europe facility, to speed up the creation of a strategic trans-european network for energy, which will allow us better distribution of all types of energy and avoid bottlenecks.
in writing. energy union means common energy resources, interconnection of networks, strengthening of member states' negotiating capacity and, not least, reducing dependence on imports. the european energy market is currently highly fragmented and its fragility is reflected in its inability to respond to external challenges. whether it is the blackmail of russian gas or the unfair competition from chinese solar panel manufacturers, the eu must react swiftly and with one voice to these challenges. i stress the importance of cross-border energy interconnections, which are intended to supply energy to neighbouring states and are a response to external blackmail. the arad szeged pipeline with a two-way pumping capacity contributes to energy security at regional level. i also note that moldova has committed itself to european values, but its dependence on russian gas is hindering its efforts. unfortunately, the iasi ungheni gas pipeline, inaugurated last year, was not put into use due to bureaucratic obstacles raised by russia. mobile landing terminals are veritable geostrategic weapons. investments in this area are urgently needed to ensure energy independence in union markets.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the energy union strategy which will help to integrate the 28 energy markets into one. i believe that this strategy will allow better access to financing instruments for energy efficiency in buildings and transport and will help local actors to implement the smart cities programme. a more efficient functioning of the market at european level will benefit all consumers. we hope that by removing barriers, the european agency in this area will be able to better cooperate with member states to keep prices and fees at a level that is convenient, accessible and competitive for all european citizens. energy should be secure and sustainable, characterised by a higher level of competition and freedom of choice for each consumer.
in writing. the energy union strategic framework opens the debate on strengthening solidarity between member states on energy policy. this laudable initiative, supported by the social democrat commissioner for the energy union, maroš šefčovič, once again highlights the need for a common reference framework not only in terms of prices and costs, but also in terms of what it means to work with suppliers or energy-producing countries. more than ever, in the face of the challenges posed by the current gulf and eastern european context, member states need to act as one, including in negotiating the prices of imported energy. only in this way can we ensure real cohesion within the union and avoid exposing certain countries, such as romania or poland, to additional financial or energy risks. the energy union debate therefore also highlights the need for an energy policy that protects the most disadvantaged or middle-income or low-income consumers compared to the european average. european energy policies need to avoid creating new inequalities and making certain groups feel even more excluded.
in writing. – interruptions in energy supplies in recent years have shown the potential vulnerability of member states relying heavily on energy imports from single sources and have highlighted problems with storage capacity in the event of crises. the eu needs to urgently address these problems in order to create greater stability and better resistance to external shocks, and to better manage its own internal energy sources. this would also help progress towards other important eu policy objectives, such as increasing the integration of renewable energy sources into the energy mix and increasing energy independence. we also need to foster solidarity amongst member states which will provide additional security for individual countries, as well as protecting and strengthening the whole region.
in writing. the fact that europe needs a european energy union is already a reality, supported by member states. the fact that europe does not yet have a european energy union is also a reality, the cause of which lies in the member states. first, some member states are ensuring their energy security through individual actions and do not support european projects that increase europe's energy independence and strengthen its energy security. secondly, some member states do not want to break the monopoly of national companies. thirdly, member states have energy strategies which differ greatly in the directions of development. it is time for member states to take concrete action to ensure that the european commission's new energy union initiative does not go to waste.
in writing. the development of a common energy strategy for the eu member states shows that the eu is taking concrete steps on a highly pressing issue that has been geopolitically exploited by russia for years. in addition to the individual efforts of the 28 member states to reduce their energy dependence on russian gas imports, it is welcome that the european commission has taken the initiative to develop such an energy strategy. the european union is the world's largest energy importer, according to statistics, with more than half of what it uses coming from imports worth over €400 billion. it is clear that we need to reconfigure our energy relationship with russia so that we have a level playing field, fair competition and security. it is equally clear that this is becoming an increasingly distant goal, given russia's hostile actions towards ukraine. in these circumstances, the eu's opening up to countries such as the usa and canada, norway, the states of the caucasus, the middle east and africa is a priority. finding alternative sources to russian gas is vital.
in writing. – i find that the resolute response of the council in the wake of the paris shootings is commendable, it is really imperative that we address security concerns and fill in the gaps in our security strategy as fast as possible. nevertheless, the counterterrorism responses offered by the council raise a few fundamental challenges regarding some of the eu’s most important achievements in the field of freedom of movement and the schengen free travel area. before proposing the fundamental revision of the schengen rules we should firstly consider whether we have used the current rules to the best extent possible. instead of giving in to political populism and reimposing internal border controls, we should insist on more and better cooperation and information sharing among member states and among eu agencies, such as europol and eurojust.
member of the commission. - mr president, first of all let me clarify that the high representative has certainly expressed in public her concern about mr ledezma’s arrest. this is the statement that was released only yesterday, this is just to clarify this. now the european union is keen to strengthen relations with venezuela, both regionally and bilaterally. our relations with venezuela matter, and it is essential to be supportive, as venezuela faces the challenges previously outlined whilst continuing to respond to events, encourage reform and appeal for genuine reconciliation in the country. it is in all our interests that real dialogue can take place both within venezuela and also with venezuela. we have a long, shared history and close cultural ties with the country. we speak out of concern and friendship for venezuela when we say that the only way back to stability and progress in the nation is through inclusive dialogue, and inclusive dialogue is indeed the only way to reconciliation, provided that it is based on respect for human rights and, of course, freedom of expression.
in writing. – in venezuela security forces have used unlawful force in response to anti-government demonstrations, severely beating unarmed protesters and shooting them at point blank range. the violence and loss of life that the country is experiencing, the intimidation and mistreatments of political opponents and of students as well as the recent arrest and detention of the mayor of caracas and veteran opposition leader antonio ledezma are very alarming news and must be condemned by all means. in a year when legislative elections are due to take place in venezuela many more efforts need to be made in the direction of more respect for freedom of expression and the fundamental rights of venezuelan citizens. i expect the government to undertake a full investigation. venezuelan authorities must ensure that accusations are investigated swiftly and impartially with full respect for the principle of presumption of innocence and due legal process.
mr president, i would like to draw attention to the serious discrimination faced by romanians in several european countries. for example, recently, through a press material broadcast in the uk, defamatory and strictly negative aspects are presented that are not at all representative of the majority of romanians. in this series only xenophobic and racist opinions about romanians are rendered, thus leaving the impression that this is the dominant sentiment among europeans and britons. as a romanian who has lived many years abroad, i am determined to defend them because i know what their real situation is. i stand with romanians in the uk and other countries where they are discriminated against and i am sending you my dissatisfaction with the lack of reaction from the european institutions. we need a firm decision in the european parliament to condemn any racist or xenophobic speech, even if it comes from politicians or even colleagues in the european parliament. in this regard, the group of young social democrats under 40 will launch an anti-discrimination campaign on this occasion to show that the european parliament is firmly opposed to all types of racist manipulation and attacks.
mr president, the absorption of european funds is the main engine of economic development in any member state of the european union, a guarantee for the increase in the number of jobs and, by implication, the living standards of citizens. the €315 billion investment plan proposed by the juncker commission, adopted by the european parliament, horizon 2020, the erasmus for students programme and, not least, the cap allocations are just some of the funding axes available to member states. however, during the various debates in the european parliament, many member states complain that they have real difficulties absorbing these funds because of extremely difficult and cumbersome procedures. i therefore ask the commission and the council, as well as the european parliament, to work closely on adapting and adopting a single piece of legislation that ensures first of all transparency in the spending of public money, but above all simplifies procedures and, not least, standardizes them at the level of the countries of the european union, so that the absorption of structural and cohesion funds becomes a reality for all member states and not just a mere hypothesis.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the transatlantic trade and investment partnership is a trade agreement which could indeed be beneficial for the union if certain conditions are met. the european commission must take into account in the negotiations the problems facing europe's health systems, limited access to medicines and their excessive prices. we do not want this agreement to worsen an already unfavourable situation for patients and to get to the point where eu citizens have to pay more for new medicines. the european union has made considerable progress in clinical trials and this progress should not be lost. pharmaceutical companies need to be transparent and make available important clinical trial data to facilitate the effective development of new medicines. the commission should assure the member states that this agreement will not in any way limit their competence in matters of public health. we cannot imagine the harmful effects of establishing a mechanism to allow a member state to be sued on the grounds that the profits of a pharmaceutical company have been limited by government decisions. we cannot give more power to pharmaceutical companies at the expense of patients' access to affordable medicines.
mr president, i would like to tell you that two weeks ago i sent you an open letter warning you about xenophobic and racist statements made against romanians by a member of the european parliament, mr gianluca buonanno. to quote, he publicly stated that "romanians kill, commit massacres for a few euros". i think it is very serious for a member of the european parliament to make such public statements and i think that to accept and not sanction such statements would set a precedent and tarnish the image of the most democratic institution of the european union, which is the european parliament. in conclusion, i ask you to take a clear position on this issue and i ask you to sanction the xenophobic and racist statements of the member of the european parliament, mr gianluca buonanno. also, given the events of the last two weeks, i think a debate on this topic is necessary.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure. you give me the impression, my dear colleague, that you have not read the tarabella report. can you tell me which article requires a woman to work full-time?
mr president, promoting the principle of equal opportunities for women and men, together with ensuring an increased participation of women in economic and social life as full protagonists, must become a reality at european level. i believe that the european executive and the member states must work closely together to promote a coherent strategy that leads to improving access to education for rural women, social protection and vocational training, lifelong learning, effective local public health services. we must not forget that many rural women live in precarious conditions and do not receive pensions or their level is very low and as such they need increased attention from the competent bodies. i want to congratulate the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs and move from statements to a real advocacy of gender equality. we have to vote on the tarabella report.
mr president, i would like, first of all, to underline one very important fact. in reality, the female unemployment rate is underestimated when you take into consideration that many women are not registered as unemployed, particularly, for example, those women living in remote areas or in rural areas, and women who also devote themselves to their families, to childcare and to looking after their houses. i would like to raise another issue concerning the situation of small and medium—sized enterprises in europe, which provide about 70% of private sector jobs, where the rate of entrepreneurship among women in the european union is about 10%, which is half the rate among men. only about 30% of entrepreneurs in the european union are women. i therefore suggest, madam commissioner, that we should introduce and promote new programmes at european union level, in order to increase entrepreneurship among women.
in writing. i believe that this clear approach to equality between men and women, especially in the labour market, is not only fair but absolutely necessary. the need to formulate tangible proposals for reconciling work and family life, which do not penalise women's position in society, is a compulsory action that the eu institutions must pursue. a more balanced sharing of occupational, family and social responsibilities between women and men could reduce the existing gap in women's active participation in the labour market. i believe that member states must support paid paternity leave, not only to balance the social mechanism, but also for the education of children, which can be done by both parties.
blue-card question. – madam president, i would like to ask our colleague if he agrees with the inclusion in this report of the private attacks on google?
madam president, i fully support the proposals in the report, which call on the european commission to examine possible cases of infringement of competition and state aid rules in those situations where tax relief letters have been granted to certain transnational companies in some member states. i know that the european commission has already addressed this issue and we look forward to its conclusions. at the same time, i raise the issue of the large price differences for the same types of medicines between the member states of the european union with the european commission. such large price differences may conceal abusive practices by both manufacturers and distributors of medicinal products. such large price differences certainly show a fragmented market for medicines. i therefore believe that an analysis by the european commission of the problem of the medicines market in europe is necessary in order to be able to identify possible market dominance positions, so that we can prevent these abuses and excessive rents.
madam president, i am very pleased with the outcome of the negotiations on this report. i would like to underline the remarkable result of defending public services from being subject to a policy of competition. the possibility for the member states to organise public services according to their own needs is a crucial point for our socialist and democratic group within this parliament. in the amendments, i proposed and defended a stronger role for parliament in shaping our competition policy, with the goal of increasing the level of market transparency, stability and growth. by means of this report we are closer to achieving fundamental goals like ensuring fair competition and combating social dumping on the labour market, subjecting services of general economic interest to the rules of competition, tackling fragmentation and anti-trust behaviour in the euʼs digital market, ending state-aid regimes to banks, and ending tax evasion and illegal corporate tax practices. although i do not agree with the inclusion of the private attacks on google, since the idea of the report was to put forward general rules, i support the adoption of this report in the plenary session.
madam president, commissioner, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteurs and to appreciate that it is a balanced report. the problem i want to raise for the commissioner is this: we need competition policy, but we also need fair competition in the market. my question is, commissioner, whether in two directions you have thought of something for the next period. one direction is on real policies that bring practical efficiency to the way smes are treated in the global market. and as a former entrepreneur, i could see that, in fact, in the european union there is really no equal competition between large companies and smes. secondly, if you've thought about regulating something and what it means for non-european countries to enter the european union market, because we're dealing with a lot of competition and unfair competition with unregulated products. if these two things could be solved, i think we can rejoice and say we have policies with practical effects in the future.
mr president, a latin proverb says that 'everyone wants to be healthy, but often everything goes against it'. a number of professional organisations, such as the world health organisation and the american academy of pediatrics, have in recent years drawn attention to the high risk to human health posed by endocrine disruptors and other related chemicals. endocrine disruptors are chemicals that, once in the human body, prevent normal growth and development, cause negative changes in metabolism, and lead to various forms of cancer, infertility, obesity, and diabetes. the european union as a whole has a duty to make the health of its citizens a priority. in this respect, i believe that the impact studies launched by the commission in this area should focus on the potential implications of endocrine disruptors on human health and not on the economic implications for the relevant industry or trade. we can ask ourselves: what good is high-performing agriculture with high productivity, but a sick population? surely, we say we, to nothing. i therefore believe that clear rules on the control, prohibition and substitution of endocrine disruptors with certain substances considered safe are necessary to strike the perfect balance between ensuring the continued protection of human health and the environment and at the same time providing farmers with the plant protection products they need. the european commission, the council and the european parliament must urgently intervene to tackle this problem, all the more so as exposure of the population to these substances generates expenditure of over eur 30 billion in the european union, as studies by the relevant institutions show.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, in a globalised economy, goods are moving with unprecedented speed and supply chains are becoming increasingly complex and spread over a much larger geographical area. the russian government's embargo on eu agri-food products provides a clear picture of the impact that a political decision can have on many european economic sectors. i join my colleagues in the committee on transport and tourism in drawing attention to the effects of these restrictions on the market for international road hauliers of agri-food products. we cannot understand the seriousness of the situation if we neglect the economic loss caused by the concluded supply contracts and lost by european carriers operating on the russian export market. the cumulative impact of the oversupply of agri-food products on the internal market, the loss of these contracts and the significant increase in the cost of transport in transit to third countries affects the whole european economy, not just one sector of it. central and eastern european countries are the most affected by this situation and, because of the internal market, the effect is felt throughout the eu. i ask the european commission to provide parliament with sufficient data on the impact of the embargo and i also ask that together we find an appropriate solution to this problem.
on 25 february 2015, the commissioner responsible for economic and monetary affairs announced the inclusion of romania in the macroeconomic imbalance and monitoring procedure. the commission's arguments in this respect are very vague. the application of such monitoring implies, under european union law, the passing of critical thresholds in terms of: current account balance, effective exchange rate change, external financial position, export market share change, consolidated public and private sector debt, unemployment rate and financial sector liability change. none of these indicators has reached the critical threshold in my country, so it needs to be included in the monitoring. romania is in its fourth year of economic growth, has stability on the course, has one of the lowest deficits, has export growth, has no bank failures and there are institutional reforms underway. can we conclude that the romanian government's decision not to extend the agreement with the imf may be the reason for romania's inclusion on the monitoring list? i consider that the inclusion of romania on the list of macroeconomic imbalances is unjustified and i believe that the commission has an obligation to present the concrete arguments that led to its inclusion on this list. this is damaging to the country's image and credibility with investors.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, three weeks have passed since the statue of liberty, which commemorates the 13 martyrs, was desecrated in arad by unpunished perpetrators. this is a serious act, because the statue of liberty is not only one of the outstanding works of art of hungarian culture, but for more than a decade it has been the worthy ornament of the symbolic space that was named the reconciliation park in order to proclaim the message of the hungarian-romanian historical reconciliation. i strongly condemn the desecration of the statue of arad here in the hall of the european parliament in strasbourg, the capital of franco-german reconciliation. the historic city of arad, on the western border of romania, cannot be the city of interethnic strife! like strasbourg, arad should be the capital of hungarian-romanian reconciliation, setting an example of mutual respect, tolerance, rejection of extremism and extremists.
mr president, on 3 march, during the italian tv talkshow ‘piazzapulita’, the vice-president of the federation ʽrom e sinti insiemeʼ, diana pavlovic, was subjected to a violent racist attack by an italian mep, gianluca buonanno. for me, as a roma mep and as a citizen of romania and of the european union, such public behaviour is intolerable nowadays. because the political family that i belong to, the socialists, across 28 european member states, decided to support me in becoming a member of this prestigious institution, they will not support the voice of discrimination against those who are disrespected. if you have any doubt about who they are and whom i am speaking on behalf of, let me remind you: the roma. gianluca buonanno, as a member of the european parliament, should be reminded that, when any of us takes a discriminatory attitude or a racist public stance, this institution does not allow such public behaviour. more than this, the situation calls for such attitudes to be condemned and penalised and for a stand to be taken against such deviant behaviour. so i call on parliament to take a stand and publicly condemn and penalise attitudes like these when they appear.
i declare the 2015-2016 session of the european parliament open.
i call the meeting to order and give the floor to mr richard corbett for a clarification of the rules of procedure.
we will communicate this and i am confident you will receive an appropriate response.
the first item on the agenda is the debate on the recommendation for second reading of the committee on transport and tourism on the council's first reading position with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending council directive 96/53/ec setting out the maximum authorised dimensions in national and international traffic and the maximum authorised weight in international traffic for certain road vehicles circulating within the community (11296/3/2014 - c8-0294/2014 - 2013/0105 ((cod)) (rapporteur: jörg leichtfried) (a8-0032/2015).
blue-card question.– i have a question for our colleague, mr poręba, who was talking about a compromise, considering the licences that would have to be issued to big lorries and trucks, especially in central and eastern europe – which is where we are from – versus a better, reliable infrastructure. what, in his opinion, might this compromise involve?
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure first of all, i agree with the report, it is good that a negotiation has been reached and i congratulate the rapporteur. i would like to ask you, however, because i was not clear: do you not agree with the proposal made and negotiated by the rapporteur? isn't it necessary to have a change of directive? because on the one hand, you said you agreed, on the other hand, you said that certain things are not necessary. as a member of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, i believe that we must ensure that these details are in place to protect people.
mr president, i believe that we need robust legislation on truck size to respond to new technological developments. i think that amending the legislation to accommodate the exceptions on the authorised dimensions and weights for trucks is welcome and is part of a wider debate in my view on the definition of the future european transport policy. the latest technological developments in truck design will allow us to have state-of-the-art vehicles with alternative propulsion systems, improved aerodynamics, low energy consumption and contributing to improved road safety. a well-developed infrastructure, together with the commercial vehicle sector, can play a very important role in accelerating intermodal transport and in achieving the objectives of the white paper on the most efficient use of transport and the reduction of carbon emissions. the endless interinstitutional discussions on this subject have lost sight of the most important picture or the big picture, which is that we need to review what has been achieved so far and set ourselves new and achievable transport targets.
the president. the debate is closed. the vote will take place today at 11.30 a.m. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the debate on the supplementary report by mr alain lamassoure, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on european long-term investment funds (com (2013) 0462 - c7-0209/2013 - 2013/0214 (cod)) (a8-0021/2015).
mr president, if we had had this report ten years ago, we could have discussed long-term investment in social sphere and its viability, we would have had a sample. the report is welcomed today, however, on one condition: that it be implemented very quickly by the commission, which has a number of acts to be carried out under the regulation, and by the supervisory authority esma, which will have to be very attentive to the way this project is going. of course, the european investment bank will use the resources it has. other resources are needed, in my view, for the fund to become effective and viable in economic reality, especially in small communities, where i see a very high potential for supporting growth, development and jobs. however, the regulation provides for the possibility for some investors to receive royalties earlier, when they agree to lock in their capital for the long term. we understand this need for stimulus, but we have to be careful that it doesn't become the core purpose of these funds and create a system where investors just choose quick royalties and then find ways to withdraw their private capital, because otherwise we would be blocking the effectiveness of this fund.
mr president, in order to remain competitive in an increasingly globalised world, the european union needs measures that can ensure the long-term financing of the european real economy on the one hand and the use of market liquidity on the other. in europe there are currently liquidity reserves, but they are not being effectively channelled to long-term investment because of the crisis of confidence of potential investors. the big challenge is therefore to reconnect private investment to attractive projects. to achieve this, europe needs to take risks to encourage project promoters to launch long-term investments in infrastructure, such as transport, communications, energy or education, in real estate assets, social infrastructure, innovation and climate protection. the effect will be simple and visible: by multiplying investments, europe will be more prosperous and create more jobs. on the other hand, i welcome the commission's proposal to create a crossborder product framework for long-term investment, because a europe without internal borders is and must remain an attractive market for such projects which benefit european citizens in crossborder areas and beyond.
mr president, the european long—term investment fund was to finance a new financial vehicle that will enable private investments to be channelled into the european economy. long—term finance is a crucial tool for putting the european economy on the right path of sustainable growth in accordance with the eu 2020 strategy, to promote high employment and competitiveness. i am very satisfied with the outcome of our group’s effort to avoid speculation and tax havens and to ensure that investments take into account the european union 2020 strategy on employment and social targets. this report will have a very productive result because it targets the real economy of the european union countries. moreover, the report guarantees the possibility for small investors to participate in the fund with the necessary protection, such as the early ticket and the early redemption clause. i therefore support the conclusion of this agreement in the plenary session.
mr president, i would first like to say that i appreciate the work of the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs because, yes, they have tried to make some improvements to the rules of procedure of parliament and of the council. but - because today, commissioner, as yesterday, you have heard the word 'smes' many times - i cannot help but wonder: will smes still be able to access this investment fund created specifically as an alternative to banks? i've had a sad experience in other situations with mutual funds, which used almost the same criteria as banks. therefore, personally, i would have thought that a certain amount of money should be allocated to smes in this special investment fund, otherwise we would find that all the funds are concentrated in certain directions and smes would be left without support. in fact, all the funds so far, cosme and everything that has been created for smes, are absolutely theoretical and in practice almost nothing happens. i hope, commissioner, that what you are going to do will still find ways of financing smes.
in writing. the long-term european investment architecture aims to mobilise financial capital to increase the competitiveness of member states' economies, close the gap between regions and create new jobs. the stability of the european economic climate is an essential condition for attracting private capital to public projects. at the same time, a simple, bureaucratic-free framework and a uniform level of rules across all member states are needed. the added value of projects should take into account the combined benefits of the investment over the long term, rather than its strictly economic benefits. there must also be instruments to guarantee public investment in such a way as to make it as attractive as possible. last but not least, i would stress that the success of long-term investments depends to a large extent on their continuity, so clear rules should be put in place to limit the possibility for investors to withdraw their allocated amounts at any time. i am convinced that long-term investment will deliver measurable results in smart growth by supporting the digital economy and creating integrated networks in the single market, in increasing employment by facilitating the mobility of citizens and businesses, and in sustainable development by unlocking the potential of the green economy.
in writing. the european union needs to boost investment and the draft regulation responds to this need. a single european legal framework for the establishment and operation of european long-term investment funds is hereby established. these funds will be able to attract resources from institutional investors interested in long-term investments, such as pension funds, life insurance companies, etc. the legal framework provides the necessary flexibility for these funds, but at the same time contains the prudential measures they must respect to avoid speculative investments and lack of diversification of the asset portfolio. we welcome the adoption of this legal framework for long-term european investment funds which will also contribute to the implementation of the european commission's investment plan through the european fund for strategic investments.
in writing. ‒ the economic problems caused by the crisis are also felt in the chemical industry. the case of zahem in poland is an illustrative one. it had to lay off 615 workers because of the losses. the chemical sector has experienced a significant decline, so that if in 1992 the eu market share in the world chemical market was 35,2%, it has suffered losses, with the eu market share in 2012 being 17,8%. this is due to the shift of production of chemicals to other economically attractive areas such as china. it is good to know that zahem is an important engine of development in the area where it operates, being the largest employer in the region, and the layoff of these workers is a real problem, they represent 60% of the total registered unemployed in the area. it is essential that the coordinated package of services of eur 115 205 for the 50 most affected persons is provided to redress the precarious economic situation. i voted in favour of this report because measures to support redundant employees are absolutely necessary to integrate them into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ accompanying measures were implemented after the announcement of lay-offs in consultation with the social partners and in partnership with the regional public employment services. in the process we pleaded with commissioners thyssen and malmström for greater coordination to ensure that international trade agreements do not damage european industrial employment. i therefore voted in favour of this mobilisation of funds.
in writing. ‒ i support the implementation of this european globalisation adjustment fund - egf application by pl/zachem as the special rapporteur of the social democratic group in the european parliament for the egf funds.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is a financial instrument that allows for the allocation of money to people who lose their jobs as a result of the economic and financial crisis or as a result of changes in the structure of world trade due to globalisation. the budget allocated to the fund for the period 2014-2020 shall be eur 150 million. zaklady chemiczne zachem was a polish chemical producer producing semi-finished and finished chemicals for the chemical industry, paper industry, energy sector, etc. the changes caused by the economic crisis led to the suspension of production at this company, with over 600 employees being laid off between march 2013 and july 2013. an application was therefore submitted to the european commission for the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 115 205 from the egf, which was approved by the commission by adopting a decision to mobilise the egf in favour of poland at the beginning of 2015. the european parliament report found that all eligibility criteria were met and therefore supports the granting of the requested amount of the egf. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ experience shows that at european level, the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) has proved to be a successful instrument for reintegrating thousands of redundant workers into the labour market. i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to allocate eur 115 205 for workers made redundant at zachem, a major polish chemical producer. i welcome the adoption of this report and hope that the money allocated will be used effectively to reintegrate the displaced into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ solar energy, one of the most effective solutions to combat global warming, is being compromised at european level by the effects of the economic crisis. between 2005 and 2011, german companies declined by 43 percent, while chinese companies grew by 34 percent, because asians produce more than they can use, so they have to export. this affected the production within the union, but also the demand and consumption. the german company aleo solar is just one of the european companies in this sector that went bankrupt. last year, 657 people were laid off in just five months. the company is now asking for eur 1 094 760 to reintegrate these dismissed workers into the labour market. i agree that this sum should go to the germans, because i believe that the engine of the european economy must continue to work, especially in the context of the conflicts that are simmering and threaten the stability in the area. and also, solar energy produces clean electricity, and i think the money invested in solar can create more jobs than coal or natural gas.
in writing. ‒ the deployment of eur 1 094 760 by the european globalisation adjustment fund will enable assistance in looking for jobs, professional training, support in the creation of enterprises and other programmes for 476 german employees who have been made redundant by aleo solar, a company in the renewable energy sector. i therefore supported the deployment of these funds in the plenary vote.
in writing. ‒ i support the implementation of this european globalisation adjustment fund - the egf de/aleo solar application as the special rapporteur of the social democratic group in the european parliament for the egf funds.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is a financial instrument that allows for the allocation of money to people who lose their jobs as a result of the economic and financial crisis or because of the changes in the structure of world trade brought about by globalisation. unlike the structural and investment funds, which target strategic, long-term projects, this fund provides targeted and individual support limited in time. aleo solar is a german company which has decided to close two production units in germany. the closure of the two units led to the dismissal of 657 employees in 2014. the application to the commission envisages the allocation of an amount from the egf to co-finance a coordinated package of personalised services for the reintegration of workers made redundant. following examination of the application, the commission adopted in december 2014 the proposal for a decision to mobilise the egf in favour of germany, in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of persons made redundant. the european parliament report found that all eligibility criteria were met and supports the allocation from the european globalisation adjustment fund of the requested amount. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the economic crisis has had many negative effects over time, and one of the most important has been the adjustment of jobs. at european level, the phenomenon has affected several countries, including belgium. the steel industry is among the hardest hit. in europe alone, from 2006 to 2011, production decreased by 14%, while worldwide it increased by 26%. this was due, inter alia, to the decreasing demand for steel in the automotive and construction sectors in the eu. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of employees in the company. the company is requesting eur 981 956 for the reintegration of the redundant workers into the labour market. i think this should be supported because it's 700 people who can support 700 families, which means the cost of housing, children and their education. i voted in favour of the report because once supported and reintegrated, displaced workers will be able to perform better in the future, leading to increased productivity and the economy.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this report to support the reintegration of 701 workers at duferco nlmk, an industry operating in the steel sector, back into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i support the implementation of this european globalisation adjustment fund - the application of egf be/hainaut steel as the special rapporteur of the social democratic group in the european parliament for the egf funds.
in writing. ‒ i voted to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund on the request from belgium following 708 redundancies at two enterprises caused by the closure of duferco and staff reductions at nlmk, enterprises in the base metal processing sector. the commission recalled that the commission had not provided any information on the volume of imports from the prc during the investigation period. between 2006 and 2011, the production of crude steel in the eu-27 decreased from 206,9 million tonnes to 177,7 million tonnes ( 14,1%) while worldwide production increased from 1 249 million tonnes to 1 518,3 million tonnes (+ 21,6%). this led to a decrease in the market share of the eu-27 in terms of crude steel production and an increase in the market share of china from 33,7% to 45% in the same period. as this is the fifth egf application in the steel sector, as r&d coordinator for industry, research and energy i support the need for a union strategy in the field of base metal processing. i stress that an effective and coordinated approach at union level is needed to combat unemployment in the steel sector.
in writing. ‒ following the global changes in recent years, the european steel sector has been marked by severe economic disruption. thus, between 2006 and 2011, the production of crude steel in the eu-27 decreased from 206,9 million tonnes to 177,7 million tonnes. as a result, the market share of the eu-27 in terms of crude steel production decreased significantly in terms of volume. on 27 september 2013, belgium submitted an application for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) following redundancies related to the closure of the belgian company duferco and to staff reductions at the belgian company nlmk. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is a financial instrument to provide money for people who lose their jobs as a result of the economic and financial crisis or the changes in the pattern of world trade due to globalisation. the european commission has examined the eligibility conditions and approved the allocation from the egf of eur 981 956 in commitment and payment appropriations. the european parliament resolution supports the commission proposal and gives its favourable opinion on the allocation of the money.
in writing. ‒ while globalisation is welcomed by many, it has also had negative effects, especially on the economy. a concrete example is the steel sector in belgium, which has suffered staff redundancies due to economic problems. arcelormittal liège is the best example of the negative effects of globalisation. in this case, the redundancies were caused by major structural changes in world trade due to globalisation, so that if at eu level crude steel production decreased by 20,9% between 2007 and 2013, at world level it increased by 22,3%. given that the liège region is heavily dependent on the steel industry and that the share of this enterprise in the local labour market is 78,9%, it is all the more important to support such a measure with regard to the granting of financial aid of eur 1 591 486 for almost 1 300 persons. i voted in favour of this measure because it supports the development of new skills and orientations towards vocational retraining.
in writing. i believe that an effective and coordinated approach at union level and appropriate and targeted investments are needed to ensure innovation, which is the main determinant of the global competitiveness of the union steel sector and which provides guarantees on the preservation of jobs in europe. i therefore welcome the proposal for a decision to mobilise the egf to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade brought about by globalisation.
in writing. ‒ arcelormittal in liège sustained great economic losses due to the drop in european union steel market shares in the period 2007-2013, undermining its competitiveness. today i voted in favour of this report to support reintegration in the labour market of 910 workers who have been made redundant at the arcelormittal steel industry subsidiary in liège.
in writing. ‒ i support the implementation of this european globalisation adjustment fund - egf application be/arcelormittal as rapporteur in the european parliament. implementation of this project will identify and facilitate the reintegration into employment of a significant number of workers who have lost their jobs as a result of the economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund in response to the request from belgium following the redundancies of 1 285 workers at arcelormittal liège s.a. the commission recalled that the union industry was not able to obtain sufficient spare capacity to meet the demand for biodiesel from the union industry. the competitiveness of the union steel industry was affected by the decreasing demand for steel in the automotive and construction sectors in the eu as a consequence of the economic crisis and the relative increase in production costs (raw materials, energy, environmental requirements, etc.). these factors have led to the loss of a large number of jobs in this sector in recent years, as a result of the closure of mills and the restructuring of several european steel producers. in order to reverse the declining trend in the competitiveness of the union steel sector, an effective and coordinated approach at union level is needed. as s&d coordinator for industry, research and energy, i stress the need for a union strategy on european industry. viable solutions are needed for both the steel industry and the metal products sector to maintain competitiveness and jobs in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to allocate eur 1.5 million for the retraining of the 1 258 workers made redundant at the arcelor mittal plant in liège, belgium. the provision of these workers followed the restructuring of the liège plant, which was due to major changes in the structure of world trade due to globalisation. i hope that the conversion programmes will be successful with the support of the egf, an instrument which has already proven its effectiveness.
in writing. ‒ with the economic crisis, europeans stopped buying new cars. the main sectors affected were the automotive industry, but also the production of parts, assemblies and welded structures. one company affected is also the caterpillar subsidiary in gosselies, belgium. the parent company has opened plants in asia and latin america, and the growth is due exclusively to these markets, but also to the overall growth of the asian economies, especially china and india. in europe, however, things did not go so well. as a result of the lack of investment in infrastructure, the market for catepillar gosselies declined dramatically and 663 workers were laid off from this subsidiary. the company is requesting eur 1 222 854 from the edf to help these people reintegrate into the labour market. i voted in favour of this report because the amount requested represents an 'investment' in the 633 workers and their chance to reintegrate and participate effectively in economic development.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to support the reintegration into the labour market of 630 workers at caterpillar, a factory that operates in the industrial machine sector in gosselies.
in writing. ‒ i support the implementation of this european globalisation adjustment fund - egf application be/caterpillar as the special rapporteur of the social democratic group in the european parliament for the egf.
in writing. ‒ caterpillar, based in gosselies, belgium, specialises in the assembly of cars, the production of components, assemblies and welded structures, and its products are exclusively intended for the european construction and mining sectors. following major structural changes in international trade practices and the decline in demand for this type of products in europe, the production of this company was severely affected, which led to the relocation of substantial production capacity to third countries. this relocation resulted in the dismissal of 1,030 workers. the belgian authorities have therefore submitted an application to the european commission for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). the european commission has examined the eligibility conditions and approved the allocation of a financial contribution from the egf of eur 1 222 854. the european parliament resolution supports the commission proposal and gives its favourable opinion on the allocation of the money.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the directive against the ʽmegatrucksʼ to ensure that their use, up until now limited to the scandinavian countries, the united kingdom and ireland, is not extended to all european countries. today 26 % of co2 emissions from road transport in europe come from this kind of heavy vehicle. a further spread of such means would have dangerous repercussions on pollution.
in writing. ‒ i support the introduction of this recommendation on the council's first reading position with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending council directive 96/53/ec setting maximum authorised dimensions in national and international traffic and maximum authorised weights in international traffic for certain road vehicles circulating within the community.
in writing. ‒ the use of long-term european investment funds is one of the main drivers of sustainable growth in the european economy and also creates the conditions for building the economy of the future in a way that is more resilient to the risks of future economic and financial crises. the objective of this regulation is to boost long-term investment in the real economy. i support the european parliament's proposal for a regulation on the use of the european long-term investment funds in particular because of the arguments mentioned and because such regulation at union level can avoid the risk of divergent measures at national level which can cause distortions of competition caused by different investment protection measures.
in writing. ‒ i believe that long-term financing is an important tool for putting the european economy on the path to sustainable, smart and inclusive growth, in line with the europe 2020 strategy, for better competitiveness and employment and for building the economy of tomorrow so that it is less prone to systemic risks and more resilient. european long-term investment funds (eltifs) provide financing to a diverse range of infrastructure projects, unlisted companies or long-listed small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) that issue equity and debt instruments for which there is no readily identifiable buyer. the efsi should therefore be considered as a financial instrument for the purpose of the union's policy objectives.
in writing. – the idea behind the european long-term investment funds was to finance a new financial vehicle that will enable private investments to be channelled into the european economy. long-term finance is a crucial tool for putting the european economy on the right path of sustainable growth in accordance with the europe 2020 strategy to promote high employment and competitiveness. i am very satisfied with the outcome of our group’s efforts to avoid speculation and tax havens and to ensure that investments take into account the europe 2020 strategy on employment and social targets. this report will have a very productive result because it targets the real economy of european union countries. moreover, the report guarantees the possibility for small investors to participate in the funds with the necessary protection, such as the early ticket and the early redemption clause. i therefore supported the conclusion of this agreement in the plenary session.
in writing. ‒ this is an intelligent long-term private investment instrument with a legal basis to cross borders within the eu. it should be helpful for infrastructure and social projects, but investors should be careful not to put all their money into an eltif: they will not be able to get it back for quite a while. these are really long—term instruments, investing in companies that are themselves not listed, so not liquid.
in writing. ‒ i support this report on the european long-term investment funds.
in writing. ‒ at present, there are investors on the market (pension funds, insurance companies) who want to invest for the long term if they are guaranteed a stable return or a lump sum payment. the european commission has therefore put forward a legislative proposal to meet these investors by creating so-called european long-term investment funds (eltifs). at present, there are no uniform, clear and precise rules at european level governing these funds. the adoption of an appropriate legislative framework will lead to a better functioning of the internal market and a higher level of investor protection and will ensure that the eltif has a consistent and stable product profile across the union. the european parliament's report includes, among other things, provisions to ensure that long-term funds do indeed contribute to economic growth, that they are not used for speculative purposes and that any retail investor is adequately informed and protected.
in writing. ‒ safe, efficient, competitive and innovative electronic payments are essential to consumers, retailers and businesses. since i support an integrated market for electronic payments, in which there is no distinction between domestic payments and cross-border payments, i voted in favour of this report. as global trade becomes electronic this regulation will allow citizens to enjoy fully the benefits of the internal market.
in writing. ‒ basically we have a maze of legal rules in europe about and around the fees you pay on your card transactions. this proposal is aiming to unify that market and make sure we as consumers can avoid traps while paying. i have had a few painful personal experiences in this matter.
in writing. ‒ i support this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on interchange fees for card-based payment transactions.
in writing. ‒ the issue of interbank fees has been on the ep's agenda since 2013. it is time to make an informed decision on how to reduce the costs for european consumers who waste over eur 6 billion each year on uncontrolled interbank fees. by capping interchange fees on card transactions, we can contribute to a significant increase in consumption in europe and at the same time create quantifiable benefits for the european sme sector. it is our duty to protect european consumers of banking products and services and to ensure a transparent environment, clear and predictable costs and fairness in their dealings with credit institutions and merchants. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to impose a maximum fine of eur 50000 per year for infringements of the competition rules. many romanians have suffered in their relationship with creditors, becoming prisoners of ever-increasing monthly payments, due to the lack of transparency and correct information on the risks assumed at the time of signing contracts. i give this example to put into context the fact that my decision today is for the adoption of the regulation on interchange fees for card-based payment transactions.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report on the regulation on interchange fees for card-based payment transactions. the report adopted today aims to remove measures taken at national level which could create significant obstacles to the completion of the internal market in card payments on the internet and from mobile card-based devices and would therefore obstruct the freedom to provide services. the rapporteur stressed that a consistent application of competition rules on interchange fees would reduce transaction costs for consumers and thus improve the functioning of the internal market. i also welcome the recommendation made by the rapporteur that all debit card transactions should have a maximum interchange fee of 0.2% and all credit card transactions should have a maximum interchange fee of 0.3% in all member states.
in writing. ‒ the effects of the economic crisis are also felt in car manufacturing, which is hurting many of the related sectors. one example is the automotive safety glass sector. for example, the belgian company saint-gobain sekurit is facing problems involving the redundancy of many employees, mainly due to the decrease in the production of automotive safety glass in the union and the increase in imports of these products in the same space. the company's activity was directly dependent on the production of cars, which in the period 2007-2012 decreased from 21,9 million units to 19,5 million units, and then recorded an operating loss of eur 20,46 million, which led to the laying-off of 507 workers. they are in a region where unemployment is relatively high, the socioeconomic context being to their disadvantage. it is very important that the workers made redundant receive financial aid of eur 1 339 928 from the edf. i voted in favour of the report because measures to support dismissed employees are absolutely necessary as an intermediate step towards their reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ saint-gobain sekurit had to close the auvelais site due to the increase in imports of safety glass for the car industry and to the subsequent decrease in production in the european union market. i voted in favour of this report to support reintegration of 257 workers into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i support the implementation of this european globalisation adjustment fund - egf application be/saint-gobain securit as the special rapporteur of the social democratic group in the european parliament for the egf.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is a financial instrument that allows for the allocation of money to people who lose their jobs as a result of the economic and financial crisis or because of the changes in the structure of world trade brought about by globalisation. unlike the structural and investment funds, which target strategic, long-term projects, this fund provides targeted and individual support limited in time. sgs benelux was a manufacturer of original equipment for automotive safety glass (windshields, side windows, etc.) supplying various automotive manufacturers, which implies that its activities were closely linked to production trends in the automotive industry. between 2007 and 2012, as a result of the global financial crisis, the activities of this company were severely affected, with the company recording losses of over eur 20,46 million. in january 2015, following the request to mobilise the egf by belgium, the european commission adopted a legislative proposal providing for the allocation of eur 1 339 928 from the egf in the form of commitment and payment appropriations. the european parliament report supports the allocation from the european globalisation adjustment fund of the requested amount.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to allocate eur 1.3 million for the retraining of 257 workers made redundant by saint-gobain sekurit in belgium. the redundancy was the result of the restructuring of the saint-gobain sekurit business as a result of global changes, but mainly because of the decline of the european market in the production of safety glass for transport. i welcome the adoption of this report and hope that, as the experience already gained at european level, and in this case through the egf, shows, the reintegration of displaced workers into the labour market will succeed.
madam president, last sunday was international women’s day, which is useful but hardly sufficient if we want to achieve gender equality. one of the most outrageous phenomena which disproportionately targets women and young girls is trafficking in human beings – a practice that severely affects member states from central and eastern europe. i welcome the emphasis in this report on poverty alleviation through job creation for women. in making women more economically resilient, they are less likely to be the target of human trafficking. however, the quality of jobs should also be taken into account to ensure a structural solution. another issue i find of great importance – that is also recognised in this report – is the economic empowerment of women through the provision of early childhood education and care services, an infrastructure which, despite the objectives formulated in 2002 at the barcelona european council, is still deficient in many member states, including my country.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it contains many aspects that violate the principle of subsidiarity. in other words, member states, under the lisbon treaty, have the right to decide in certain areas independently, taking into account the specific culture, traditions and values of each society. beyond speculation, equality between men and women has been a major concern throughout time. gender discrimination is likely to disrupt any society, regardless of its level of development. member states should seek to create a legal framework in which each individual can freely express himself in accordance with his conscience, in compliance with legal provisions, the principle that no one is above the law, good morals and, not least, mutual tolerance, regardless of race or ethnic origin, sex, nationality, religion or belief, disability, age and sexual orientation. the european union as a whole must ensure that individual rights and freedoms are respected and, whenever it detects irregularities, it must intervene firmly and unequivocally.
in writing. ‒ i strongly believe that the ec and the member states must promote effective measures to guarantee equal opportunities for women in agriculture, which must be a central objective in all relevant community policies at european level to improve the quality of life of women living in rural areas by ensuring their easiest access to education, social protection and vocational training, lifelong learning, effective and appropriate local public health services, infrastructure and services for children and families, in particular day-care centres, kindergartens, schools, cultural centres and local markets.
in writing. ‒ it is imperative to tackle poverty among women, especially older women and single mothers, but also women who have been victims of gender-based violence, women with disabilities, migrant women and those belonging to minorities. member states should respect the principle of equal pay and pay transparency and review their national legislation on equal treatment to modernise and simplify it with a view to eliminating, for example, cases where women do not receive the same pay while working in the same or equivalent jobs as men. financial independence is an essential means of ensuring equality, and therefore entrepreneurship among women should be promoted and supported by facilitating access to credit, reducing red tape and other obstacles for women starting a business.
in writing. ‒ i was particularly sensitive to single family difficulties, which affects mostly women. it is sometimes difficult for us as a two-parent family with one child to imagine how incredibly difficult it must be for a single working mother. childcare availability is crucial to the normal life of parents, all the more so for single parents. the fact that we still have no equal pay for equal work in europe is surreal. as president obama said in the state of the union address this year (more or less): hello, this is 2015!
in writing. ‒ i support this report on progress on equality between women and men in the european union in 2013 and which launches recommendations on equal treatment for women and men in the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report as it represents an important landmark in the fight for true gender equality in the union. we are still behind what should be true normality. half of the population of europe is still not fully represented, paid, protected and respected, and i believe that no effort should be spared in this fight.
in writing. ‒ i welcome and fully support the inclusion in rural development programmes of strategies to stimulate the implementation of new job opportunities for rural women, who already demonstrate a good entrepreneurial capacity in this sector. we need to lift the cultural, social and economic barriers that women face in relation to men, and not just in this sector. global studies show that women have the same entrepreneurial capacity as men, and europe must therefore be at the forefront of harnessing this.
in writing. ‒ competition policy and competitiveness in general are essential to the health and success of the eu as a whole and therefore of its citizens. through an effective competition policy, the european union can strengthen and enhance its role in the world. in this process, the european parliament has a very important role to play, by debating and drawing up competition policy in full compliance with the european treaties. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the european parliament must be an integral part of strengthening the dialogue on competition, both with the european commission and with the other institutions. eu competition policy has brought many benefits in terms of consumer welfare and has been a key instrument in removing obstacles to the free movement of goods, people, services and capital. that is why i believe that a consumer policy can only continue to be achieved with the active involvement of all the european institutions and, in particular, the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i am very pleased with the outcome of negotiations on this report. i would like to underline the remarkable result of defending public services from being subject to a policy of competition: the possibility for the member states to organise public services according to their own needs is a crucial point for our socialist and democrat group within parliament. in the amendments i proposed, i defended a stronger role by parliament in shaping our competition policy with the goal of increasing the level of market transparency, stability and growth. by means of this report, we are closer to achieving fundamental goals like ensuring fair competition and combating social dumping on the labour market, subjecting the services of general economic interest to the rules of competition, tackling fragmentation and anti-trust behaviour in the eu digital market, ending state-aid regimes to banks, and ending tax evasion and illegal corporate tax practices. although i do not agree with the inclusion of private attacks on google i do support, since the idea of the report was to put forward general rules, the adoption of the report in the plenary session.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. i think is important to underline the following points: we should have fair competition and combat social dumping on the labour market, an end to tax evasion and illegal corporate tax practices, and last but not least a co-decision right for parliament.
in writing. ‒ i support this annual report on eu competition policy, which highlights the issues at european level in this area and the collective effort to address them.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it helps bring much needed focus to the way the commission and member states, more importantly, deal with competition policy. competition can be the main source of market growth for the union, as long as it is protected, but not overburdened, and stimulated, but not subsumed to national interests. i am also strongly in favour of the wide-ranging coverage of the text and i think we do need to ensure member states coordinate properly to ensure a level playing field in competition policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european central bank's annual report for 2013 because it presents a realistic and objective picture of continued sluggish economic activity, weak gdp growth in the first three quarters of 2014, and high unemployment in the euro area member states, which has reached levels that threaten the stability of the euro area and undermine popular and political support for the european project. the european central bank should take into account in its enlargement policy the balance of bond purchases for eib projects, which finance some of the most productive investments in the euro area, in particular those projects identified by the commission as having european added value following a cost-benefit analysis, notably the ten-t project in the field of energy and transport and projects related to the digital single market, but also ensure that its policies are better adapted to the real economy, in particular as regards smes. economic growth and public investment are beneficial to complement the european central bank's policy efforts to increase employment and economic growth in europe.
in writing. ‒ the ecb annual report for 2013 is an instrument that expresses the accountability of the ecb to the european parliament. the ecb is an independent institution but its actions are evaluated by parliament through constant dialogue. the ecb’s actions prevented the collapse of the banking system and developed a climate of confidence in international markets with the consequent lowering of the cost of funding for the euro area. the report highlights these results and underlines the remaining challenges that characterise the euro area, such as low inflation and a high unemployment rate. for these reasons i voted in favour of the ecb annual report 2013.
in writing. ‒ fact: since mr draghi became ecb president in 2011, the ecb has become a much wiser policy tool for saving europe from its worst nightmare. things that were impossible beforehand because they were defying certain orthodoxies became ‘common currency. and it works.
in writing. ‒ i support this annual report on the activities of the european central bank for 2013. the ecb has in recent years demonstrated its ability to manage the crisis and to react to the financial problems of member states and/or the euro area. i hope that in the future the ecb's work will be even more sustained and creative in supporting job creation and the development of european entrepreneurship.
in writing. ‒ in march 2014, the european central bank (ecb) published its annual report for 2013. the report shows that, although the euro area economy emerged from recession during 2013, economic activity continued to feel the negative impact of the ongoing balance sheet adjustment process in the public and private sectors. the resolution welcomes the ecb's annual analysis, but notes that economic activity in the euro area remains very low, with a negative gdp growth rate in 2013. at the same time, high unemployment rates in several member states have reached worrying levels that threaten the stability of the area. another phenomenon that has unfortunately not been adequately addressed by the ecb's actions so far concerns the credit conditions for euro area smes and the gap between the funding rates for these enterprises and those for large enterprises. the resolution calls on the european central bank to continue its efforts and actions to date and to work with other relevant institutions at union level to ensure sustainable structural reform, ensure a level playing field for financial services and end subsidies for the commercial activities of large financial institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the annual report of the european central bank for 2013. i consider this to be a pertinent analysis of the ecb's activity and i appreciate the views expressed by the rapporteur on the measures that should be taken for a more effective monetary policy. i also welcome the attention with which the rapporteur has assessed the ecb's lending policy towards smes. the report points out that financial fragmentation remains a major problem in the eu, with some smes incurring much higher borrowing costs, particularly in those euro area countries that have already been affected by severe economic conditions, creating distortions in the single market, slowing recovery and amplifying divergences between member states.
the next item is the report by josé manuel fernandes, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on general guidelines for the preparation of the 2016 budget, section iii – commission (2015/2008(bud)) (a8-0027/2015).
madam president, every year the early phases of the budgetary procedure are always a good opportunity to reflect on what we want to achieve through spending the limited resources of the eu budget which we have at our disposal. what will be the priorities for the next year and how shall we use our eu funds in order to achieve these priorities? we all agree that the eu budget should be a budget for growth and jobs. eu money has to be used in those areas which make the european economy more competitive, stronger, and more attractive for investors and entrepreneurs. in that sense i very much welcome the approach of the rapporteur to focus this year on entrepreneurship, enterprises and employment. mr fernandes, i welcome the focus in your report on research, youth employment and sme financing. nevertheless, i also have to point out that the 2016 budget will have to address key issues such as the financing of the youth employment initiative. the commitments of the entire envelope have been frontloaded to the years 2014 and 2015 so the commission has to find additional resources to make this instrument work in the year 2016 and afterwards. in my view, the global margin for commitments is such an instrument and i really hope that it will provide sufficient resources to finance this project. all these priorities would have to be strictly tied to the obligation of the union to pay its commitments to the beneficiaries, which is a matter of credibility. we look forward to the commission proposal in that respect.
madam president, the european union must commit itself to an ambitious budget for 2016 that responds to the real needs and agendas of its citizens. that's why i have three proposals, three principles. the first direction concerns strategy: moving from a policy of promoting austerity to a creative and constructive policy for job creation or for innovation and development. the second line concerns how we think, in the principles of this draft budget, of a budget of cohesion and reduction of inequalities, based on ideas such as the youth guarantee or solidarity funds for new entrants such as romania, bulgaria or croatia, or those related to the neighbourhood policy and i would mention here the republic of moldova. the third direction concerns mechanisms, how we can allow everyone access to union funds, but also how we can ensure that the money is really used usefully and efficiently, in the interest of the citizen. commissioner, the budget is not a mere technical matter. it is more important than ever for the future of europe and i can therefore assure you that the european parliament will support you in this.
blue-card question.– in fact i would like to ask our colleague, mr zdechovský, about this forecast on the european union budget for 2016. this is, of course, a question that the commissioner and the commission should have to answer as well. what is his personal opinion concerning the budget allocated for the common security and defence policy? is this a budget that is going to fulfil our expectations, especially after president juncker’s declaration that the european union should have to form an army?
vice-president of the commission.– madam president, i would like to thank members, and i am sure we will have a very interesting time when we negotiate the budget. today’s debate has been a very good illustration of the fact that we are keenly interested in a sound financial base for our economies. let me make four very brief points. firstly, it is a crucial time to secure sustainability of growth in europe. in 2015, for the first year, we expect positive growth everywhere. i hope that will be the case also for greece despite some political changes there. should that be the case, the economy of europe would be finally coming out of a long, protracted crisis. but we will only succeed if we are fiercely determined to use the budget for that exact purpose: to help our investments and help growth. this is why my second point is: yes, the investment plan is very important because what it aims to do is to draw private sector investment on a large scale to complement what we do on the public sector side; that is essential. this takes me to the third point; if we are to succeed it will be shown in employment numbers. we know smes generate most of the jobs, so of course attention to smes is necessary; but attention to our innovative centres, to researchers and to small farmers is also necessary. this would be a predominant objective for us. last but not least, i would mention social impact and the equality that we aim for. luckily we continue to be the most equal region in the world and, even during the crisis, the gini coefficient – the most well—known measure for equality in the 28 countries – has gone down slightly from 30.9 to 30.4. but we all know that this is not across the board; that in many countries and many regions and many communities, inequality has gone up. that is why we have to be very mindful of how the benefit from our budget is spread so that it is as equal as we can possibly make it.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 11 march 2015. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by georgi pirinksi, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the annual report 2013 on the protection of the eu’s financial interests – fight against fraud (2014/2155(ini)) (a8—0024/2015).
reporting for the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. madam president, in the report on the protection of the union's financial interests we have tried to answer and include issues that are crucial to the protection of the union's financial interests, namely the protection of our money, the protection of the money of every european citizen. it's our money, all in one place, whether you're a romanian citizen, whether you're a german citizen or a citizen of any member state, and that's what we all need to understand: that we need to protect our citizens' money. european money is our citizens' money; their taxes and fees and the national public budget are paid into the european union and this is the money for european funds. i have given this explanation to everyone, so that it is clear that we are not talking about the financial interests of the union in the abstract, but about the money that actually comes from our citizens. and it's important to understand that there is a single basket into which all the money is poured, and as such, if the protection of european funds is well fought in one member state but poorly fought in another member state, everyone suffers because the money is in one place. so it's not true that if they steal more in ten member states, the rest are doing well because they're fighting their own fraud at home. and we're still here because it's common money. as such, we very much want to focus on effective combat. i thank the commission and commissioner georgieva for what they have said. i want to tell you that this is the sixth year in a row that i hear that the commission is pleased that we recommend and demand the distinction between irregularities and fraud. yes, we do, but this is not the first time we have asked for this: irregularities are administrative, fraud is criminal, but this is an old theme. i am glad that yesterday the libe committee adopted the interim report on the european prosecutor; i hope that this office with single rules to combat fraud with european funds will work throughout the european union and lead to efficiency, that is, everyone to investigate, to confiscate money and return it to the union budget.
in writing.– two points should be highlighted. fraud and errors are two different things, but both must be fought and not mixed up. the suspension of funds should not be automatic; it should be applied after all the existing measures for the protection of financial interests have been taken.
the question is "blue cardboard". madam president, allow me to speak in french. i would like to ask our colleague, mrs sánchez caldentey, who has given us a lot of dates on the ebola virus, if finally, after all the efforts that the international community has made for the three countries affected by the ebola virus, you do not believe that we should fight to have no cases of ebola infection in the region. only then can we say that we are on the right track.
mr president, let us not think that the problem of ebola is solved and let us not drop our guard. ebola remains contagious and lethal and we must manage to beat it before it can cause other deaths and perhaps change into an even worse, deadlier virus. i commend all international efforts and all the people who risked their lives in fighting ebola, including civilian and military personnel. but, at the same time, my plea is to continue with renewed efforts. the eu and other international actors, including the world health organisation, need to learn from the ebola case and make sure that conditions are in place to avoid something similar happening again. they need to be ready and to be able to identify potential emergencies, to be coordinated, to build up complementarity and compatibility, and to be able to give a prompt response including financial resources. it is fundamental that they cooperate with all those countries which showed deficiencies. we cannot allow ourselves to forget the case of liberia – 4 million people with 51 doctors. this is the very cause of the outbreak.
mr president, this is a very critical moment in the ebola crisis. firstly, substantial progress was made in slowing the epidemic as a result, mainly, of the international response. secondly, we have to underline the fact, unfortunately, that the response was very slow. there are new cases of ebola each and every day, especially in sierra leone and guinea. efforts have to increase. we cannot afford to allow such a deadly threat to mankind to be a secondary issue among our daily priorities. the first priority has to be to get to zero cases in the three countries, and the comprehensive recovery programme has to be implemented for all three countries as well. last but not least, the world must learn lots of lessons from the ebola crisis – mainly that a health crisis and a poor health system can very quickly become a huge development huge crisis, especially for the economy and education in those countries.
madam president, as stated by the commission, more efforts need to be made by the montenegrin government to combat corruption, fight organised crime, ensure transparent elections and reform the judiciary. moreover, the montenegrin government must also ensure that recent attacks on journalists be promptly investigated and that urgent prosecutions follow. however, i believe, considering the progress that montenegro has made since embarking upon accession negotiations, that these negotiations should not slow down if montenegro succeeds in acting upon the recommendations of the commission. i welcome last week’s statement by prime minister milo đukanović regarding the admission of montenegro to the nato alliance, the further progress made by the country in establishing a functioning market economy, and the commission’s conclusion that montenegro meets the political criteria for eu membership: all this has to be praised. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i think that you should wait, because a little later we are going to speak about serbia as well. in any case, i would like to tell you that we cannot afford, as member states of the european union, to leave a big hole in the middle of europe. all of these former yugoslavian countries and albania in the end, step by step, have to become members of the european union. we do not know when, but it is a yes.
blue-card question.– mr synadinos, it seems that because of the name of this country, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, we continue to keep this country in the balkans in quarantine, not only with the european union but with nato as well. do you not think that it might be time to start negotiations with this republic, because it deserves at a certain point at least to start negotiations and to somehow have the prospect of joining the european union and nato in the near future?
madam president, it must be said that, unfortunately, 2014 was not a very good year for macedonia in terms of political developments, in terms of the road to europe. macedonia has stagnated; unfortunately, it continues to stagnate today. what's been happening for the past few weeks - the huge political scandal there - only reinforces that perception. we also know that freedom of expression is not fully respected. we also know that there are many ethnic tensions and i would also say that the level of corruption is very high. in short, the political culture is far from being open and allowing macedonia to commit to the european path. therefore, i think the fundamental question that the political elites in macedonia have to answer is: yes or no? is there determination, is there resolve to make this journey? we also have to give a clear answer. i believe that support for opening negotiations could strengthen the conviction of those who fight for our ideals.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure i would like to ask you: considering that romania is also an orthodox country, should we also have links to get out of all the restrictions with russia?
madam president, romania is a neighbour country of serbia and i might say that we traditionally have a long friendship with this country and we support the european union perspective not only for serbia, but for all the former yugoslav republics, for albania and for the republic of moldova as well. i also believe that we need to be aware that work lies ahead for serbia. improvements are very much needed with regard to the rights of minorities, the freedom of the media, the lack of transparency and funding of political parties, the equal representation of men and women, corruption. i believe that in our negotiations with all the candidate countries we must keep our european priorities and values clear in our minds. the goal of achieving stability in the region is very important but we cannot forfeit our support and we have to defend the exercise of democratic values, rights and freedoms in the balkans. i very much support this process of european enlargement in south-eastern europe. at the same time, i believe that we must take a clear political position.
madam president, i would like to welcome the progress made in implementing the eu-serbia stabilisation and association agreement. i also welcome the commitment of the serbian government to the european integration process and believe that the legislation needs to be rigorously and consistently implemented at all levels. in this regard, they draw attention to the importance of the implementation of legislation on education, access to media and religious services in the languages of existing minorities and the representation of these minorities in local, regional bodies and in the national parliament. i also encourage the government of serbia to develop a concrete action plan on the position of national minorities in the framework of the action plan for negotiating chapter 23. serbia's presence within the union's borders will bring stability and prosperity not only to serbian citizens but also to european citizens, and good management of serbia's relationship with national minorities and neighbouring states will support the accession process. i commend my colleague, david mcallister, for his fair and balanced approach.
in writing. i support the integration of serbia into the european union. serbia's european path is a natural consequence and a right for the serbian people. in this respect, i am faithful to the position of my country, romania, in supporting serbia's european path. i would like to mention the situation of the wallachians/wallachians/romanians in the timoc valley. in the timoc valley alone there are, according to the last census, about 40 000 romanians, and the real number is perhaps even higher. this should not frighten the serbian authorities. active protection of this minority, but also support for its cultural and linguistic traditions, can only strengthen serbia on its european path as a unitary and indivisible state. i recommend that the european commission, together with the serbian authorities, support the vlach/romanian minority in serbia.
madam president, i welcome the resolution approved in the committee on foreign affairs and i believe it is a positive step forward. more efforts need to be made to strengthen the rule of law and the judiciary to combat corruption and organised crime, to reduce unemployment, enact structural economic reforms and promote sustainable development. i strongly support the amendments made by our group: the focus on the importance of transparent media, the role of women in government and progress in the negotiations with serbia. we, from romania, are following these negotiations very closely and we are going to take them into account. we need to increase cooperation in the fight against terrorism and radicalisation. we need, regarding the role of eulex, to have a broad and deep analysis in order to assess the overall effectiveness of the mission. a call for full transparency is crucial for the credibility of the european institutions.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure madam president, i see that you have started your speech by addressing the commission and the council. do you not think that the council and the commission should pay more attention to what we, the european parliament, are doing here? because, after all, we are accountable to the european citizens when the commission or the council makes a wrong decision.
blue-card question.– mr farage, what do you think we should do when russia, for example, is supporting the separatists with very modern armaments? should the european union do something to support ukraine in fighting in eastern ukraine or do you think that we should wait to fight in western ukraine for the stability of europe? do you not think that together we have to send a clear message of solidarity and unity from the european union regarding this important subject?
mr president, the european semester has indeed become a very useful instrument in coordinating the economic policies of the member states. but as we know, problems arise when a series of recommendations agreed between governments and the european commission are not implemented. one of the reasons for this is that national parliaments are not really involved, from the very first stage, in the process of what is called the european semester, when in fact governments present to the european commission their national reform programmes and convergence or stability programmes, as appropriate. this is why, when national parliaments examine draft budgets in the autumn, they end up not supporting a number of recommendations that should be reflected in national budgets. that is why i believe that national parliaments must be involved, involved throughout the european semester.
mr president, the s&d group has been in the frontline in the struggle for a new flexible approach to economic policies. this report clearly reflects the result of our clear position and our united stand against austerity. the report clearly welcomes the new approach, which focuses on investment and growth in europe, as opposed to the policies led by the former barroso commission. i am especially satisfied by the recognition that the adjustment burden in the eu must be shared between deficit and surplus countries. it is clear that the southern countries of europe affected by the recession cannot bear the entire cost of the reforms. this report fully expresses the principle of solidarity and balance among member states by recommending more investment by surplus countries in deficit countries.
mr president, as has already been recognised in the joint employment report, the proportion of neets and early school leavers is still dangerously high in the eu. similarly, structural unemployment has been increasing and labour market matching has worsened in many member states, resulting in millions of unfilled vacancies, especially in the it sector. i believe that the prieto report adequately takes these problems into account and i hope that our calls on the commission and member states to set right these imbalances will be duly taken into consideration. the solution lies in education systems that are better adapted to economic needs and that can engage students. also, in order to improve labour market mobility across sectors, investment must be made in continuous skills development and vocational training. however, in order to secure responsible economic governance, such supportive measures should not be exempt from fiscal and consolidation rules. (applause)
in writing. europe must implement a responsible policy focused on investment and quality jobs to ensure sustainable growth and to leave the future generation with jobs and not debt. the labour market is marked by significant inequalities in working conditions, and women are most at risk of living in poverty or social exclusion after the age of 55. on the other hand, female entrepreneurs and women-led smes face more problems in accessing finance and as such, viable solutions are needed to overcome these obstacles. we must not forget that poverty reduction is not only one of the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, but also a social responsibility for the member states, and that the creation of decent and sustainable jobs is the best way out of poverty.
in writing. currently, around 25.1% of the eu population is at risk of poverty or social exclusion. i believe that tailor-made policies need to be developed to support the creation of quality jobs for the long-term unemployed, older people without a job and other groups heavily affected by the crisis, such as immigrants, the roma community and people with disabilities, many of whom face the risk of social exclusion. the proportion of young people who are not in employment and who are not in education or training has remained high among the roma population. i believe that promoting employment opportunities for roma citizens in the member states through skills and qualifications that combat discrimination, and promoting job creation through self-employment and entrepreneurship, can lead to easier integration into the labour market, poverty reduction and adequate social protection. member states must guarantee access to the labour market for the most vulnerable members of society.
in writing. coordination of economic policies at eu level should lead to a reduction in regional disparities, job creation in areas of high unemployment and an increase in per capita income in low-income countries. we cannot talk about economic and monetary union as long as there are major differences between member states. i believe that mr juncker's investment plan is necessary, but i am concerned about the way it is being implemented. without taking account of the concrete situation on the ground, without having a geographical distribution of funds, social problems will be created that will have a boomerang effect on europe. the creation of an investment fund without a concrete mechanism to support smes - these being only mentioned in all documents - will lead to a concentration of capital in large companies. nothing concrete has been done to protect the eu market from unfair competition. i conclude by saying that, in addition to strategies, we need to have concrete measures. there are countries that have citizens living on the poverty line. the commission has a duty to implement the investment programme in such a way as to mitigate the effects of the economic crisis and to raise the standard of living of all european citizens.
in writing.– seven years after the beginning of the financial crisis, europeʼs economic recovery is still fragile. with high unemployment rates of nearly 25 million people across the eu, with 75 % of long-term unemployed persons under 35 years old, reinforcement of the employment and social aspects of the european semester and annual growth survey is fundamental to our economic recovery and social well-being of our citizens. the current report calls on the eu to shift its policies in the areas of employment and social policy towards growth-led policies which focus on the creation of quality jobs in europe in sustainable industries. the report also highlights numerous key points in this area, which include among other: reshaping policies to ensure the delivery of the europe 2020 targets, stepping up the fight against inequality, and introducing a minimum income scheme throughout the eu. the report also refers to the need to take radical measures to combat youth unemployment. in this context, i welcome the request to ensure an adequate budget for the youth guarantee in the multiannual financial framework review. improving the employment and social conditions of our citizens will allow us to deliver them a fairer and more inclusive socioeconomic reality, thus i welcome the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because, following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, there has been an alignment process and it needs to be ensured that the previous procedures for committees and ad hoc decision-making on trade policies have been aligned with the new regime of delegated and implementing acts. the scope sets out safeguard and surveillance instruments that may be applied to imports of products, including coal and steel, but excluding textiles, which are subject to a separate regulation. this regulation applies only to a limited number of countries, namely azerbaijan, belarus, kazakhstan, north korea, turkmenistan and uzbekistan. the safeguard instrument is rarely used in practice and, as regards supervision, the last surveillance measure in force, which expired on 31 december 2012, concerned steel products. the objective of the reform is to take into account the updating of the annex with a view to the deletion of the countries that have become members of the world trade organisation, namely armenia, russia, tajikistan and vietnam.
in writing. ‒ this proposal by the commission sets out safeguard and surveillance instruments which can be applied to import of products, including coal and steel, but excluding textiles, which are subject to a separate regulation. the regulation only applies to a limited number of countries, namely azerbaijan, belarus, kazakhstan, north korea, turkmenistan and uzbekistan. based on the favourable opinion of the committee on legal affairs, i supported adoption of this commission proposal unamended.
in writing. i voted for this report because, by the subject matter it presents, it once again underlines its importance on the eu agenda. the report sets out the common arrangements applicable to imports into the european union from several third countries. in essence, the european commission's proposal sets out safeguard and surveillance instruments applicable to imports of products from various third countries, including coal and steel. textiles covered by other legislation are excluded. the regulation applies only to certain countries, such as azerbaijan, belarus, kazakhstan, north korea, turkmenistan and uzbekistan, excluding countries such as armenia, russia, tajikistan and vietnam, which have become members of the world trade organisation.
in writing. ‒ there are frequent situations where a european legislative act has been amended several times over the years. this creates a difficulty for the european citizen, who will ultimately fail to understand what the essence of the legislative act is and which of the existing amendments is the one in force. the european commission, which has the right to initiate and propose draft legislation, has always taken on board and advocated the need for simple and clear legislation so that every european citizen can understand the legislative act and make use of the specific rights conferred on him by it. clarification of european legislation is done through a legislative procedure called codification of legislation. the legislative proposal which has been the subject of the european parliament's report aims to codify and reform council regulation (ec) no 625/2009 of 7 july 2009 on common rules for imports from certain third countries. the european parliament has voted in favour of the codification and reform of this regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation on common rules for imports from certain third countries. following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, an alignment process took place to ensure that the previous commissions and ad hoc decision-making procedures on trade policies were aligned with the new regime of delegated and implementing acts. during this exercise, the commission detected several errors which had to be corrected. the regulation voted today applies only to a limited number of countries, namely azerbaijan, belarus, kazakhstan, north korea, turkmenistan and uzbekistan.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of montenegro, of the other part, as that country has fulfilled the political criteria for accession to the european union, according to the latest reports of the european commission. montenegro has continued to play a constructive role in the region and to respect its international commitments, including the conditions of the stabilisation and association process. the country's macroeconomic stability has been maintained and some progress has been made towards a functioning market economy. however, montenegro needs to strengthen competitiveness by improving productivity and attracting new foreign direct investment in sectors other than tourism and real estate. the republic of montenegro has continued the alignment process throughout the reporting period and is now at different degrees of alignment to eu legislation.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the proposal as it is a straightforward codification of existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the rules contained in it lay down the procedures for implementing the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of montenegro, of the other part.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement, as i believe that we have to make more of an effort to bring the western balkans closer to the european union. montenegro is a country which has made a lot of efforts for reform and which deserves an increase in both trade and political ties with the eu, in anticipation of an ever closer relationship.
in writing. ‒ the european commission, which has the right to initiate and propose draft legislation, has always taken on board and advocated the need for simple and clear legislation, so that every european citizen can understand the legislative act and make use of the specific rights conferred on him by it. clarification of european legislation is done through a legislative procedure called codification of legislation. in order to ensure the rapid adoption of consolidated acts, the european institutions agreed in 1994 to use an accelerated procedure. the legislative proposal which was the subject of the european parliament's report concerns the codification of council regulation (ec) no 140/2008 of 19 november 2007 on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of montenegro, of the other part, and for applying the interim agreement between the european community, of the one part, and the republic of montenegro, of the other part. since the proposal for codification preserves in its entirety the content of the acts codified and merely groups them together, making only the formal changes required by the codification itself, the european parliament, by a unanimous vote, supports the proposal for the codification of the regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the consolidated text of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council opening and providing for the administration of certain union tariff quotas for high-quality beef and veal, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat, meslin, bran and other residues, as this consolidation procedure is intended to make the reports clearer and simpler without changing their substance. the purpose of this proposal is to codify the council regulation of 29 march 1994 opening and providing for the administration of certain community tariff quotas for high-quality beef and for pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat and meslin and for bran, sharps and other residues, and to replace it with the various acts incorporated therein. moreover, it preserves in its entirety the content of the documents thus codified and therefore merely makes the changes in form required by the codification operation itself.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the proposal as it is a straightforward codification of existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because, by means of this proposal for a regulation on the opening and administration of certain union tariff quotas for high-quality beef and veal, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat, meslin, bran and other residues, the european parliament and the council are able to regulate the administration of these eu tariff quotas.
in writing. ‒ codification of european legislative acts facilitates the understanding of eu law. this legislative procedure aims at clarifying the legislative act, but it cannot be used to introduce any substantive amendment to that act. the european institutions agreed in 1994 to use an accelerated procedure to ensure the rapid adoption of codified acts. the legislative proposal which was the subject of the european parliament's report concerns the codification of council regulation (ec) no 774/94 of 29 march 1994 opening and providing for the administration of certain community tariff quotas for high-quality beef and veal, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat, meslin and husks, bream and other residues. since the proposal for codification preserves in its entirety the content of the codified acts and merely groups them together, making only the formal changes required by the codification itself, and since the advisory working party of the legal services of the three european institutions recommends supporting this proposal, the european parliament, by a unanimous vote, supports the proposal for the codification of the regulation.
in writing. ‒ in the context of a people's europe, the commission attaches great importance to simplifying and clarifying union law in order to make it more legible and accessible to citizens, thus giving them greater opportunities to make use of the specific rights conferred on them. this approach cannot be implemented if there are numerous amendments to the provisions and these, after having been fulfilled at least 10 times, are not codified. codification does nothing more than provide greater legal certainty as to the law applicable to a specific issue. i voted in favour of the consolidation report because it preserves the content of the consolidated acts in its entirety, merely grouping them together, and only making the changes in the form of the act required by the consolidation procedure itself.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the proposal as it is a straightforward codification of existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it is the means by which the european parliament and the council are going to regulate the rules on 'importing agricultural products from turkey into the union'.
in writing. ‒ codification of european legislative acts facilitates the understanding of eu law. this legislative procedure aims at clarifying the legislative act, but it cannot be used to introduce any substantive amendment to that act. the european institutions agreed in 1994 to use an accelerated procedure to ensure the rapid adoption of codified acts. the legislative proposal which was the subject of the european parliament's report concerns the codification of council regulation (ec) no 779/98 of 7 april 1998 on the importation into the community of agricultural products originating in turkey, repealing regulation (eec) no 4115/86 and amending regulation (ec) no 3010/95. since the proposal for codification preserves in its entirety the content of the codified acts and merely groups them together, making only the formal changes required by the codification itself, and since the advisory working party of the legal services of the three european institutions recommends supporting this proposal, the european parliament, by a unanimous vote, supports the proposal for the codification of the regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this consolidation report because it preserves the content of the consolidated acts in its entirety, merely grouping them together and introducing only the changes in the form of the act required by the consolidation procedure itself. council decision no 1/98 on the association with turkey provides for the improvement and strengthening of trade preferences for imports into the union of agricultural products originating in turkey and lays down a number of preferential concessions for union exports of live meat and animal products. since 1996, turkey has been subject to a ban on the import of live bovine animals and restrictions on the import of beef. as a result of these measures, exports to turkey of the products concerned from the union are blocked. the measure to suspend certain concessions is therefore intended to protect the commercial interests of the union, which is to be welcomed.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the proposal as it is a straightforward codification of existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it is the means by which the european parliament and the council are to regulate the rules relating to the 'suspension of certain concessions on the importation into the union of agricultural products from turkey'.
in writing. ‒ codification of european legislative acts facilitates the understanding of eu law. this legislative procedure aims at clarifying the legislative act, but it cannot be used to introduce any substantive amendment to that act. the european institutions agreed in 1994 to use an accelerated procedure for the rapid adoption of codified acts. the legislative proposal which was the subject of the european parliament's report concerns the codification of council regulation (ec) no 1506/98 of 13 july 1998 establishing a concession to turkey in the form of a community tariff quota in 1998 for tree nuts and suspending certain concessions. given that the proposal for codification preserves the content of the codified acts in full and merely groups them together, making only the formal changes required by the codification operation itself, and taking into account that the advisory working party of the legal services of the three european institutions recommends supporting this proposal, the european parliament, by its unanimous vote today, supports the proposal for the codification of the regulation.
in writing. ‒ the agreement establishing the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm), in accordance with the provisions of article xiv of the fao constitution, was approved by the fao conference in 1949 and entered into force in 1952. amendments to this agreement were approved in 1963, 1976 and 1997. the european community acceded to the gfc on 16 june 1998 by decision 98/416/ec. the eu member states with an opening to the mediterranean and the black sea are also parties to this agreement. i voted in favour of this recommendation to establish a general fisheries commission for the mediterranean because the new agreement sets a clear overall objective, which is the biological, social, economic and environmental sustainability of living marine resources. it also introduces definitions of terms necessary for the correct interpretation of the agreement. furthermore, the functions of the gfcm are better defined, including the promotion of common fisheries management through multiannual management plans, the establishment of restricted fishing areas and the collection and dissemination of data. in this context, the new agreement integrates the core elements of the common fisheries policy with regard to the objective of maximum sustainable yield, the ecosystem, as well as the objective of the precautionary approach, reducing discards, combating illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the mutual interest in the development and appropriate use of living marine resources in the mediterranean and black seas, and convinced that the conservation and sustainable use of living marine resources in the area of application and the protection of marine ecosystems in which these resources are found play an important role in the context of blue growth and sustainable development. i agree with the rapporteur's position recommending the conclusion of this amended agreement.
in writing. ‒ considering the mutual interest in the development and the proper utilisation of the living marine resources in the mediterranean and the black sea and convinced that the conservation and sustainable use of the living marine resources in the area of application and the protection of the marine ecosystems in which those resources occur plays a major role in the context of blue growth and sustainable development, i approved the conclusion of the present modified agreement in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ the agreement establishing the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) entered into force in 1952, and the european union acceded to it in 1998 by decision 98/416/ec. the eu member states of the mediterranean and the black sea are also parties to this treaty. a first amendment to this agreement after the eu's accession to it occurred in 2013 and the cgpm contracting parties signed this amended document at the 38th annual session of the cgpm in 2014. i voted in favour of this report because it highlights the main changes contained in the amended agreement, including: 1. increasing the biological, social, economic and environmental sustainability of marine living resources; 2. more precisely defining the functions of the gfcm; 3. providing for various sanctions in the event of its members' non-compliance with the rules laid down in the agreement; and 4. establishing mechanisms for the settlement of disputes between its members.
in writing. ‒ the report by my colleague from the committee on fisheries, mr gabriel mato, is one in support of the amendments to the agreement on the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm), to which romania and bulgaria are co-signatories. the gfcm is a regional organisation whose objective is to manage fisheries and marine resources in a sustainable and rational way and to develop aquaculture in the black sea and the mediterranean sea. i believe that the gfcm, and therefore the agreement as amended today, is a very important agreement for romania and for the marine resources of our country. that is why i voted in favour of the amendments to the original agreement, which give the gfcm a clearer definition and functioning, a dispute settlement mechanism and increased powers to punish violations by signatory states.
in writing. - i voted for this report to lift immunity.
in writing. - i voted for this report to lift immunity.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the structural and investment funds at union level represent the largest part of investment expenditure in the union budget and play a key role in creating jobs, stimulating economic growth and promoting competitiveness and innovation. the eu's cohesion policy has been instrumental in supporting public investment in vital economic sectors and has delivered tangible results in practice that can enable member states and regions to overcome the current crisis and meet the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, and i therefore believe that both the commission and the member states must make every effort to swiftly adopt the remaining operational programmes in the coming months so that their implementation reaches the 'cruise-in' in 2016.
in writing. ‒ the european union budget is a real catalyst for growth, competitiveness and job creation across the eu, helping to improve the daily lives of citizens and trying to bridge the gaps between different geographical regions. i voted for this report because, through the budget allocated for 2016, the new eu programmes covered by the financial year 2014-2020 will become operational. the establishment of the 2016 budget will re-launch three major objectives: 'increase employment, develop businesses and entrepreneurship, for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in the european union'.
in writing. ‒ the level of investment in the eu has decreased significantly and the development gap between the different eu regions has increased due to the economic and financial crisis. consequently, we need a balance in setting the eu's budgetary priorities for 2016 and the timely identification of areas with a proven added value of eu-wide expenditure that will require further investment in the second half of the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework. the european fund for strategic investments has the potential to mobilise eur 315 billion in the form of investments in infrastructure, education and research, as well as in smes and mid-caps to offset the shortfall in public and private investment generated by the economic and financial crisis. we stress the complementarity and complementarity of the new investment plan and the eu budget. we would point out that the eu's financial commitment to the eib for the creation of this european fund for strategic investments needs to be examined with the utmost care. in conclusion, i voted in favour of the report on the general guidelines for the preparation of the 2016 budget.
in writing. ‒ an important point in the report, supported by the s&d group, was to avoid overzealousness. the interruption or, where appropriate, suspension of european funds (structural, rural development, direct payments) should only be made as a last resort and after all other reasonable measures to prevent or correct the deficiencies found have been exhausted and proved ineffective or unnecessary. suspension is the maximum punishment, it should not be given lightly.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because the fight against fraud, corruption and money laundering must be a priority for all member states. the report presents a number of concrete data on the evolution of this scourge and on the measures taken to combat it at european level. it was found that in 2013 the european commission received 15 779 irregularities, of which 14 710 were non-fraudulent and 1 609 were fraudulent, involving a sum of eur 2,14 billion. the report also points out that the number of unreported fraudulent irregularities has been increasing steadily, and this is a cause for concern. the report also reiterates the importance of olaf in managing this situation and welcomes the establishment of anti-fraud coordination services in the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the 2013 annual report on the protection of the eu's financial interests combating fraud. the protection of the eu's financial interests, together with the principle of sound financial management, should ensure that budget revenue and expenditure contribute to the achievement of the eu's priorities and objectives and enhance citizens' confidence by ensuring that public money is used in a transparent manner, in full compliance with the eu's objectives and policies and in the interest of the eu citizens. i voted for amendment no 11, which calls on the commission to resume the practice of interrupting and suspending payments to prevent irregularities and the risk of error in the proper use of eu funds. we ask the commission to report on the effective merit of these measures of interruption and suspension of payments in reducing irregularities and errors. in view of the current economic difficulties faced by member states and the insufficient resources available in the eu budget, the protection of the financial interests of the european union is of particular importance. as vice-president of the committee on budgetary control, i stress that eu funds must be managed properly and used in the most efficient way possible.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2014 progress report on montenegro because montenegro has opened negotiating chapters with the european union and expects that this candidate state will be assessed on its own merits, as any other candidate state, and that progress in preparing for accession will be based on increased dialogue with the european union. this resolution wishes to emphasise that montenegro has made progress in implementing reforms that guarantee the independence and efficiency of the judiciary, but also underlines that there is a polarised domestic political climate. in this context, the montenegrin government could focus on the state's eu accession agenda and engage in a sustained dialogue for constructive cooperation. active civil society participation, as well as active parliamentary scrutiny, are essential to ensure the inclusiveness of the reform process in the negotiations and the european integration process.
in writing. ‒ as stated by the commission, more efforts need to be made by the montenegrin government to combat corruption, fight organised crime, ensure transparent elections and reform the judiciary. moreover, the montenegrin government must also ensure that recent attacks on journalists are promptly investigated and that urgent prosecutions follow. however, i believe, considering the progress that montenegro has made since embarking upon accession negotiations, that these negotiations should not slow down if montenegro succeeds in acting upon the recommendations of the commission. i welcome last week’s statement by prime minister milo đukanović regarding the admission of montenegro to the nato alliance, the further progress made by the country in establishing a functioning market economy, and the commission’s conclusion that montenegro meets the political criteria for eu membership. all this has to be praised.
in writing. ‒ the western balkans and the issue of enlargement is a major moral, political and strategic problem of the european union. it will not go away, expectations will not go away, our historic experience and commitments will not disappear. it poses crucial, existential questions to the union itself, to its democratic legitimacy and support among its citizens. i wish i had an answer of my own to this huge conundrum, putting in the balance so many destinies on either side of the equation.
in writing. ‒ montenegro is one of the current candidate countries for accession to the european union. we voted for this report because it appreciates and encourages the progress that this country has made, but also the progress that it still has to make to become part of the eu. the report reiterates some of the very necessary criteria that must be respected and implemented and without which no state can join the eu: combating corruption, respect for human rights and the rule of law, independence and efficiency of the judiciary, ensuring freedom of expression and gender equality. the report also calls on all nato members, but especially eu member states, to actively support montenegro's accession to this structure as well.
in writing. ‒ the western balkans and the issue of enlargement is a major moral, political and strategic problem for the european union. it will not go away, expectations will not go away, and our historic experience and commitments will not disappear. it poses crucial, existential questions for the union itself, its democratic legitimacy and support among its citizens. i wish i had an answer of my own to this huge conundrum, putting in the balance so many destinies on either side of the equation.
in writing. ‒ fyrm is one of the countries that is ready to start negotiations with the eu and we have voted accordingly on this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report as it notes in general the efforts made by macedonia to reform and improve its legislation and practices in line with its european vocation. it is unfortunate that the name issue is still persists to this day and we deeply believe that it is high time to solve it and allow macedonia a full way into the eu in the future.
historically, culturally and economically, serbia, like the other western balkan countries, is part of europe. therefore, the accession of the country to the european union will only strengthen this natural state of affairs. the serbian government is aware that only the settlement of the situation of indigenous minorities living in the country and reconciliation with neighbouring countries and peoples can bring lasting progress to the long-suffering serbian society. i support the motion which calls on serbia to draw up a separate action plan on the situation of national minorities. the settlement of the minority situation in the western balkans is not a matter for the european union, it cannot be a mandatory task to be carried out under external pressure, but must be the expression of an internal need that can guide the processes towards normality. we hope that serbia will even be able to set an example for many eu member states, as experience shows that some member states, such as romania and slovakia, are making a step back in this area.
in writing. ‒ i believe we need to be aware that work lies ahead for serbia: improvements are very much needed with regard to the rights of minorities, freedom of the media, the lack of transparency in funding of political parties, equal representation of men and women, corruption etc. i believe that, in our negotiations with all the candidate countris, we must keep our european priorities and values clear in our minds: the goal of achieving stability in the region is very important but we cannot forfeit our support for and defence of the exercise of democratic rights and freedoms in the balkans. i support this process. at the same time i believe that we must take a clear political position. it is time for us to show that no state that wishes to join the eu can avoid complying with all fundamental european union democratic values.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report for the following reasons: i welcome the progress made in the implementation of the eu-serbia stabilisation and association agreement, the commitment of the government of serbia to the european integration process and the need for the legislation to be rigorously and consistently implemented throughout the country. this requires the implementation of legislation on education, the use of the national language, access to media and religious services in minority languages and representation of minorities in local, regional bodies and the national parliament. i welcome serbia's commitment to the development of a concrete action plan on the position of national minorities in the framework of the action plan for chapter 23 of the negotiations. i am confident that serbia's presence within the eu's borders will bring stability and prosperity to both serbian and european citizens, and that good management of the relationship with minorities will support the accession process.
in writing. ‒ the western balkans and the issue of enlargement is a major moral, political and strategic problem of the european union. it will not go away, expectations will not go away, our historic experience and commitments will not disappear. it poses crucial, existential questions to the union itself, to its democratic legitimacy and support among its citizens. i wish i had an answer of my own to this huge conundrum, putting in the balance so many destinies on either side of the equation. that is why i have voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ serbia started eu accession negotiations on 21 january 2014. the european union, through its institutions, appreciates the efforts of the serbian government to align itself with the eu requirements imposed on all states wishing to be part of it. we voted in favour of this resolution, which stresses the progress made by serbia, which currently holds the osce chairmanship, on the road to accession, but also the measures still needed, such as the promotion of democracy, the rights of national minorities (vlachi, romanians, vlasi), the protection and application of human rights at all levels of serbian society, without discrimination and in accordance with european standards.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the european parliament's resolution adopted today on the progress made so far in serbia's accession to the european union. i voted in favour of the resolution and i particularly appreciate that the rapporteur has also taken account of the rights of national minorities, such as the right to use their mother tongue, to receive education and information in their mother tongue, and to be represented at local, regional, administrative and parliamentary level. i welcome, however, the recommendation to emphasise the restitution of church and religious community property confiscated from national minorities by the former communist regime, without which religious freedom in serbia cannot be guaranteed.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the resolution approved in the committee on foreign affairs and i believe it is a positive step forward. more efforts need to be made to strengthen the rule of law and the judiciary to combat corruption and organised crime, to reduce unemployment, enact structural economic reforms and promote sustainable development. i strongly support the amendments made by our group: the focus on the importance of transparent media, the role of women in government and progress in the negotiations with serbia. we, from romania, are following these negotiations very closely and we are going to take them into account. we need to increase cooperation in the fight against terrorism and radicalisation. we need, regarding the role of eulex, to have a broad and deep analysis in order to assess the overall effectiveness of the mission. a call for full transparency is crucial for the credibility of the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from the vote on the european integration process of kosovo in line with romania's official position on this issue.
in writing. kosovo still faces a number of challenges to its international recognition. the fact remains that even five eu member states still do not recognize the state. however, even in this situation, it is necessary and pragmatic for the union to communicate and cooperate with kosovo in a number of areas. it is essential to monitor the rights of minorities, not only serbs but also smaller groups such as roma, kosovar egyptians and ashkali. of course, the level of corruption or the state of the economy and the rule of law also remain a problem in kosovo. cooperation with kosovo is also important because of the radicalization and attempts to join the ranks of islamist extremists in syria and iraq in this balkan country. the report on the state of the union's contacts with kosovo is balanced in my view and deserves support.
in writing. ‒ as in previous years, i voted against the lunacek report on the process of european integration in kosovo. and that is not because i do not wish for a better future for the people of kosovo, but because, as has happened in previous years, the position of the member states which do not recognise kosovo is not taken into account. the call to these states, in paragraph 20, to proceed with such recognition is in flagrant contradiction both with the fact that state recognition is a national competence and with the idea of neutrality with regard to the status of kosovo, which underlies european policies on this issue. moreover, this year the lunacek report establishes an unacceptable link between the recognition of kosovo and the process of normalising relations with serbia. it is clear that the two processes are distinct and are also managed separately at institutional level. if recognition is a matter for member states alone, the normalisation process with serbia is a bilateral process, managed by the european external action service.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament resolution on kosovo, adopted today by the plenary, provides an objective analysis of the progress made by this country in its process of accession to the european union. the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in kosovo, in which it calls on the government of kosovo to take all necessary measures to ensure that the situation in kosovo is brought under control. i voted in favour of this resolution and i also welcome the fact that the text of the document contains recommendations to the kosovo authorities concerning the necessary investments in the education system of ethnic communities and disadvantaged communities.
in writing. ‒ the slowdown in economic growth in 2014 demonstrates that the union economy is facing the lingering effects of the recession and that recovery is being hampered by short-term cyclical phenomena that highlight structural problems that need to be addressed. we need better coordination of economic policies to avoid transitional measures that could affect long-term growth. a functioning single market is conditional on an integrated economy, which has the capacity to manage its own resources efficiently by exploiting the economic potential of the member states. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that boosting investment is the key to economic recovery and restoring confidence would help to strengthen a more attractive economic climate for investors. the commission's ambitious juncker initiative plays an important role in increasing the return on public investment and accountability of spending. by attracting private capital to public investment, the european fund for strategic investments is a tool for coordinating investment policies at european level.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the euro area is still struggling with the effects of the particularly long economic recession since 2008 and that the recovery is still fragile and should be strengthened to generate much stronger growth and more jobs in the medium term. i believe that it is necessary to ensure that short-term and long-term policies are mutually reinforcing and i also believe that reforms are needed to facilitate a new entrepreneurial environment, to stimulate the creation of new businesses and to make new investments and innovations, the returns on investment that could be made being a vital factor in attracting financial capital to the european economy.
in writing. ‒ the s&d group has been at the forefront of the struggle for a new, flexible approach to economic policies. this report clearly reflects the result of our pressures and our united stand against austerity. the report clearly welcomes the new approach, which focuses on investment and growth in europe as opposed to the policies pursued by the former barroso commission. i am especially satisfied with the recognition that adjustment burden in the eu must be shared between deficit and surplus countries. it is clear that the southern countries of europe affected by this dramatic recession cannot bear the entire costs of reforms. this report fully expresses the principle of solidarity and balance among member states by recommending more investment by surplus countries in deficit countries. it respects the european rules that the position of surplus countries must also be addressed by the european commission.
in writing. ‒ the european semester has become, in a relatively short period of time, part of europe's institutional culture and, moreover, is increasingly part of national policy-making culture. the previous open method of coordination, one of the most direct ancestors of the european semester, was treated more or less as a joke; it was an exercise for academics more than practitioners. now we can see how very powerful member states - whether they like it or not - take the european semester seriously and explain and defend their choices. even when they try obtain exceptions from the rules, they still explain themselves in relation to those rules, which are thus confirmed and strengthened. we now have an enriched process, with a clearer social dimension (juncker's 'social triple a' is a great metaphor and - it is to be hoped - much more than that) and decent flexibility with the 'moscovici package'. it is almost mystical how europe, painfully, finds resources to fix itself after crises.
in writing. ‒ economic recovery is one of the european union's objectives, aimed at reversing the economic downturns that have occurred as a result of the global financial crisis in recent years. i voted in favour of this very important report because it contains a number of concrete proposals for the economic recovery of the union.
in writing. ‒ i believe that it is necessary to identify important macroeconomic and macro-social imbalances within the eu and euro area economies and to formulate on this basis country-specific recommendations prepared in the framework of the european semester, including measures aimed at convergence of labour and social standards and coordination of wage setting.
in writing. ‒ this report focuses on the employment and social aspects of the annual growth survey. it calls for the european union to shift its policies in this area towards growth-led policies which focus on the creation of quality jobs in europe in sustainable industries. it also highlights numerous s&d key points in this area, such as the need to have a refocusing of policies so as to achieve the europe 2020 targets, the fight against inequality, the need to move away from jobless growth, combating youth unemployment, giving smes adequate tools with which to operate, voluntary mobility and shifting taxation from labour to capital. the report also makes reference to the need to introduce a minimum income scheme throughout the eu and stresses that the employment and social considerations in the european semester should be put on a par with macroeconomic ones. we also call for a larger role for the european parliament in drafting and approval of the ags and the economic and employment guidelines. accordingly, i supported adoption of this report in plenary.
in writing. ‒ the report focuses on the employment and social aspects of the annual growth survey. the report has some good points, such as the need to have a refocusing of policies so as to achieve the europe 2020 targets, the fight against inequality, the need to move away from jobless growth and combating youth unemployment. it also stresses that the employment and social considerations in the european semester should be on a par with macroeconomic ones. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the european semester has become, in a relatively short period of time, part of europe's institutional culture and, moreover, is increasingly part of national policy-making culture. the previous open method of coordination, one of the most direct ancestors of the european semester, was treated more or less as a joke; it was an exercise for academics more than practitioners. now we can see how very powerful member states - whether they like it or not - take the european semester seriously and explain and defend their choices. even when they try to obtain exceptions from the rules, they still explain themselves in relation to those rules, which are thus confirmed and strengthened. we now have an enriched process, with a clearer social dimension (juncker's 'social triple a' is a great metaphor and, it is to be hoped, much more than that) and decent flexibility with the 'moscovici package'. it is almost mystical how europe, painfully, finds resources to fix itself after crises.
in writing. ‒ according to the figures recorded, most recently in 2013, the socioeconomic situation of the european union is quite sensitive. in this context, long-term unemployment at eu level is one of the highest at 5,1% of the labour force, while 25,1% of the union population is at risk of poverty or social exclusion. i voted for this report because it brings a series of extreme measures necessary for post-crisis economic, financial and social rehabilitation. the commission's policy on the environment is based on the principle of sustainable development, which is the basis for the eu's policy on the environment. the commission's policy on the environment is based on the principle of sustainable development.
in writing. ‒ i supported and voted in favour of this report because it highlights the serious impasse in the european union's economy, which results in economic downturns or small and unsustainable growth, with extremely serious effects on the rate of unemployment, poverty and social exclusion. the report shows that economic disparities between member states have widened and the number of unemployed in the eu has reached a historic high of 25 million people. in this context, the rapporteur calls on the commission, the member states and the european investment bank to reconsider and recalibrate the funds allocated to strategic investments. the eu's choice to respond to the crisis and lack of productivity by cutting costs has moved us further away from the europe 2020 goals of building economies on sustainable, sustainable foundations with investments that create quality jobs. it is important that these investments are made in areas where they spread and create jobs, and investments in human capital are, in my view, those that have the greatest contribution both in the medium and especially in the long term, being the only ones that can ensure sustained growth of the eu economy.
in writing. ‒ the governance of the european single market takes account, in all its areas, first of all of the needs of consumers and of the mechanism for the supply of goods and services in the interests of european citizens. we are still facing a stratification of markets and the uniform implementation of community legislation in all member states is still facing difficulties. the functioning of the single market is also dependent on the application of rules to ensure the clarity and operability of european policies. there are also optimistic signs: according to the now casting economics study, in the first quarter of 2015, the euro area grew by 0.4%. a timid result, but promising, given the positive trend of the last six months. i voted in favour of this report because strengthening the euro area economy is essential and achieving this process involves removing obstacles and unnecessary bureaucratic burdens that stand in the way of development.
in writing. ‒ the crisis has shown that the eu needs to act to improve its economic model and restore competitiveness. this requires a combination of sound public finances, structural reforms and targeted investment. europe 2020 is the eu's strategy to boost sustainable growth and job creation, and the single market has a key role to play in this process. however, the single market is not currently realising its full potential. the eu needs to support member states to do more cross-border trade in services and take urgent action to keep up with the changes in digital technologies. europe needs a single market fit for the 21st century that enables european businesses to stay ahead of the competition and allows consumers to enjoy access to high-quality products and services across the eu. the relaunch of the single market is helping to re-ignite the engine of growth and employment in europe and ultimately to multiply opportunities for citizens. the first challenge is therefore to empower citizens to become full actors in the single market.
in writing. ‒ i think the commission should introduce a new methodology for the quantitative targets for reducing administrative burdens at european level. in view of the positive experiences in some member states in setting net reduction targets to reduce compliance costs, i consider it necessary to discuss this methodology in the framework of the commission's new initiative to reduce administrative burdens.
in writing. ‒ this report stresses the need to consolidate single market governance by establishing an annual single market governance cycle as a specific pillar of the european semester, with the aim of revitalising the european economy through a well functioning, deeper and fairer single market capable of boosting sustainable growth, quality jobs, competitiveness and social cohesion, attracting investment and strengthening the european industrial base. a consistent package of compromises adequately endorsing s&d priorities has been negotiated and successfully adopted. the final text concentrates on the single market as a pillar of the european semester and on its untapped potential in key growth areas, notably in the digital single market, and its governance. i therefore voted in favour of the gall pelcz report.
in writing. ‒ the european semester has become, in a relatively short period of time, part of europe's institutional culture and, moreover, is increasingly part of national policy-making culture. the previous open method of coordination, one of the most direct ancestors of the european semester, was treated more or less as a joke; it was an exercise for academics more than practitioners. now we can see how very powerful member states - whether they like it or not - take the european semester seriously and explain and defend their choices. even when they try to obtain exceptions from the rules, they still explain themselves in relation to those rules, which are thus confirmed and strengthened. we now have an enriched process, with a clearer social dimension (juncker's 'social triple a' is a great metaphor and, it is to be hoped, much more than that) and decent flexibility with the 'moscovici package'. it is almost mystical how europe, painfully, finds resources to fix itself after crises.
in writing. ‒ the single market is the economic strength of the european union, giving it the opportunity to become the world's economic engine. the economic crisis of recent years has unfortunately affected this market of 500 million people. i voted for this report because through it the european parliament is coming up with a series of measures which are very much needed to bring the single market back to health. building the single market pillar in the european semester is one of the measures that requires a clear set of priorities related to the real economy and the main areas of economic growth. the free movement of goods, services, public procurement and concessions, the digital single market, consumer protection legislation (the acquis), but also energy and transport are key areas to be exploited because, by developing them, the single market will also become more efficient and globally competitive.
in writing. ‒ although 20 years have passed since its creation, the single market has not been fully defined. due to the financial crisis, the level of investment has fallen by around eur 430 billion from the peak reached in 2007. although many tools exist at union level to measure the economic performance of the single market in the context of the european semester, they have so far had no clear impact. sustained efforts by all member states are therefore needed to overcome this difficult period and to ensure a sustainable economic recovery of the union. the report adopted by the european parliament draws attention to the need to strengthen the single market and calls on the european commission to present as soon as possible a report on the state of play of the integration of the single market.
in writing. ‒ the sexual exploitation of children online is a flagrant violation of fundamental rights and a particularly serious criminal act that requires immediate and concerted action to identify those who are committing it. while i support free and confidential access to the internet, i believe that child sexual exploitation online needs to be subject to clear rules and that such abuse can be easily identified. anonymous online communities, information encryption, or electronic payment methods using virtual currencies make it very difficult to track suspects. therefore, common measures should be established to allow access to data streams with suspicious destinations. i support this resolution and categorically oppose any abuse against minors in the virtual environment! i am convinced that data service providers can contribute more effectively to identifying and blocking the perpetrators.
in writing. ‒ sexual abuse of and sexual exploitation of children, including child abuse imagery, are serious violations of the fundamental rights of children as laid down in the 1989 united nations convention on the rights of the child and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the internet can expose children to material of sexual exploitation, to 'cyber predators', to exchanges of material containing violent content, to intimidation, harassment or sexual enticement of children. measures to combat such offences should be centred on the best interests of the child and be in line with the rights of the child. serious offences such as the sexual exploitation of children and images of child abuse require a comprehensive approach that includes the investigation of the offences, the prosecution of offenders, the protection of child victims, and the prevention of such offences.
in writing. ‒ i believe that international cooperation with the eu's strategic partners and law enforcement authorities around the world is needed to combat the proliferation of child sexual exploitation material. i believe that both the commission and the member states need to strengthen their cooperation between law enforcement authorities, including through europol and the european cybercrime centre (ec3), in order to investigate, dismantle and prosecute networks of persons guilty of sexual offences against children more effectively, while giving priority to the rights and safety of the children involved.
in writing. ‒ directive 2011/93/eu of the european parliament and of the council of 13 december 2011 aims to combat sexual abuse, sexual exploitation of children and child pornography, and harmonises criminal offences relating to sexual abuse committed against children throughout the eu. it also lays down the common minimum sanctions for the offences. i therefore voted in favour of adoption of the report in plenary.
in writing. - it's one of the most disgusting abuses that exponents of the human race are capable of. fighting him is a noble and compulsory cause for any man of sound mind.
in writing. ‒ sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children are serious violations of children's fundamental rights, in particular their right to care and protection, as laid down in the eu charter of fundamental rights, but also in the un charter. i voted in favour of this resolution because, in addition to a number of measures it proposes to combat this scourge of child sexual abuse on the internet, it reiterates the need to adopt and implement two european directives whose transposition into the national law of each member state would help to make it easier to detect, combat and resolve such abuse, namely directive 2011/93/ec on combating the sexual abuse of children, sexual exploitation of children and child pornography, which has been transposed in less than half of the member states, and directive 2012/29/eu laying down minimum standards on the rights, support and protection of victims of crime.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution because i believe that child sexual abuse on the internet is a current problem, of great gravity for the society in which we live. i think that we as adults, parents or not, are forced to accept that this phenomenon is closer to us than we can imagine. as legislators, we must do everything legally possible to combat it and punish those responsible. in this case of online sexual abuse, it's also important to educate the public about the risks, to explain to people how to protect themselves and their loved ones from becoming victims of deviant individuals. i believe that this resolution is a constructive way of drawing attention to this problem and offering solutions to the member states, and that is why i am voting in favour of this approach today.
mr president, i always have to speak after statements like that. i'm a little embarrassed, but that's the way it is. i would like to point out a tragic coincidence: on february 27, 2014, the crimean parliament was occupied. one year later, on the same day, in the streets of moscow, right next to the kremlin, this horrible murder of boris nemtsov takes place. there is a strong connection between these two events. this is not just a coincidence of the calendar, because we know that the political author of both of these acts is vladimir putin. even if, indeed, a year ago he pretended to be completely ignorant of what is happening in crimea, now, for him, the question of crimea's belonging is no longer debatable. we know that this is unacceptable. as for boris nemtsov, we've just learned that the perpetrators are chechens. but as prime minister kasyanov explained very well this morning at the meeting of our foreign affairs committee, this is practically impossible - a close associate of boris nemtsov explained it to us - because boris nemtsov had excellent relations with this people. so it is unacceptable, and in this particular case we see both sides: the inner side, namely the crimes committed by the regime inside, and the outer side of the putin regime, which is aggressive, violent but which unfortunately has produced supporters, as we have seen here. these divisions in europe are a strategy of putin's and unfortunately we have colleagues here who fall into this trap. it's horrible, the extreme left and the extreme right mixed together. (the president cut the speaker off)
blue-card question.– i would like to ask our colleague and friend: do you not think that there are lots of rifts between the european union countries concerning a common foreign and security policy? do you not see that there are european leaders that are approaching russia in a different way and do you not think it is time for unity, solidarity and common positions towards russia between the european union countries?
on behalf of the s&d group.– madam president, this year’s report is a welcome departure from the usual pattern of the last few years, primarily because it places the global order under an increasing challenge to the centre of its discourse. mr brok’s report starts correctly with a thorough analysis of the current strategic environment, noting that our neighbourhood – both east and south – is in turmoil, while the eu has become inward—looking. defence, where the latest developments indicate a change of security paradigm in europe, is another field of attention. through the illegal annexation of crimea, russia gets a new kaliningrad—type of outpost, this time on the black sea. the author considers that the eu could and should do more with respect to defence – exemplifying with territorial defence relations with nato, the fight against cyber-attacks and the response to new phenomena, such as the hybrid war employed by russia against ukraine. under the new circumstances created by the illegal annexation of crimea and the subsequent destabilisation of ukraine, relations with russia, including in the energy sector, require a revisitation. with respect to the southern neighbourhood, the report is asking for a thorough revision of the policy instruments and methods employed by the eu, unequivocally condemning isis, what it represents, its ruthless, inhuman tactics and illegal dealings generating important financial resources. the usual references to other countries and regions of interest to the eu, the backbone of the previous reports, are now placed in the larger perspective of the global world order. in that context, mr brok underlines the importance of strengthening transatlantic relations, particularly through the signing of the ttip, the strategic answer of the west to all challenges in the current world order, allowing for the continuation of western centrality to the current international system. in conclusion, this report is a new, substantive and therefore valuable approach by the parliament to the high representative/vice-president’s external activity on behalf of the eu. mr brok deserves praise for the serious work done and his extremely good cooperation with the shadow rapporteurs.
madam president, the european parliament is adopting a truly strategic report this week and i want to congratulate the rapporteur and thank him for the openness he has shown, proving by our vote that he will get impressive political support. it is a strategic report at a time when the geostrategic context is changing. this report is important because it is the moment to reiterate our commitment to consistently support the european union's efforts on the international stage. to this end, we need to return to the full use of the instruments offered by the lisbon treaty and maintain a proactive, united and coherent approach to the union's foreign and security policy. the cohesion of our union is essential: it implies close coordination and cooperation between trade agreements and the provision of energy resources, on the one hand, and the objectives of foreign, security and defence policy, on the other. it is time for the european union to have an effective and recognised contribution to the middle east and africa: as a promoter and facilitator of a two-state solution for israel and palestine, as a credible partner in the fight against da'esh and other groups belonging to the global terrorist threat, as a leader in humanitarian aid for millions of victims. it is also time to be tough and united on russia, to condemn without hesitation the russian-led and supported war in eastern ukraine, to react to russian propaganda and to use this moment to take all necessary measures to ensure energy security.
madam president, the security situation around the eu is increasingly grave, both to the east with regard to ukraine and russia and to the south where terrorism is spiralling out of control. this is a serious challenge for eu foreign policy, since we must respond effectively and strategically without for one second losing sight of our core european values. everything we do must foster democracy and the rule of law as well as human rights for all. i would like to underline the need to focus our attention on our vital role in bringing peace and stability to the middle east, and also the need to rethink the common foreign and security policy, with a stronger foreign policy role for the union. religious extremism and terror are not only costing thousands of lives in syria, iraq and elsewhere but also increasingly pose a threat to our own national security. therefore, i welcome ms mogherini’s decision to cooperate closely with the eu counter-terrorism coordinator because i believe that the better the coordination among us, the more effective european foreign and security policy will be.
according to the rule established by my predecessor, there are no blue cards. i am sorry about this.
you are right. therefore you have one minute to speak.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 12 march 2015. (the sitting was suspended for five minutes)
written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the report by pier antonio panzeri, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the annual report on human rights and democracy in the world 2013 and the european’s union’s policy on the matter (2014/2216(ini)) (a8-0023/2015).
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, i would like to begin by congratulating the author of the report, mr panzeri. we are at the end of several months of reflection, of negotiations between the political groups of the parliament, and i would like to say that, from my point of view, i am pleased to see that the text we are voting on tomorrow correctly reflects the concern of the epp group for the protection and promotion of human rights and democracy. i insist on this twofold component: it is also about human rights and democracy. they're two different things, but to us they're related and that's where i think we should start and put in the context of this report. i think that mr panzeri's report, in the form we have arrived at, underlines very well the union's attitude towards human rights and democracy. i think we should be proud of the way we see democracy and human rights respectively. i say this also after the stormy debate we had earlier when, unfortunately, one of our colleagues stated here in the plenary that, from the point of view of democracy, russia would be better off than the union. i think the report shows very well why a country like russia is not better off than the union in terms of democracy and, of course, in terms of human rights. i mean, if the union is promoting human rights and democracy outside of itself, it must of course respect those rights inside, but this report is not about the human rights situation inside the union and inside the member states. i say this because i have had various discussions with my colleagues in the libe committee who have, quite frankly, said that this matter is being dealt with in that committee. the european union should not suggest to the member states what decisions to take, for example, on the legalization of abortion or same-sex marriage. we believe in the principle of subsidiarity, we believe that these issues are a matter of conscience and i would like to thank mr panzeri for the openness he has shown in dealing with these issues.
it's also a blue card slightly disguised, but we'll get over it.
mr president, i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate mr panzeri on the content of his report and on the balanced and professional approach he has taken to the matter. in the context of the celebration of international women's day, i would like to refer in my speech to violence against women through the practice of selective abortion and forced child labour, these shameful practices being some of the major human rights violations today. according to the report published by the french institute for demographic studies, selective abortion of female fetuses is expanding rapidly and affects countries in the western balkans and central asia, where the birth imbalance between the number of girls and boys is very high. it is therefore essential to include the issue of sex-selective abortion in the european union's guidelines on violence against women and girls by creating indicators and data collection methods on this phenomenon and including it in the plan for the development and implementation of country human rights strategies. on the eradication of forced child labour, i welcome the progress made and stress that it is our role as members of the european parliament to continue to promote at union level an environment conducive to the prevention and elimination of this practice.
madam president, the human person and human dignity are the central element around which all the european union's actions are based. the protection of human rights must be the main point on the roadmap of a country in the eu and beyond. terrorism in its various forms increased alarmingly in 2013 by 62% compared to 2012, and the number of countries affected increased from 15 to 24. recent terrorist attacks in european countries, which have resulted in human casualties, the frequent threats of the islamic state against the background of religious and interethnic intolerance, especially in the arab world, as well as the conflict situation in ukraine, are just a few examples of threats to the security of citizens. human rights must continue to be an essential component of the european union's external action and a true element of its identity in bilateral relations.
madam president, the report rightly draws attention to the importance of the free exercise of the right of assembly and association and calls on the member states to condemn any restrictions on the freedom of assembly and association. in one eu member state, romania, just this week, a peaceful protest march was banned because its political goals, the issues it raised, were not agreed with the political organizations in power. the protest would have taken place in an ethnically mixed city that was the scene of violent clashes exactly 25 years ago. restrictions on the right to assembly are clearly an established practice of undemocratic systems. it would be good to remind romania of this, which officially claims to have dealt with the problem of national minorities in an exemplary manner. this arrangement seems to mean that minorities are also deprived of the opportunity to peacefully protest democratically. i believe that the occurrence of such cases in the european union undermines our own credibility when we criticise the relevant practices of third countries.
madam president, i thank the rapporteur, mr panzeri, for the tremendous job he did with this report on the crucial issue of human rights. i especially appreciate the introduction of a push for the rights of women; for the rights of children; for the rights of religious, racial, ethnic minorities and for the rights of minorities in general. these persons are a part of society that is highly discriminated against in most countries of the world and that needs greater government protection and support. the european union must clearly lead the way with a swift approach to the subject. societies must change from within, and governments can play important roles in education about and respect for freedom. there should be conformity of rights inside our borders so that the people are not forced to change state in order to see their rights respected. i consider this report to be highly strategic, especially when it states that the european union when dealing with other nations must exert greater pressure on respect for human rights.
madam president, i would say to the vice—president/high representative that theatre is not the solution for libya – definitely not. we should refrain ourselves, and others also, from playing theatre in trying to solve the libyan crisis. time passes, and we do not yet have good news from libya, with the threat of daesh increasing and attacks conducted on libyan territory, including the beheadings of 21 egyptian christian copts. the official affiliation of boko haram to daesh is already a fact which heavily increases the danger for the region. meanwhile, hundreds of thousands of libyans are crossing the mediterranean. in libya institution-building is the key problem and here europe should play a key role, together with the regional and interregional partners. i am very much encouraged by the fact that the two conflicting sides finally negotiated face to face in morocco because a government of unity to control the entire country is very necessary; it is the most important step.
i have listened with interest to the eu's efforts to support the peace process in mali. i think it's extremely important, and it's been said here. it is possible to stabilize the situation in the country if the ceasefire agreement between the malian government and the tuaregs is moved to a more stable peace agreement. the eu can help in this, both by putting pressure on the tuareg and on the malian government. we have seen in recent years that there has always been an attempt to conclude some kind of ceasefire agreement and that attempt has failed. he also failed because the government in mali was unwilling to respect a measure of autonomy or self-government for the tuareg. only this stable agreement can lead to the suppression of islamic fundamentalism and the attacks we condemn, and to the prevention of the rise of islamists in mali. i consider this extremely important and also condemn the attacks, which unfortunately also affected eu citizens.
madam president, i greatly deplore the violent terrorist attacks last weekend that should not disrupt the efforts for peace in mali. the peace agreement between the government of bamako and the tuareg rebels in mali could effectively revive an area that has been devastated by civil war. this agreement presents a concept of decentralisation of powers that has proven effective. greater autonomy is the key to reducing tensions in the region. the clauses in the prospective agreements, such as the one that transfers 30% of bamako administration revenues to local entities, are much needed elements in the peace agreement and need to be encouraged. the proposal of creating powerful elected regional assemblies led by a directly elected president should be fast implemented, and the request for a greater representation of the northern populations in national institutions has to be fulfilled. i truly believe that this agreement is a crucial step for the stability of mali; a victory for reconstruction and the reconciliation of the area. as stated by the agreement, the reconciliation of mali must: ‘respect its territorial integrity and take account of its ethnic and cultural diversity’. i also believe that this demonstrates the possibilities for success by european diplomacy, and could become a model for the other conflicts in the region. algerian leadership in these negotiations has to be praised as well. i encourage all stakeholders to sign it. the people of mali have been troubled enough. they deserve peace.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy.– madam president, this debate has again demonstrated that security and development must go hand in hand. there is no one result without the other. the eu, together with the international community, is determined to pursue joined-up thinking to translate into reality the peace agreement and monitor its implementation. it is the best text possible that could be adapted in the current context and there is no alternative. we will work towards full confluence and complementarity of our actions, including csdp instruments as part of our comprehensive approach. in fact, the eu has real added value in this process and is trusted by all sides. however, expectations are extremely high and the eu should not disappoint knowing that all remains to be done and depends first of all on the malians themselves in a complex regional environment. i would also like to underline that the eu has already developed a number of projects for the return of the administration in the northern regions through the instrument contributing to stability. construction and planning of infrastructures, for example the road to timbuktu and bourem—kidal for the north-south axis has already begun and it is only a matter of time for resuming work. finally the eu will make available to the government already this year a substantial amount of budget support through a new state building contract. i would like to thank you for this debate and we hope and count on the continued support of the european parliament for our policy in the sahel.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on relations between the eu and the league of arab states and cooperation in countering terrorism.
madam president, i would like to reaffirm to the minister the importance of the cooperation between the eu and the league of arab states in countering terrorism and to stress its utmost importance today when facing a series of highly disruptive terrorist activities all around the globe, which i strongly condemn. i specifically call for the development of dedicated channels of communication and specific procedures for the periodic exchange of good practice in countering terrorism, and for timely appropriate information sharing. furthermore, i strongly encourage an enhanced and comprehensive dialogue with moderate religious leaders, elites in the arab countries, who should be promoted as a key actor in the stabilisation process of their societies. regarding the framework established through the memorandum of understanding, i would like to emphasise the need for closer co—operation in monitoring and cutting financing mechanisms dedicated to terrorist activities, in dismantling armed traffic networks and in adapting transparent guidelines and common standards for the transfer and exploitation of dual-use devices equipment.
madam president, the key to defeating terrorism is a coordinated effort between all parties who are committed to peace and democracy. i am encouraged by the memorandum of understanding between the eu and the league of arab states. i believe we must also work closely with the african union and the gulf cooperation council as well as the un counter-terrorism committee. but cooperation itself is not enough. it is essential that we cooperate effectively and intelligently with all our partners, sharing information about firearms trafficking and terrorist financing and learning from our previous mistakes. we must also see our counter-terrorist strategy as part of a bigger picture, fully integrated into our foreign and development policies, because to defeat terrorism we must also understand its underlying causes such as poverty, hopelessness and a lack of governance, which is essential to resolve these problems. we will defeat terrorism when we unite with our allies to offer a better future to the young men and women who are drawn to extremist groups, by drawing on our own european values and economic strengths.
madam president, i would like to express my satisfaction at the high representative’s new approach to counter-terrorism cooperation between the european union and the arab states. it is clear that, terrorism being a global threat, it has to be faced together globally. this alliance of civilisations is a revolutionary means of establishing a common, strong position on open conflicts and ongoing crises. it could prevent the creation of bad new situations, for example in failed states where there is an increased danger of terrorism spreading. i believe it is important to support the moderate sections of arab societies – those that are willing to be our allies in the fight against terrorism and that have the capacity to do the groundwork for the establishment of peace and security in the arab countries. i truly hope that the dialogue with the muslim communities in europe, as well as in the rest of the world, can become the most powerful weapon for making the world a safer place for all.
president-in-office of the council.– madam president, together the european union and the league of arab states represent a quarter of the states in the international community. i will not hide the fact that multilateral engagement of this magnitude is a challenge. however, i do believe we have no choice. as friends, partners and neighbours, with a series of common threats before us, we need to seek overlapping areas of consensus and to forge stronger links between the european union and the arab world. i welcome your initiative in holding a discussion on the relations between the european union and the league of arab states. in a context of evident regional instability, it is essential to maintain the political visibility of relations between the european union and the league of arab states in exchanges like this one. i would also like to thank members of the european parliament for their constructive approach to the challenges faced in our region and in the arab world. i understand that a committee on foreign affairs report, prepared by rapporteur mr peillon, on security challenges in the middle east and north africa is in the making. this is very much in line with our commitment to closer cooperation with the league. let me also mention that the european union engages with the league of arab states not only on security but also in numerous other fields. since 2012, the european union and the league of arab states have shared a joint work programme on cooperation in many sectors. let me mention just some of them: for example, women’s empowerment, where we engage in a programme jointly with the un; and human rights, involving also the council of europe in streamlining human rights within the activities of the league of arab states. in addition, the european union and the league of arab states are cooperating on election co-observation, focusing on consistent information-sharing regarding the selection of priorities, as well as capacity-building support to the league of arab states election unit and enhanced cooperation among the respective missions deployed to observe elections in the region. we also engage in other fields, such as civil society and culture. so we can hardly say that relations between the european union and the league of arab states are too much security-driven. several of you referred to the need to address root causes and to counter radicalisation. i would like to draw your attention to the very substantial council conclusions adopted only last month, which include a clear reference to the underlying factors of radicalisation and the need to support initiatives in the areas of youth provision, education and vocational training, as well as the importance of facilitating interface and civil society dialogues. several of you also spoke about the memorandum of understanding (mou). let me emphasise that the memorandum of understanding has been shared with the european parliament and those in this house who have requested it. the mou builds on the athens declaration. it is not the bedrock of relations between the european union and the league of arab states but rather a complementary instrument to ensure that the european external action service and the secretariat of the league of arab states contribute to the successful development of eu—league of arab states relations. the mou will be made public, as requested by this house. to conclude, allow me to quote the wise words pronounced by his majesty the king of jordan in this chamber when referring to the challenge posed by terrorism. he said: ‘our victory now depends on our unity […] only by co—operation can our regions shut down the sources of terrorist support and defeat their purposes.’
i have received seven motions for resolutions see minutes. tabled in accordance with rule 123(2) of the rules of procedure. i have received seven motions for resolutions see minutes. tabled in accordance with rule 123(2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 12 march 2015. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the rise of anti-semitism, islamophobia and violent extremism in the eu (2015/2595(rsp)).
member of the commission.– madam president, thank you for this interesting debate. unfortunately, as has been said by many of you, it is at a very late hour on an issue which goes to the very heart of our union. extremism – whether political or religious – requires a robust response from all those who believe in a free, open, tolerant and diverse democracy. the irish statesman, edmund burke once said that ‘the triumph of evil is dependent on good people being silent’. we all – as authorities, as individuals – have a responsibility to ensure that all europeans, whatever their background, whatever their religion, feel at home in europe. as the guardian of the treaties which enshrine our fundamental values and principles – human dignity, tolerance, the rule of law, equality and fundamental rights – the commission will do all it can within its powers and together with member states to combat the scourges of racism and xenophobia. we all know that laws are only as good as the extent to which they are enforced and implemented in practice. this has prompted the commission to prioritise actions aimed at ensuring that member states not only introduce legislation to counter terrorism, racism, xenophobia and hate crimes, but also actively and effectively ensure its enforcement on the ground. parliament will remain a key partner for the commission in taking these actions forward, so we count on your support and i hope there will be another opportunity to discuss this issue at a more appropriate and visible time. (applause)
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162)
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i apologize for the delay. the problem of the sea bass, as put forward in the resolution by our colleague alain cadec, is indeed an early warning about the sustainability of multiannual plans. i understand the appeal of this species to the entire fishing industry, to the artisanal fisheries, to the sport fisheries, and i think we need to ensure a balance between the sustainability of resources, of stocks, and the need for fishing, which brings us so many jobs. however, this prohibition, which will be in force until 30 april 2015, does not, in my view, resolve the issue of the sustainability of the multiannual plans. we must find quick solutions, together with the member states, to break this deadlock in the council, and i must remind the council that in this period, on the basis of disputes concerning article 43 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the court of justice decided to uphold the european parliament and the commission. the fact that this decision has been reached means that parliament's view of the common fisheries policy is correct, covering both the actual fishing possibilities and the need to follow an appropriate legislative procedure. i think that in the case of multiannual plans we are in exactly the situation identified by the court of justice of the european union. as regards technical measures to reduce the stock of bluefin tuna to a sustainable level, in addition to regional multiannual plans, which i consider to be a good solution for the correct management of resources in the medium term, i believe that we must also consider sport fishing.
mr president, i would like to express my conviction that europe must speak with a single voice, at the next un human rights council session in geneva. this is the only way to raise the visibility and influence of the european union as a global actor and to encourage all moderate states in the united nations to stand at our side on highly important matters like, for example, what is going on right now: huge violations and abuses of human rights in europe – in ukraine and in crimea. i would like to state my satisfaction at the call in the resolution on the eu member states to actively oppose any attempt to undermine the concepts of universality, indivisibility and interdependence of human rights, to focus on the need to keep special procedures and to preserve the independence and adequate funding of the office of the high commissioner for human rights, as well as sufficient funding to keep regional offices of the high commissioner for human rights open.
in writing. the recent terrorist attacks in paris and copenhagen have been a stark reminder that in the heart of europe, human rights face serious threats, with islamist terrorists particularly targeting freedom of expression and religion. we must condemn acts of terrorism around our borders, whether we're talking about syria, iraq, nigeria or central africa. we must do everything in our power to promote the right to life and other essential human rights. to do this, we need to address not only the effects but also the causes of these forms of extremism, such as poverty, unemployment and lack of opportunities or the marginalisation of diverse communities. while terrorism poses a serious threat to human rights, it is human rights that remain the most powerful weapons in the fight against terrorism. therefore, the human rights council has a special responsibility to combat extremism wherever it occurs.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, i would like to say first of all that it was our group that initiated this resolution on the situation of christians, especially syrians, but also of other religious minorities in the middle east. of course, we regret that other proposals we made, first of all the proposal to discuss about nadia savchenko and about the crimean tatars, were not accepted. our socialist colleagues have blocked the debate on these issues for the second time. but we are glad that we can still discuss the situation of christians, especially since, at the time of this discussion, there are attacks against christians in tell tamer, in the khabur river valley. it's a more than current topic: as we speak, people are dying under the attack of those who claim the caliphate and revenge for the prophet. i hope we can find some political solutions to protect these christians.
member of the commission.– mr president, i am honoured to address you on behalf of the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, although it is on a very sad subject. during previous plenary debates on this matter we highlighted the fact that daesh poses a complex terrorist threat also for europe. however, we must remember that syrian and iraqi citizens are truly on the front line. daesh’s actions are horrific. the human rights abuses committed by them are increasing both in the number of victims and in atrocity. they include the vicious and barbaric murder of prisoners, abuses of the worst kind against children and women and the persecution of persons belonging to different religions, ethnic communities and vulnerable groups. the kidnapping of more than 200 christian assyrians in the hassakeh region of syria, at the end of february, is just the most recent in daesh’s long list of brutal actions that may amount to more crimes and crimes against humanity according to the un commission of inquiry on syria. all of this is in complete violation of international human rights law and goes directly against freedom of religion or belief, which includes the right for persons of all faiths to live and practise their religion freely, without fear of intolerance or attacks. in terms of numbers, the first victims of daesh are sunni muslims. at the same time it is clear that daesh poses a specific and more deliberate threat to minorities in the region, to christians, but also to yazidis, shabakis and other groups. let us be clear, daesh’s actions jeopardise the survival of the multi—ethnic and multi—religious character of the middle east, and the prospect for inclusive stability in the long—term. the european union and its partners cannot tolerate this. we also denounce the attacks on, and destruction of, world heritage sites, and the illicit trafficking in cultural properties. this is why on numerous occasions we have expressed views and the determination to contain and defeat daesh and to contribute as fully as possible, both at the individual level of member states and the collective level of the eu, to the efforts of the global coalition. we believe that military action is essential, but not sufficient on its own. it is necessary to address the underlying violence in syria and iraq, which has given terrorist groups a foothold. it is the instability in syria, caused by the assad regime’s brutal war against its own people and the non—inclusive policies in iraq, that has allowed daesh to flourish. the foreign affairs council should adopt shortly a new regional strategy on syria and iraq, as well as on the daesh threat, based on the recent joint communication of the european commission and the high representative on the subject. a eur 1 billion assistance package has been mobilised in support of the regional strategy, but it is important to secure additional financial support at bilateral and multilateral level to ensure that the response to the crisis meets the ever—increasing level of needs. i call on the european parliament to continue to support all the strands of eu action to tackle, in a comprehensive manner, the multiple causes and consequences of the crisis.
in writing.– da’esh caliphate is by far the most barbaric terrorist organization; they are savages, not humans. they are killing people of different religions and positions. they represent a deadly threat to the existence of christians and other religions in the middle east. historical mosques, monuments, shrines, churches, other places of worships, tombs and cemeteries, as well as priceless archaeological and cultural heritage sites, have been destroyed. assyrians are one of the oldest civilisations on earth, but their cultural and historical heritage is disappearing, step by step, in the middle east. i make a call to all states and entities providing military support in the fight against da’esh to organize as soon as possible special military units in order to protect the minorities in the area and, as well, to protect and save the historical and cultural heritage of mankind in the areas occupied by the barbaric, inhuman terrorist organisation da’esh. unfortunately, priceless artefacts are being destroyed forever.
in writing.– from 25 february, the so called islamic state began a deliberate campaign to destroy cultural heritage in the nineveh province, beginning with the destruction of the mosul museum, continuing on to levelling of nimrud, hatra and khorsabad with bulldozers. three thousand years of history and unesco world heritage sites were destroyed within ten days. not only are assyrian christian and yazidi people targeted as populations, but also by means of their built environment and heritage. the destruction of religious and historical sites and patrimony works in tandem with the direct physical violence against these communities, whose historical presence is being systematically wiped out. according to the protocols of the 1954 hague convention and the principles of the geneva convention, the deliberate destruction of cultural patrimony is a war crime. the director general of unesco and ban ki-moon have condemned these acts as war crimes. the european parliament should also do the same.
the recent eviction at gunpoint of thousands of masai in tanzania is a manifest violation of the universal human right to own property and an act that should be immediately stopped. in the case of these pastoralist cultures, land, animals and people are a cohesive whole. this is a case where there could be a strong synergy between the interests of the masai and those of conservation and tourism. unfortunately we see, sometimes in the eu too, that indigenous people, time and again, are denied the principle of free, prior and informed consent when it comes to their future. not only should we strongly condemn such acts, we should also make maximal use of all the tools the eu has at its disposal to prevent such measures before they take place, and especially the eu development financing, which should be fully linked to respect for human rights and cultural and environmental preservation principles.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr tarabella, i would like to ask you about the situation of the maasai population: would it not be more important if the european union helped the tanzanian government to create a more efficient land registry service and to draw up the necessary documents for this population?
mr president, for amendment 4, i wish to put forward the following amendment: ‘calls on the authorities of eu and las member states to respect the prohibition of torture as it is most notably enshrined in the un convention against torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, which most of them have signed and ratified; reiterates that forced confessions under torture are not valid’.
mr president, i also wish to move the following oral amendment: ‘calls on the council to verify whether there have been breaches of the eu code of conduct on arms exports in relation to repression’.
(ppe) the other mr. president, the world of the internet has undergone a massive transformation with the rise of social media, and it is our duty to keep up with the changes on the regulatory side to prevent serious crime. i find it scandalous that more than a year after the transposition deadline, less than half of the member states have fully transposed directive 2011/90/eu on action against the sexual exploitation of children. it would be irresponsible not to do everything possible to ensure that this matter is dealt with in a way that is commensurate with the weight of the member states. we may not be able to see the complexity of the dangers. the aim is clear: to tackle this unfortunately widespread phenomenon by effectively enforcing the existing rules, improving the technical possibilities, but if necessary by further modernising the rules.
in writing. ‒ boris nemtsov was deputy prime minister of the russian federation and a genuine politician of the opposition rpr-parnas movement. his murder in moscow in late february adds to the growing number of unsolved, politically motivated murders and suspicious deaths that have been committed in russia since 1998. the european parliament has repeatedly expressed its concern about the state of democracy in russia and the systematic failure of the authorities to respect the rule of law, democracy and human rights. in addition, the conflict situation with ukraine and the presence of russian military forces on the territory of that state flagrantly violate international law and the universal declaration of human rights. i voted in favour of this resolution and i believe that the european parliament is entitled to ask the russian federation to launch an independent investigation to bring to justice those responsible for the assassination of boris nemtsov. i also believe that the european union must be much more firm in its relations with ukraine so that this state can benefit from real political, economic and financial support from the eu in these difficult times, in a spirit of solidarity and of trying to restore peace.
in writing. ‒ boris nemtsov was one of the leaders of the liberal and democratic opposition in russia (founder of the political movement solidarnost), a leading critic of the war in ukraine, former deputy prime minister of the russian federation, former governor of the nizhny novgorod region, a reformer of post-soviet russian society and economy. he was killed near the kremlin in an area equipped with video cameras and patrolled by police and security forces on 27 february 2015, two days before a demonstration he was organising against the effects of the economic crisis and conflict in ukraine. i convey my sincere condolences to the family and loved ones of boris nemtsov, to the members of the opposition and to the russian people. i support the development by the council of a unified policy towards russia, in which the 28 member states and the eu institutions express their commitment to a strong common message on the role of human rights in the eu-russia relationship, and on the need to end the crackdown on freedom of expression, assembly and association in russia. i also believe that the objectives of the eu strategy should be to bring russia into full compliance with the osce principles and to motivate the country's leaders to break russia out of its political and economic self-isolation.
in writing. ‒ on 27 february 2015, boris nemtsov, former deputy prime minister, the most prominent political figure of the liberal opposition and tireless advocate for a democratic, open and prosperous russian federation, was brutally murdered in moscow. the killing came two days ahead of a public protest against the effects of the economic crisis and the conflict in ukraine he was co-organising. the russian authorities must conduct a full, rapid and transparent investigation into this assassination, bringing those responsible to justice. while acknowledging the recent arrests, several trials and judicial proceedings in the latest period, including the cases of navalny, magnitsky, khodorkovsky and politikovskaya, have cast doubt on the independence and impartiality of judicial bodies. the targeted and systematic attacks against political opposition figures, independent human rights organisations and civil society are a cause of grave concern for the international community at large. russia, a full member of the council of europe and the organization for security and co—operation in europe (osce) and a signatory to the un declaration, must demonstrate with bold actions its willingness and resolution to adhere to the universal values and principles it has subscribed to, namely democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i strongly condemn the killing of boris nemtsov, who was a prominent opposition leader, who committed his life to a more democratic, prosperous and open russia and to stronger partnership between russia and the rest of the world. this killing is one of the many unresolved politically—motivated murders and suspicious deaths perpetrated in russia since 1988. i agree on the need for an independent international investigation into the murder and i support the call on the authorities of the russian federation to stop the shameful propaganda against its neighbours, and the repressive acts and intimidations against political opponents. i therefore voted in favour of this motion for resolution.
in writing. ‒ a dramatic and potentially pivotal moment for russia's destiny and an important, unequivocal european parliament resolution adopted despite unexpected, and slightly surreal, reservations from colleagues in other member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution to show that this parliament in general and the liberals in particular support the right of the russian people to freedom, respect for their rights and of a life free of brutal killings of important popular figures. it is very important that the truth about the murder of boris nemtsov comes to the surface and that the killers, and those behind them, are brought to justice!
in writing. ‒ the annual report takes stock of the most important developments in the realm of the cfsp over the last year, in terms of the institutional set-up of the cfsp, horizontal issues, such as human rights, non-proliferation and the spread of eu values and geographical issues concerning the main areas of the cfsp: enlargement, transatlantic relations, relations with russia, the eu neighbourhood, the middle east and asia. the report is a consensual one, with broad agreement between the four political groups: epp, s&d, alde and greens. the report takes a hard line on russia’s actions vis-a-vis ukraine and a balanced approach to the middle east peace process, with an emphasis on the two-state solution. the need to focus on the fight against isis and address the mounting challenges stemming from state failure in syria, iraq, libya and the sahel are also stressed. i consequently supported the adoption of the report in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report for the following reasons: the security situation around the european union is getting worse, both in the east, in terms of ukraine and russia, and in the south, where terrorism is developing alarmingly. this is a serious challenge for the union's external policy. we must respond effectively and strategically, without losing sight of the defence of europe's core values. everything we do must strengthen democracy and the rule of law, as well as human rights for all. i believe that the european union has a vital role to play in supporting peace and stability in the middle east. religious extremism and terrorism are not only costing thousands of lives in syria, iraq and elsewhere, but they are also increasing the threat to our own national security.
in writing. ‒ ideile forta ale raportului sunt: (1) nevoia de unitate , mai ales in fata unor crize precum cea ucraineana; (2) sprijin pentru ucraina, moldova, georgia. mogherini a facut un raport, prin natura lucrurilor, pe un an de tranzitie politica de la fosta comisie si fostul inalt reprezentant. pare sa se fi instapanit foarte bine pe portofoliu, s-ar putea sa avem o surpriza placuta cu ea.
in writing. ‒ i believe the european union is indeed moving forward, as this report mentions, in the creation of a true, united and cohesive foreign policy, but it important to understand that in the critical times we are living in, it is not enough. the security concerns threatening our east, the rise of radical fundamentalism almost to a self-proclaimed ‘state’ level and the advent of a new and dangerous world dynamic make it more important than ever that the eu is able to talk with one unified voice and to defend itself and its interests abroad with a stronger policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the 2013 annual report on human rights and democracy in the world and the european union's policy on the matter. beyond many points that correctly capture the positive developments, there were also many aspects in this report with which i cannot agree and which go beyond the limits of values and moral perceptions, consolidated in romania and by the provisions of the civil code, which defines marriage as the union between a man and a woman. the report is a very long one, which has required a lot of hard work, but unfortunately i could not give my vote for it, firstly for the reason stated above and secondly because there are some aspects which, in my view, violate the principle of subsidiarity, that is, the right of the member states to decide in certain areas. but i believe that the human person and human dignity must be the central elements around which all the european union's actions are based, so that the protection of human rights is the main point on any eu country's roadmap and not only.
in writing. ‒ considering that all forms of discrimination and violence against women, including sexual abuse, female genital mutilation, forced marriage, so-called honour killings and the commercial sexual exploitation of women, as well as domestic violence, should never be justified on any political, social, religious or cultural grounds or by popular or tribal traditions, considers it necessary that the council of europe's member states sign and ratify the convention on preventing and combating violence against women and, in this context, that the eu take the necessary steps to accede to the convention in order to ensure coherence between the eu's internal and external action on violence against women.
in writing. ‒ i thank the rapporteur mr. panzeri for the tremendous job he did with this report on the crucial issue of human rights. i especially appreciate the introduction of a push for the rights of women, of children, about the rights of religion, social, ethnical minorities, of minorities in general. these persons are a part of society that is highly discriminated against in most countries of the world and needs greater government protection and support. the european union must clearly lead the way with a swift approach to the subject: societies must change from within and governments can play important roles in education about and respect for freedom. there should be conformity of rights inside our borders so that the people are not forced to change state in order to see their rights respected. i consider this report to be highly strategic especially when it affirms that the european union, when dealing with other nations, must exert greater pressure on respect for human rights. i also firmly support the idea that the humanitarian aid that we deliver must have a stronger interconnection with the efforts of governments that receive this aid regarding their human rights policies.
in writing. ‒ unfortunately, the optimism of the 1990s about the world swiftly embracing liberal democracy is firmly behind us. the eu has remained a force for good, but it needs both an extra dose of realism as to what is possible and where, and to be less consumed by its own problems and crises in its neighbourhoods, if it is to make more of a difference.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report as it compiles very important work done at an international level to identify, catalogue and propose options for all cases of human rights violations found. the situation in 2013 was in many ways an improvement from previous years, often due to the hard work done by the un and the eu together. at the same time, i am afraid that the events following the arab spring, the war in syria and iraq, and now in ukraine, might lead to a worsened reality from this perspective. that is why i hope all partners of the european parliament will take note of this report and take steps, where possible, to better protect the rights and freedoms of people all over the world.
in writing. ‒ i believe that human rights are a fundamental chapter that deserves respect from legislators. for this reason, we must keep this chapter within the bounds of clarity and avoid inflation that can please special subgroups. i believe that the report that was put to the vote has been dangerously leaning towards legislation to benefit particular agendas. since i am of the opinion that the fundamental principles and institutions of public law risk being compromised in this way, i have abstained.
in writing. ‒ strong security in the european union is needed in a context where it has changed radically in recent years due to new conflicts and uprisings in the union's neighbourhood. not only must we take account of the rapid development of new technologies, but also of the worrying increase in radicalisation that leads to violence and terrorism worldwide. this threat can only be countered through the efforts of national governments and regional and international organisations. furthermore, this motion for a resolution states that cooperation in humanitarian assistance is vital, but also identifies practical measures that should be considered to counter the radicalisation, recruitment and movement of terrorists and foreign fighters, as well as the treatment of fighters returning to their place of origin. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that counter-terrorism measures can be more effectively implemented and integrated through close cooperation with third countries, in particular with countries in the arab world and africa, and which must focus on the deep socioeconomic and cultural causes of this phenomenon.
in writing. ‒ on 19 january 2015, the vp/hr, federica mogherini, and the secretary general of the league of arab states (las), dr nabil el araby, signed a memorandum of understanding (mou) between the european external action service (eeas) and the general secretariat of the las, the content of which is not public. the aim of the mou is to support and strengthen relations between eu member states and the member states of the lag with a view to improving their functional structures, exchanges of experience and dialogue, in order to achieve common goals and objectives in areas of mutual interest. i support the request to make the contents of the edp public in order to subject it to democratic and judicial control. they also support cooperation to identify practical measures that should be taken to counter terrorist threats, including more effectively combating radicalisation, recruitment and movement of terrorists and foreign fighters, and addressing returnees, while stressing the need to maintain a balance between freedom and security in response to terrorist threats, and to examine all measures to be taken in terms of their compatibility with the rule of law and fundamental rights requirements.
in writing. ‒ terrorism is a global threat that must be tackled in a coordinated way by national governments, regional and international organisations. a global alliance can address this threat effectively, with respect for international law, fundamental values and international human rights standards. the international community has committed itself to taking measures to ensure respect for human rights and the rule of law as a fundamental basis for the fight against terrorism by adopting the united nations global counter-terrorism strategy by the general assembly. in this regard, cooperation between the eu and the league of arab states in the field of counter-terrorism is necessary, underlining the need to continue to promote and protect human rights, religious freedom and coexistence between different religions. at the same time, exclusion, extremism and incitement to hatred and violence must be rejected.
in writing. ‒ i believe that cooperation with key partners and countries on countering terrorist financing needs to be stepped up, and i strongly believe that the eu should engage in a dialogue with partner countries on countering terrorist financing and cooperate closely with its partners in this area.
in writing. ‒ i would like to express my satisfaction on the high representative's new approach to counter-terrorism cooperation between the european union and the arab states. it is clear that, terrorism being a global threat; we need to face it together. this "alliance of civilisation" is a revolutionary means for establishing a common and strong position on open conflicts and on-going crises. it would prevent the creation of new bad situations, such as failed states, where there is an increased danger of spreading terrorism. i believe it is important to support the moderate part of arab societies, those that are willing to be our allies in the fight against terrorism and that have the capacity to set the grounds for establishment of peace and security in the arab countries. i truly hope that the dialogue with the muslim communities in europe as well as in the rest of the world could become the most powerful weapon to make the world a safer place for all.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution for the following reasons: the memorandum of understanding between the european union and the league of arab states is the basis for cooperation in the fight against terrorism. i am sure that in the fight against terrorism, the coordinated effort of all parties involved in the process of promoting peace and democracy is very important. i am confident in the results of cooperation with the league of arab states and i also believe that we must also work with the african union and the gulf cooperation council, as well as the un committee on counter-terrorism. it is essential to cooperate effectively and intelligently with all partners, including by sharing information on firearms trafficking and terrorist financing, but also by learning from past mistakes. moreover, the counter-terrorism strategy should be seen as part of a larger picture, fully integrated into our foreign and development policies. to fight terrorism, we need to understand its causes, such as poverty, hopelessness and poor governance. we will defeat terrorism when we join with our allies to offer a better future to young people who may be drawn to extremist groups.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the sustainable exploitation of the sea bass because, despite the measures taken previously by the commission, recent studies show that the status of the sea bass stocks is worrying and their mortality remains very high, given that the sea bass is a very slow-growing species that takes a long time to reproduce. due to its significant economic value, the sea bass is a noble species and highly sought after by the fishing industry, but it should be borne in mind that the exploitation of this species during breeding seasons needs to be limited. it is proposed to develop a multiannual management plan for the red seabream to bring stocks back above maximum sustainable yield, and to introduce eu-wide measures on recreational fishing by setting quantitative limits at a later stage.
mr president, the 28th session of the united nations human rights council focused special attention on myanmar, which is something that i would like to emphasise during this debate. yanghee lee, the un special rapporteur on human rights in myanmar, recently stated that that she fears the country is sliding back towards conflict. the fate of the displaced rohingya in especially worrying. the government’s response to religious clashes is poor and it refuses to grant non—national races citizenship. christian and muslim populations such as the rohingya face religious persecution, and it is difficult for non—buddhists to obtain government jobs. a couple of days ago there was a harsh crackdown by the army on student protects. the dedicated session of the unhrc on myanmar was therefore more than welcome. i urge the european parliament, and particularly the asean delegation to organise a similar session.
in writing. ‒ article 21 of the lisbon treaty, which underpins the eu's action in its relations with third countries, reaffirms the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms and provides for respect for human dignity, the principles of equality and solidarity, and respect for the principles of the united nations charter and international law. respect for, and promotion and guarantee of, the universality of human rights are also an integral part of the european union's ethical and legal acquis and one of the cornerstones of european unity and integrity. support the eu's promotion of the universality and indivisibility of human rights, including civil and political, economic, social and cultural rights, in accordance with article 21 of the treaty of lisbon and the general provisions on the union's external action, as well as the eu's priorities for the un human rights council on: civil and political rights, social and economic rights, business and human rights, women's and children's rights, climate change and human rights, international cultural and sporting events and human rights, the fight against impunity and the international criminal court (icc), as well as the eu's priorities on country-specific issues (ukraine, iran, democratic people's republic of korea, myanmar/burma, bahrain, belarus, south sudan, mali, egypt, palestine, sri lanka, iraq/israel, syria).
in writing. ‒ the crisis in ukraine, the worrying situation in the middle east and africa, and the terrorist attacks in europe, all show how important it is for the eu to be united and to show determination in respecting and defending human rights. in the fight against terrorism, we understand its root causes, including social exclusion, political marginalization and inequalities. we have a duty to make every effort to protect the rights of persons belonging to religious minorities. it is important that all states support civil society and human rights defenders and allow them to operate in a normal climate, free from fear, repression or intimidation. the european commission and the eeas have a duty to encourage eu delegations around the world to promote and respect human rights, including by european companies, and to ensure that 'business and human rights' are among the most important themes in the european instrument for democracy and human rights manifestation.
in writing. ‒ i believe that europe, at the next unhrc session in geneva, must speak with a single voice: this is the only way to raise the visibility and influence of the eu as a global actor and to encourage all moderate states in the un to stand at our side on highly important matters, like, for example, what is going on in ukraine – violations and abuses of human rights. with my favourable vote i supported the resolution’s call on eu member states to actively oppose any attempt to undermine the concepts of universality, indivisibility and interdependence of human rights, to focus on the need to keep special procedures, and to preserve the independence and adequate funding of the office of the high commissioner for human rights as well as sufficient funding to keep regional unhrc offices open.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the unified text of this resolution because i believe that parliament needs to be a more active partner and supporter of the united nations human rights council (unhrc). the text comprehensively covers the most important human-rights issues, but we could add even more subjects, such as freedom of expression and assembly, which require more protection throughout the world. the eu needs to coordinate better with the unhrc, and the member states of the union also need to align their policies better with both the european external action service and the un, as there can be duplication of effort in some places while in others not enough is done.
in writing. ‒ in venezuela, the democratic overreach of the bolivarian regime has crossed the line from authoritarianism to dictatorial measures. numerous arrests of prominent opposition leaders make it clear that president maduro is on the verge of tearing down the last vestiges of democracy. there are serious fears that the midterm elections in september will prove the same: that the electoral machine created by the late chavez, based on bribes, pressure and threats, will confirm the same state of affairs. recent opinion polls show that if elections were held during this period, the ruling party would lose more than 20 percent. therefore, it is expected that the government in caracas will postpone the elections, which would increase the protests and mobilize the opposition. i support the motion for a resolution on the situation in venezuela in the belief that if this aggression continues and any form of dialogue is refused, the result will be economic regression, social instability and international isolation.
in writing. ‒ a vote to sanction abuses to which we romanians are or should be very sensitive: political arrests of opposition leaders remind us of our own 50s and communist terror. sad that the parliamentarians of the far left have had the historical nerve to come up with reasons like: the attorney general of venezuela had issued an arrest warrant for the arrest of caracas mayor antonio ledezma. and ceausescu could issue an arrest warrant for anyone, so things were done, beautifully, right, in full legality.
mr president, the energy union must have at its core an efficient and functioning internal energy market, which ensures economic growth and jobs, affordable and competitive prices for individual and industrial consumers, and the protection of vulnerable consumers. i believe that important steps have been taken by the council to integrate energy efficiency across the five dimensions, but what is really missing in the council's approach is the issue of energy poverty. the commission wants to eliminate regulated prices, but this measure, in the absence of immediate and concrete action to support those affected by energy poverty, that is 50 million people, could lead to a disastrous situation. since we are talking about the creation of a common energy market, i would like to ask whether the creation of an energy dispatch office, which is indispensable, in my view, for the effective functioning of a single energy market in the european union, is also envisaged. and last but not least, i welcome the fact that all proposals for the creation of the energy union have as their main objective the reduction of energy prices and we will support all these measures.
mr president, i sense a strong commitment for the energy union reflected by the council conclusions. prioritising the implementation of the third package, accelerating build-up of the pcis; these are good signs of decisive action to counter the current risk of supply to the european union. what lags behind, in my opinion, is changing the way our consumers access and perceive energy. security and solidarity, once reached, must be followed immediately by functioning markets, otherwise we will keep our citizens tied to the paradigm of energy as a fixed price public service instead of a commodity. that is why i support accelerating the development of flexible regional markets for gas which replace bilateral agreements and long-term oil-indexed contracts. regional cooperation must be streamlined towards aggregating liquidity and building trading hubs. structured dialogue between national governments, regulatory authorities and tsos should be facilitated continuously by the commission and acer, and deadlines should be set. once we have succeeded in interconnecting pipelines and grids, we must succeed in interconnecting demand and supply for citizens and companies alike. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– as i said, i salute the fact that we are going to accelerate implementation of the third package. i think the vision is right – an interconnected continent with multiple entry points – and if we add to this the market hubs then i think this is a good solution for everyone.
in writing. the european council of 19-20 march 2015 addressed a number of issues, including the issue of a common energy policy. this subject, so important for the future of europe, must become a priority on the european union's agenda and a mechanism to stimulate cooperation and solidarity between member states. such a common energy policy should include the following elements:- a negotiated common import tariff for gas, oil and other energy sources imported by member states outside the european area. this will lead to a reduction in the unequal treatment of eastern european countries, which pay up to 7 times the price of imported energy resources. - combating inequalities by protecting economically disadvantaged consumers. subsidising access to energy for people with low incomes and implementing a common and negotiated timetable for the evolution of applied tariffs must therefore become a european priority, in order to avoid creating new means of excluding groups or regions from the benefits of a common market that is - hopefully - fairer and greener. i therefore support the initiatives taken by the european commission and the european council and hope that these energy market balancing measures will be implemented as soon as possible.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for giving me the opportunity to have an exchange with you on taxation in europe. the annual report on taxation, which we are discussing today, makes a diagnosis which i entirely agree with. the picture of corporate and personal taxation in europe is both illicit and inefficient. the lack of coordination of tax rules and practices in the member states poses fundamental problems for the union as a whole. first, tax rules too often segment the internal market in such a way that most european or foreign companies do not have full access to it and encounter obstacles that limit their growth opportunities. secondly, the tax authorities are no longer able or less able to collect the tax due to them properly. some taxpayers use aggressive tax planning to take advantage of the differences and inconsistencies between tax systems. moreover, it is clear that the member states themselves are engaged in excessive competition to attract the most mobile tax bases. thirdly, in the face of the revelation of this iniquitous system, which benefits the most powerful at the expense of all the others - and which is no longer tolerated because it is no longer tolerated - the consent to taxation is fading. the very heart of the social contract between the citizen and the public authorities is at stake. we are therefore faced with a critical situation which requires rapid and far-reaching action. my goals are the same as yours. first, we must restore tax justice within the union and the member states. finally, we must create a genuine internal tax market, a transparent and predictable framework for business to invest and for consumer confidence to be restored. and finally, we need to put taxation at the service of the political priorities of the union, whether it is the digital single market - the commission was talking about this morning - or the energy union. there are solutions, and some of them have been known for years. the implementation of these will require the commitment of all, and first of all of most of the member states, which have the final say on these issues and will have to agree on the ambitious solutions we will propose to them. the president of the commission, jean-claude juncker, has made the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion a top political priority of this commission, and i would like to dwell on this for a moment. as you know, the european commission has just taken a series of strong measures to improve tax transparency in the union, starting with a proposal for a directive on the exchange of information on tax rulings. this is to make available to all member states information on the impact of their partners' decisions on their own tax base, which goes hand in hand with a commitment to promote transparency beyond tax filings, so that the european union remains a forerunner in overall tax transparency. one possibility could be - as you recommend in the annual report on taxation - to extend to all sectors the current requirement for certain industries in the european union to disclose certain financial information on a country-by-country basis. this is a debate which the commission is prepared to have with parliament. the commission has not yet decided on the best way forward, which will require further analysis, but it intends to work hard to complete this analysis, which remains a necessary prerequisite for future common positions. the question of where profits are to be taxed is also particularly relevant in the european union, due to its unique characteristics such as the existence of a single currency area and an internal market with 28 different tax systems. we have our own rules, our own priorities, our own goals. the union can rely on the useful work of the oecd, but it cannot rely on its work alone. the commission's work programme for 2015 provides that, in the light of global developments, it will present an action plan for corporate taxation in the single market, where profits should be taxed more systematically where value is created, in order to bring production closer to taxation. the action plan will help to relaunch discussions on the accis (or ccctb) project, which should harmonise the tax base for many companies operating across borders in the european union. this would not only make the internal market more competitive but also limit the possibilities for tax manipulation by companies, which is a priority for us. this should also include actions in the shorter term to enable the implementation in the union of solutions agreed at global level, in particular at g20 level. it is expected that the commission will adopt this action plan - the second phase of our approach - before the summer, i think at the beginning of june. i am sure that your assembly, through the work carried out in the taxe and econ committees, will make a positive contribution to the preparation of this action plan. i would like to say a few words on two subjects. first, the financial transaction tax. the implementation of an ambitious framework for a national financial transaction tax is a priority that the commission shares with this parliament, as stated by president juncker in his political guidelines. the commission is encouraging tax reforms that bring in those who have benefited from costly bailout policies and that allow the tax base to be widened and the tax burden on labour to be lightened. i welcome the fact that at the last ecofin council in january, the member states participating in enhanced cooperation reiterated their willingness to create the conditions for the implementation of a european framework of harmonised national ftts as from 1 january 2016. i also note that the enhanced cooperation member states have stated that national ftts should be based on the broadest possible tax base with low rates, while taking into account their impact on the real economy and the risks of offshoring. the commission services have always offered and will continue to offer technical support to the member states in order to reach an agreement quickly, in a spirit of openness to compromise, while upholding the fundamental principles of the commission's proposal. finally, as regards indirect taxes, i would like to stress that the commission intends to present, during this term of office, a series of reforms of the vat system to improve its functioning, reduce the administrative burden and, in particular, adopt a definitive vat system. the commission prefers and will prefer a global approach because the introduction of scattered ad hoc measures would risk, particularly in the light of the negotiations in the council, leading to inconsistent solutions or even to no solution at all. this also applies to the discussion of vat rates. i would like to thank mrs kaili for her excellent report and to remind parliament that i am at parliament's disposal so that we can move forward together on this vital subject. i shall also be having an exchange with the special committee on taxation on 30 march in the spirit that should prevail, namely the spirit of transparency and cooperation between us.
on behalf of the epp group. madam president, first of all, i would like to welcome the new initiative of the european commission on the fiscal transparency package. i am convinced that the introduction of automatic exchange of information between member states on tax rulings meets the citizens' demand, and they want something simple and fair: that profits be taxed in the country where they were made and not transferred to another country by individual tax rulings or accounting tricks. we also look forward to the new action plan that the european commission has promised against tax evasion and tax avoidance. secondly, i would like to thank mrs kaili, the rapporteur, and the other colleagues with whom i have worked very well in finalising this report. i would like to stress one important sentence in this report: only through close cooperation between member states, between member states and third countries will we be able to make substantial progress in the fight against tax evasion and profit shifting.
in writing.– i welcome the fact that we have presented concrete proposals to fight tax evasion and avoidance after the unacceptable revelations of the lux leaks and swiss leaks scandals. it is clear that we must take stronger action to tackle corporate tax avoidance and aggressive tax planning. i support the inclusion of a list of practical demands in the report to make implementation of our proposals more effective. the report includes measures to reduce mismatches between tax systems and rules to extend country-by-country reporting to monitor where business profits are located and where taxes are paid. it also includes common eu criteria to define tax havens. i believe this call for more transparency and regulation represents an important step ahead in the fight against tax evasion and tax avoidance and a pragmatic tool to foster growth and strengthen the emu. i would like to congratulate my colleague eva kaili for her holistic approach to the subject of taxation policy.
in writing. the annual loss in the eu due to tax fraud and tax evasion is estimated at €1 000 billion. the fight against tax fraud must be a priority. the european parliament must be very firm in tackling these non-transparent practices that distort competition in the market. we need to have a tax policy that promotes inclusion, transparency and fairness and at the same time encourages good governance and is an effective tool for promoting social justice and reducing economic inequalities. we need policies that tackle tax evasion, reduce unfair tax disparities, encourage competitiveness and support smes. we also need measures to tackle tax havens.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, ukraine is at war today, a war of survival in the face of aggression from russia which is waging a hybrid war, undeclared but systematically imposed and waged after the illegal occupation of crimea. and that should not be forgotten and denied by anyone in this room. ukraine is a strategic partner for the european union and the euro-atlantic world. european solidarity and support for ukraine must be more substantial, consistent and effective than ever before. i am therefore convinced that this funding of 1.8 billion, approved under the urgency procedure by the inta committee - and i am convinced that it will also be approved by parliament today - responds to the urgency and maintains the coherence of our commitments. ukraine is facing a severe recession and the crisis will be prolonged because it is the result of serious macroeconomic and structural problems, aggravated by a long-running and foreseeable conflict with a long duration in the future. and a message to the ukrainian government and the ukrainian people: for these dramatic, painful reforms to work in wartime, they need the support of the ukrainian people. we call on the ukrainian government not to forget for a moment that it must lead these reforms with the ukrainian people.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, madam high representative, immediately after the appalling attack on the bardo museum, the group of the european people's party (christian democrats) condemned this act and, as i myself did a week ago on social media, i would like to express my condolences to the families and friends of the victims and express our full solidarity with the tunisian people in this ordeal. the attack on the bardo museum targeted the country in the region that actually made efforts to turn the promises of the arab spring into reality. beyond the innocent victims, the attack was therefore aimed at striking at tunisia's democratic transition itself, a transition that is a unique political and institutional scenario in the arab world. but make no mistake, the attack on tunis is not only an attack on our partner but also an attack on europe. firstly, it is obvious, because the majority of the victims are european citizens. secondly, because the security of the mediterranean is also our security. and finally, because the attack on the bardo museum is an attack on our values of tolerance and fundamental freedoms. daesh claimed responsibility for the attack, confronting us once again with the barbarity of an ideology built on a political interpretation of islam and on the rejection of the other. the same barbarity and intolerance that struck yemen last friday. the same barbarism and intolerance that struck the christians of pakistan, victims of the suicide bombings on march 15. in the face of all this, we must now more than ever stand firm in defence of our values, and fight together against terrorism and fanaticism, with our partners and, above all, with tunisia. we have supported the democratic transition of this country from the beginning and we must not abandon it in these critical hours. we need real international support and i am pleased to hear the high representative on all aspects of this cooperation which absolutely needs to be strengthened. i should like to add that in a few days' time a delegation of our colleagues from the delegation for relations with the maghreb countries and the arab maghreb union will be going to tunisia to have an exchange with our parliamentary colleagues.
in writing. tunisia is the country where the arab spring started. it is the only country in the region where democratic values are visible: moderate islamic political forces and many non-religious parties make efforts to sit at the table of dialogue, and the rights of citizens, including women's rights, are well regulated and respected, compared to other arab states. the terrorist attack on the national museum in tunis is an attack on western values. the european union needs to cooperate more closely with its partners to tackle terrorist threats. it is also important to mobilise all the necessary instruments to fully support tunisia in the fight against terrorism and in security sector reform. i strongly condemn this terrorist attack; the commission notes that the tunisian authorities have not yet taken any action to address the situation in tunisia. tunisia needs security assistance in addition to economic and social support. we also have a duty to stand with it in its commitment to promoting peace and democracy. such acts of violence should not discourage us, but rather unite us to face such threats.
mr president, the minimum wage is an economic measure that each member state is free to apply. it is a measure that applies to nationals of that state or to nationals working in that state under an individual employment contract. it cannot in any case apply to workers employed by a company outside the member state in the service sector, for example, in particular road transport. the obligation for companies to pay drivers for international transport at least the minimum wage applied in germany for the period of driving on german territory is clearly in breach of the rules of the single market, the services directive. the obligation for companies to keep separate accounts and to make them available to the german authorities is a requirement that is completely outside any national or european legislation. such a measure sets a dangerous precedent, as other member states have already announced their intention to apply similar measures which will create major problems in the eu single market. i add the new rules, outside the european regulations, imposed by other member states on drivers, as well as the aberrant fines provided for by the legislation of these states, including germany. i think it is obvious that these measures can be considered as protectionist measures. i ask the commission to continue the infringement procedure and to reach a result as soon as possible in order to limit the losses suffered by carriers in a significant number of member states, including romania.
in writing.– the recent imposition by germany of a minimum wage for freight transporters from other member states is just another in a recent row of economic protectionist measures in europe disguised as social ones. what is worrying is that, even in this house, we are hearing more and more calls against so-called social dumping from the east. we should be careful not to misuse economic terms: dumping means exporting a product to another country at a price either below the price charged on its home market or below its cost of production. this is clearly not the case at hand. the reality is that, despite eu efforts, there still are strong disparities between member states in terms of economic development, wages and production costs, just as there are differences in terms of financial backgrounds, technological development, access to finance and so on. forcing companies in other member states to artificially increase their costs, and placing on them burdensome administrative requirements, is not the way to make the eu a competitive player on the global market. if it really intends to be one, it should not be afraid of competition.
in writing. i support the minimum wage as a social and economic principle throughout the european union. this discussion is not about the minimum wage, however, but about the application of the principle of subsidiarity in european law and the principle of competitiveness in the eu economy. if we respect these fundamental principles for the unitary development of the european union, i believe we can pay more attention to the scope of the minimum wage in western countries and how the imposition of these rules affects eastern economies. the transport sector in central and eastern europe is populated by smes that provide jobs, smes that help develop a growing economy. if these smes are prevented from functioning by imposing rules they cannot comply with, then who is responsible for the loss of a considerable number of jobs? i believe in the principle of regulating the minimum wage in all economic sectors, but i do not believe that these measures should negatively affect the free movement of goods in the eu and in no way negatively affect the maintenance of the competitiveness of companies in countries such as romania. i want to create an economic environment and a market harmonized under the european principles and legislation that we have all committed ourselves to uphold.
madam president, i am a roma myself. europe’s largest ethnic minority inside the eu comprises the youngest and fastest—growing demographic segment of the population. for example, by 2020, young roma will make up one third of the new entrants to the workforce in hungary and in bulgaria. europe cannot afford another lost generation. this is a matter of human rights and basic values and it is vital to peace and cohesion in society across europe. europe cannot afford to ignore the fast growing anti-gypsy policy within its boundaries. europe, while adjusting and reinventing its own instruments for a participatory democracy, can no longer be silent in the light of the human rights violations that most european citizens of roma origin are facing in their daily existence. racism against roma is racism too and cannot – and should not – be tolerated any longer. racism and intolerance became rooted in european societies as the economic crisis deepened societal cleavages and created the premise for strengthening extremism against poor, deprived, socially—excluded european citizens, often ethnic roma. as we can see even here with our colleague, mr buonanno, racism is no longer limited to the fringes of society. it is present even here in the european parliament. what upsets me, as a roma, is that i am well enough educated not to discriminate myself. i feel sorry for him. legal means alone do not seem sufficient to counter trends and to counter discrimination. more needs to be done. anti-gypsyism, as commissioner jourová said – and i congratulate her – is one of the most acute problems facing europe today. it has for far too long been a widely—accepted policy at state stakeholders’ level, and this has to stop. therefore, in the interests of fully participatory democracy, i, as a roma, pledge myself in favour of acknowledging and assuming, through our internal european parliament political mechanism, the existence of anti-gypsy rhetoric.
i think that tolerance and acceptance of otherness is very often lacking in europe. one of the most discriminated groups is the roma. there is no doubt that strong anti-gypsyism is still being felt in the member states, not only in the eastern half of europe but also in western societies. think of the government's actions against the roma, the deportations. it is therefore very important to see that the roma issue is not just a matter for individual member states, but a european issue. only by working together can we achieve results in this area. i come from a member state, romania, where there is a significant roma population, and i believe that this issue should be seen primarily as a social problem. if we help these communities to integrate the rising generations into the labour market by reducing early school leaving rates, anti-gypsyism will also decline significantly. of course, this does not happen from one year to the next, but can only be the result of conscious and long-term action.
in writing. in recent years, the issue of the roma minority has become a priority topic both in public debates and on the european political agenda. roma are one of the largest ethnic minorities in the european union, with statistics indicating that there are some 12 million roma living in different member states, often in difficult living conditions. although important legislative and institutional progress has been made in this time, the reality shows that there is still work to be done in the process of social inclusion of roma communities. discrimination, poverty, social exclusion, lack of education and access to basic healthcare are just some of the problems facing the roma community and we must continue to fight to solve them. the european union has developed a legislative framework aimed at increasing the social integration of marginalised groups and combating racism and racial discrimination, within the framework of overall strategic visions such as the europe 2020 strategy, the european platform for roma inclusion, the european framework for national roma integration strategies 2020. i believe that promoting policies for the social inclusion of minorities, through initiatives and actions to combat poverty, must be high on the european agenda.
madam president, the recent statements by the russian ambassador in copenhagen that all countries participating in the nato missile defence system will be targeted by russia are extremely serious statements which should not go unnoticed by the european commission but, on the contrary, should be a major concern for this institution. the european commission cannot expect the us to always take the first step and react to the aggression of representatives of the russian administration, especially since these statements directly target eu and nato member countries such as romania and poland. the security of citizens, peace and stability throughout europe are systematically endangered by both statements and concrete actions coming from russia. that is why i believe that a joint effort of the european union and the us is needed in the face of the attitude shown by russia, so that it understands that peace and security in the region are inviolable, and the response otherwise will be tailored.
madam president, a serious political crisis is unfolding in bucharest. it looks like the one from the summer of 2012. the senate has decided to violate the constitution. "we don't care about her!" said one of the upper house members. it was a vote to lift the immunity of a former minister, dan šova. he's being charged by the anti-corruption prosecutors with complicity in abuse of office. more than half of the senators present voted to lift the immunity, but the senate president and the prime minister, a close friend of shova, decided to consider the vote as a negative one. the constitution and several decisions of the constitutional court are thus violated. it's disregarded elementary common sense. people took to the streets in bucharest and shouted: "parliament is criminal!" i demand the resignation of prime minister ponta! the only solution is to hold early elections.
in writing. ‒ the attica region is an area that until the beginning of the crisis provided many jobs, but because of the crisis, the number of unemployed has increased significantly, with attica today being among the first regions with the highest number of unemployed in greece. the amount of eur 5 046 000 for the 928 workers can be useful for the labour force recovery of the area. this situation was reached because, in the economic crisis, banks were no longer able to provide credit due to the lack of liquidity. a vicious circle has thus been created, which hinders and makes it difficult for the workers and the system to function properly. i support this report because any support that comes to the aid of those who have the power, the strength and the will to work is welcome both for the affected area and for the union as a whole.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund: application egf/2014/018, gr/attica broadcasting as special rapporteur of the s&d group for the egf. the application is well documented and complies with the relevant requirements of the european commission.
in writing. ‒ the attica region of greece is a productive area in terms of media activities, but the crisis, like in other areas, has managed to take hold. as in the case of attica broadcasting, redundancies have therefore taken place. the economic problems in this sector were caused by the fall in revenues, which led to a decrease in the number of people who wanted to buy newspapers and magazines, which were the materials produced by the companies affected by the economic problems in the attica region. thus, the lack of demand led to the dismissal of 705 people. i voted in favour of this report because the granting of eur 3 746 700 would provide substantial support for workers in the attila region, a region compromised by the crisis. people could be more easily reintegrated into the labour market through training courses and thus the area could be economically revitalised through those working there.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund: application egf/2014/015 gr/attica publishing activities as special rapporteur of the s&d group for the egf. the application is well documented and complies with the relevant requirements of the european commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the request for waiver of the immunity of antónio marinho e pinto.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of approving the report on the request for waiver of the immunity of ivan jakovčić in accordance with the decision adopted in the committee on legal affairs of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ while globalisation is seen as a positive factor that has led to the integration and interdependence of markets, it has also had negative effects on the economy. one example is the lufthansa technik aircraft maintenance, repair and overhaul plant in ireland, which had to make redundancies due to changes in eu trade in goods and services. this has led to a change in aircraft component production practices, which has led to the relocation of production worldwide, making it more cost-effective for western european and us carriers to send aircraft to india or china for cheap labour. this was also done by lufthansa, by entering into alliances with operators in china or the philippines. the only beneficiary was the transporter, but the workers made redundant suffered. the redundancies have had a negative impact on the east and south of ireland. 424 people and another 200 young people who are not professionally integrated and not in education or training programmes can benefit from egf assistance of eur 2 490 750. i support the proposal because it is necessary to reintegrate workers who cannot find a job, given that most of them have skills only in this area.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, application egf/2014/016 ie/lufthansa technik, as rapporteur for this application and as special rapporteur of the s&d group for the egf. the application is well documented and complies with the relevant requirements of the european commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of approving the report on the request for waiver of the immunity of viktor uspaskich in accordance with the decision adopted in the committee on legal affairs of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the request for the defence of the privileges and immunities of gabriele albertini, as decided by the committee on legal affairs of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ the economy of ukraine is experiencing an unprecedented crisis. the reform efforts of the new executive to address pressing challenges have been neutralised by the protracted armed conflict in the eastern regions of the country and the illegal annexation of crimea by the russian federation. the overall climate has triggered a negative spiral with economic recession, capital flight, sharp depreciation of the currency, depletion of international reserves and loss of access to international debt markets being only some, and significantly not all, of the devastating consequences. macro-financial assistance represents one of the eu crisis-response mechanisms available to partner countries suffering from exceptional economic circumstances. the additional eur 1.8 billion to be made available to ukraine, as proposed by the commission, will serve a number of strategic objectives by providing direct relief, by harnessing contributions of other partners, by signalling political encouragement and support to the reform efforts undertaken by the authorities and by strengthening reform commitments through conditionality. in this sense, timely assistance for ukraine will create a virtuous circle contributing to the overall stability of the country. the european parliament has consistently expressed its support for assisting ukraine and will continue to do so by adopting this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting macro-financial assistance to ukraine in line with the policy of the s&d group in the european parliament and considering that the process of democratisation and strengthening the rule of law and the economy in ukraine requires substantial support from the member states of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the eu granting ukraine eur 1.8 billion in macro-financial assistance for economic and political stabilisation and reform. the mfa is an exceptional eu crisis-response mechanism that is exactly designed for situations where eu partner countries experience acute financial difficulties. ukraine is fighting a war on its eastern front with russia. at the same time, the council acknowledged the ukrainian government’s reform efforts so far. we are obliged to support our partner in these efforts and ensure we have a well-functioning, transparent and prosperous neighbour in the future. within this state reform, there needs to be support for the different religious and ethnic groups in ukraine. it is important that we do not overlook the struggles of minority groups, such as the crimean tatars and the hungarian community, or religious communities such as protestants and catholics.
in writing. i welcome the decision of the commission and the european parliament to supplement macro-financial assistance to ukraine with an additional eur 1.8 billion. i voted today for the report on the increase in this financial aid, convinced that the eu must show its support and solidarity with ukraine by all means at its disposal. the ukrainian economy is undergoing an acute and severe crisis, rooted in structural problems accumulated over time, which is aggravated by the armed conflict in the eastern regions and the illegal annexation of crimea by russia. over time, the ep has expressed its support for the stabilisation and economic and political reform of ukraine, the eu's associated partner. in its resolution of 15 january 2015 on the situation in ukraine, the ep welcomed the commission's proposal to supplement macro-financial assistance to ukraine with eur 1,8 billion and called for a major assistance plan for ukraine.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report on the annual report on taxation. it is a well-crafted document that takes account of recent debates on the existence of uncompetitive tax practices at european level, but also proposes measures to correct them.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support this report and its calls. i do believe we need to end banking secrecy, and to enforce and enhance taxation coordination in europe, protecting competitiveness for businesses, social welfare for citizens and maintaining a level playing field between member states. taxation should only ever be understood as a tool used to boost market development and not to stifle it. at the same time, tax fraud is one of the main sources of disparity and market failure and this report sets out some very good proposals for the fight against this in europe.
in writing. we voted on the annual report on taxation, adopted today in the european parliament plenary. i welcome the rapporteur's concern to identify the key legislation and actions that should be taken to increase public revenues, to restore confidence in the fairness of our tax systems and to reduce the burden on honest taxpayers. the report also shows that strong action is needed both within the eu and internationally to reduce tax evasion, to eradicate tax fraud and tax avoidance, and to combat aggressive tax planning and tax havens. the report proposes a holistic approach to tax policy that could prove a pragmatic tool to stimulate growth and help emu take deeper root, taking into account the particularities of each member state's economies and their sovereign competence to take specific tax decisions.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, my most sincere thanks go to the rapporteurs, ms thomas and mr fernandes. they have presented very clearly the importance of this proposed amendment for the european economy, as well as the urgent need for a decision to be taken. we in the commission, together with member states, made every effort possible to adopt as many programmes as possible in 2013 and to do so with a higher standard for quality of spending. we launched informal dialogues with member states in advance of the formal adoption of the multiannual financial framework (mff) and i can say here that, as a result of concerted efforts, the time that was taken to adopt programmes during this round of the mff was four months shorter than in the previous mff. but despite these efforts, because of the late adoption of the council regulation laying down the mff for 2014-2020 and also owing to delays involving the legislative acts, we unfortunately had the negative impact of having 300 programmes, or 47% of the programmes, that we could have adopted in 2014. as already mentioned, this is an amount of eur 21.1 billion. so, with six months lost because of the delay, all we are proposing in this technical adjustment is to use flexibility to extend this period by allowing us, as framed in article 19 of the mff regulation, for a revision of the mff before 1 may 2015. i would like to share with you three very quick points. first, staff at the commission are working very hard to accelerate adoption so we can have around eur 16 billion for 2015 and the remainder, as proposed, adopted in 2016. second, we have very much appreciated the fact that parliament’s committee on budgets has taken this issue very seriously and has worked on getting a fast proposal here in this chamber. i certainly join the rapporteurs in hoping for a positive vote. third, both ms thomas and mr fernandes talked about the need to use the flexibility that parliament has been fighting for to adjust the mff in future years. i just want to recall that we have committed to a mid-term review and revision of the mff, and we in the commission will be working on a very serious proposal when the time comes. we are very mindful of the significance of all we do and the speed at which we do it for the health of the european economy, improving our competitiveness, creating more jobs, and improving the lives of the european people. you have our commitment to act on your approval of revision immediately but also to make sure that money flows into programmes that generate opportunities and growth in europe.
rap avis regi. this is the first time. mr president, the adoption of the revision of the multiannual financial framework is a key condition for not losing the 2014 allocations for the various funds that could not be used due to the late adoption of some of the programmes. i am confident that the european parliament will today vote a very substantial majority in favour of this revision. cohesion policy is one of the most affected by these delays and faces some of the largest sums we have in mind. that is why, considering that it is the most successful investment policy of the european union, we must solve this problem quickly. there is no time to waste after today's adoption of the revision so that implementation can move forward at full speed. the 2015 budget should also be amended and i ask the commission and the member states to complete the adoption schedule for the remaining programmes as soon as possible so as to eliminate delays. i also ask the european commission to ensure, and to assure us, that these delays will not become new accumulations of late payments, which are already affecting cohesion policy programmes.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, we are mid-april and 47% of the approximately 300 operational programmes are still far from being approved. an unprecedented situation, forcing us to resort to the evaluation of bureaucratic and unnecessary procedures, which cause delays. the commission and the member states should take note of such delays and address them as a matter of priority in order to avoid similar situations in the future. the mid-term evaluation, at the mid-point of the programming period, will provide the opportunity to revise the timetable for adopting operational programmes. the outstanding payments to section 1b of the union budget should be part of the revision package in the mid-term evaluation. this year, the commission foresees the transfer of eur 21 billion of unused commitments in 2014. i would point out, however, that this means that we are obliging the member states to absorb a much larger volume of funds by supplementing unused allocations, with the risk of the funds allocated being disbursed. we must ensure that the commitment and payment appropriations of each member state are respected. on the other hand, the high level of accumulation of outstanding payments and unpaid invoices by the end of 2014 for programmes financed by the structural and investment funds will crowd out the volume of payments in 2017. in order to avoid possible overcrowding, the commission should consider that the remaining allocations be phased over the period 2015-2017. we are at an important point in the process of starting the current programming period, so we appreciate that any delays can have serious consequences for the implementation of investments at regional level and for european citizens. national authorities should cooperate in order to adopt the remaining operational programmes in due time and to start funding under these programmes.
mr president, of course i also welcome the proposed modification of the mff and the subsequent draft amending budget no 2, in respect of which i am the ppe’s shadow rapporteur in the committee on budgets. although this is not a problematic or disputed issue here in this house, it was essential in order to ensure that member states do not lose eu funds allocated to them. however, we all know that the late approval of the mff regulation and of the european structural funds regulations led to the delayed adoption of partnership agreements and subsequently to delays in the adoption of operational programmes. we now need to act to avoid fund losses, and we are rightly doing so, but of course in the future we will need to do more. we will need to prevent the next mff regulation, ahead of the next eu budget, from also being adopted late and we in parliament should be ready to do our share. the council should of course also be ready to do its share and we count on the commission’s role as an honest broker early in this process so that we avoid the late adoption of the next mff regulation. especially in the context of the economic crisis and the shortage of investments, the timely adoption of programming documents is essential for the implementation of eu policies. eu funds are an essential tool for investments and for job creation and we need them now more than ever, given high levels of unemployment. that being said, we should not blame the eu institutions alone for these delays. some member states showed, by having almost all operational programmes adopted, that there is a way, while others, including my own home country romania, still lag behind. therefore i call on member states, and especially on the net beneficiaries, to adopt all operational programmes in a timely manner in order for the eu funds allocated to them to reach the people of europe. one last issue to which i would like to draw attention is the risk of decommitments in the second half of the mff. we count on the commission’s role early in the process to avoid decommitments in the second half of the mff application.
mr president, we are dealing with a report which is vital to the proper functioning of the programmes for the member states, namely the revision of the multiannual financial framework. the multiannual framework must provide predictability and consistency to the european union's social action, which is why it is necessary to reallocate the amounts that could not be used by the end of 2014 over eur 21 billion. i believe it is in the interest of all beneficiaries that this report be voted on, to ensure adequate funding and full use of funds for all programmes included, but especially for programmes relating to the multiplication of jobs for young people, the provision of a competitive framework in europe and, not least, those relating to solidarity and social cohesion in the eu-28. i take this opportunity to draw attention to the need to improve the programmes carried out under the multiannual framework. the effectiveness of a programme does not depend uniquely on the amount budgeted, but also on the procedures that allow this amount to be fully used and to reach the target, the beneficiaries in the poorer regions of europe, in order to achieve a very clear objective: a social europe.
mr president, i would like to express my support for the proposal for a council regulation amending the regulation on the multiannual financial framework for the years 2014-2020. this proposal will have positive consequences on the new cohesion policy, which is essential for european development and recovery from the economic crisis. the new cohesion policy provides support to new innovative businesses, supports small and medium-size enterprises, creates sustainable jobs, improves skills, combats poverty, promotes social inclusion, gives remote regions broadband, tackles the brain drain, improves the environment, promotes energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy resources, builds vital transport links and strengthens the efficiency of public administrations. it is therefore important that resources are used in a timely manner and as effectively as possible to generate growth and jobs. i hope that the swift adaptation and implementation of remaining programmes will be carried out soon, that the calculations made by the commission will prove to be realistic and that the increase in the payments will be sufficient.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs, first of all, and the work done by the specialised committees of parliament. there is no doubt that we need the mff revised. but i would like to point out that we in parliament are doing our job if we vote on this report today. but the responsibility is the commission's. madam vice-president, i think you know very well what the problems were in the 2007-2013 period. there were big problems, because of complicated procedures, big bureaucracy: a lot of costs for applicants and very big delays in payments. i was in the government of my country, and i know the problems very well. if you don't simplify the procedures, we'll wake up next year and two years from now with the same problems. the investment fund must have an impact, including the elimination of regional disparities. i cannot agree with what you have told us and what mr juncker has told us, that regional criteria will not be used. you come from a country where you know what the need for investment means. you must also take account, commissioner, of the geographical criterion, and you must also take very clearly into account the criteria used for selecting experts, so that, in the end, this money from the citizens is distributed in such a way that we can reduce the gaps. i actually tabled an amendment, asking that the experts be under parliamentary control. i hope we have a 2014-2020 with much better effects than the last year.
in writing. i welcome and support the european commission's initiative to transfer the eur 21.1 billion for 2014 to commitments over the coming years, as a result of the delay in the adoption of european regulations. i consider that, given the limitations envisaged in the scaling up of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020, it is necessary that other amounts that could not be committed in 2014 and 2015 should also be transferred to subsequent years.
mr president, i regret that the commission, which is here with us today, has not dared to use the word 'genocide', because, madam commissioner, we are discussing the genocide of the armenian people and the centenary of that genocide. the title of our resolution, which we shall be voting on shortly, is indeed this. the text very clearly calls on turkey to recognize the genocide, which is particularly important in the perspective of reconciliation between the turkish and armenian peoples. in other words, we are not adopting this resolution to criticise turkey, not to teach it lessons, but to encourage it to take a further step towards the recognition of this genocide. that is why we have taken note of the openness and apology already expressed by the present president and the present prime minister. let me say that i understand the difficulty the turks have in acknowledging the genocide. it was equally difficult for the romanians, for example, to admit their participation in the holocaust and the crimes against the jews and the roma. however, i believe we are not fully men if we do not recognize what our predecessors did. because it is not a question of history or science as mr erdogan claims: it is a question of memory and not a question of history. but the memory is the responsibility of political leaders, opinion leaders and ordinary people. it is not the preserve of scientific seminars. that's our point of view.
mr president, i will pay tribute today, like everyone else, to the memory of so many innocent ottoman armenians who were victims of the atrocities perpetrated in the context of the world war i. i would like to reiterate the call to both sides, turkey and armenia, to ratify and implement, with no preconditions, the protocols of 2009 and to take all necessary further steps towards the normalisation and improvement of their bilateral relations. it is of utmost importance to keep the memories of the past in order to prevent new conflicts and not to repeat them in the future. i would also like to emphasise the need to avoid any political instrumentalisation of such events and work together towards reconciliation. as a historian, i would conclude by saying: it is wise of politicians not to use or to misuse history for political purposes.
mr. president, today it is still a matter of diplomatic disagreement for international political actors to recognize as genocide the crimes committed against the armenian people a hundred years ago. i am convinced that we do not want to offend the turkish people by recognizing the genocide, the importance of the creation of the modern turkish state is enormous, but we cannot pretend that certain things did not happen. we can see how dark events in history still have an impact today, a hundred years later. let us learn to say things, to name the events of the past, for it always carries with it the possibility of a new beginning. we remember the armenian genocide because the armenian people and respect for human life in general demands it. let us remember to strengthen ourselves in the face of the horrors that are happening in the world today. so that what happened to the armenian people in the years after 1915 can't happen to other communities in 2015. and by the way, there's a country in the european union today where 18th and 19th century mass murderers are celebrated as national heroes.
in writing.– with this resolution, europe’s elected representatives have joined the worldwide commemorations that will culminate on 24 april. i believe that, on the commemoration of the centenary of the genocide against the armenians, we must make more efforts in order to move beyond and to build a common future, by pushing for a deep process of normalisation and reconciliation between the armenians and the turks. turks and armenians should support smaller, symbolic efforts that allow for dialogue and understanding, like last year’s statements by erdoğan, or the return of the armenian properties that were confiscated by the turkish state. this process must occur at the individual, societal, and state levels. this is a process that requires time and reconsideration of identity, as well as of history, but which is essential for both countries’ mutual trust and future cooperation. i believe that it is fundamental that we all recognise, remember and condemn these kind of tragedies, if we want to avoid them in the future. only through awareness of universal human rights, through passing on a collective memory, and through the consistent application of legal norms and international law, can these kind of crimes be prevented or stopped in their evolution.
in writing. the commemoration in the european parliament today of the 100th anniversary of the armenian genocide reminds us of the most important motivation behind the european unification movement, namely the desire to make war and crimes against humanity on european soil impossible. this sad reminder reminds us that we are in a period, which began last year and will continue, in which we mark the centenary of events full of multiple meanings for the european nations, whether we think of the moment of sarajevo, the end of the first world war or the tragedies of the great war. if we allow nationalists, xenophobes, demagogues and populists to use this series of commemorations to promote their own agenda, then we will only contribute to deepening the crisis of confidence in which europe finds itself today. we have a duty to seek those meanings which bring the peoples of europe closer together, which highlight the common values we all share. we will thus be able to help overcome the deep moral and trust crisis that is engulfing our societies, and to rediscover the energy needed to build the common european home.
madam president, it can be argued that quota systems and anti-discrimination legislation are contrary approaches to achieving the same goal. while the quota approach is based on the assumption that disabled persons cannot compete on the labour market with the same opportunities as the rest of society, and therefore working places must be reserved for them, the non-discrimination approach assumes that the issue can already be solved through the guarantee of individual rights to equal treatment and through workplace adaptations. however, the two approaches can coexist and can complement each other. in the eu the employment equality directive is a great achievement in the field of anti-discrimination. it led to the elaboration of new legislation in many states that did not have any previous provisions in this field. establishing a quota system in the eu institutions could serve as an example and could help pave the way towards a more inclusive employment system. this is one of the areas in which it can most affect the life of its citizens.
mr president, the integration of disabled people in the labour market represents one of the biggest challenges for social and labour market policies in modern societies. the recent economic crisis hit disadvantaged people hard and increased their inactivity and unemployment rates. i therefore strongly support quotas for the employment of people with disabilities. quotas are a concrete way of demonstrating a country’s willingness to integrate and provide equal opportunities for people with disabilities. since the guarantee of equal treatment for people with disabilities can lead to the establishment of foundational standards, with which the member states are expected to comply, i believe the european union institutions must be in the forefront in the adoption of quotas through the introduction of the obligation to have a certain proportion of persons with disabilities among the staff of the european union institutions. the employment quotas for people with disabilities are a means to ensure human dignity, fight inequality and reduce social disadvantages – three issues that are at the core of our political will and activity.
in writing. in most member states, people with disabilities continue to face great difficulties in finding a job or in keeping their jobs, as the unemployment rate remains high - twice that of the general population. member states and the commission need to strengthen their cooperation, because people with disabilities have the right to work in a normal environment without any discrimination against them, including at the level of the european institutions, which must set an example in applying existing provisions in this area. i believe that priority should be given to preventing the exclusion of these people from the labour market and to preserving their jobs. on the other hand, young people in such situations who are at the beginning of their journey should be supported by inclusion in various programmes of adapted traineeships with the aim of identifying the skills they can develop with a view to their placement in the labour market.
in writing. the right to work of people with disabilities must be respected and supported by the european union. such an affirmative measure is a positive element. in the european union, there are over 80 million people with disabilities, according to the european union agency for fundamental rights, while in my country, romania, there are over 700 000 people with disabilities. their presence in the european administrative system strengthens the european institutions. in this way, the eu reaffirms its human and social values of tolerance and non-discrimination. in addition to the elements mentioned in the debate, i also believe that a fair and balanced representation of these special places throughout the eu is appropriate. we know that in some countries there is not enough information about these opportunities and enough affirmative action to stimulate employment, and i believe that citizens with disabilities in those countries need to be further supported. for example, romania already occupies fewer seats in the european institutions than its share at the european level, and this under-representation is even more visible when it comes to the seats allocated to people with disabilities in romania. i think we also have to fight territorial discrimination against people with disabilities. one reason for the limited number is that the competition venues in romania are not adapted for disabled access.
mr president, i believe that a partnership with mexico and other countries on the matter of pnr is compatible with european union data protection rules and, with guarantees from both parties, is essential in order to address today’s global security challenges. the collection of personal data with detailed safeguards is a measure that we need to adopt in order to counter the threat of terrorism and to ensure the effective implementation of the european security strategy. this is why i believe that we need to move towards a european passenger name record system as well. therefore, i strongly support the commission’s agreement with mexico on the transfer of pnr data, and with other countries as well. we have to take any measure in order to assure the security and the protection of our citizens.
we need certainty that the juncker plan will help to balance european development. the principles of its application must be solidarity, fairness, transparency and, above all, the fight against inequalities. it is clear that we need fair control of the funding initiated by the juncker investment plan and i ask, in this direction, to rethink the system of approval of projects submitted for funding. large infrastructure must remain a priority and, to this end, the strategy must look at the overall need to connect the border areas of the european union to the centre. discussions on the multiplication capacity of european public investment targeted by the juncker plan, the possibility of reducing european research funding, the potential unequal distribution of funds and how they can contribute to accentuating disparities between european regions are all factors that require a careful analysis of the juncker plan. investment and action at european level is needed. however, we need to ensure that these safeguards and the actions taken to this end will work and not represent an unnecessary tax burden.
mr president, we all know how russia seized crimea from ukraine. we all know how the war started in eastern ukraine, supported by russia. hundreds of thousands of ukrainians took refuge in the neighbouring countries. hundreds of thousands of them are internally displaced. millions of people in ukraine are in need of humanitarian aid due to the combined impact of conflict displacement and extreme poverty. returnees, refugees and internally displaced persons face shortages in food, health services, basic household items, clean water and shelter. medicines are in alarmingly low supply. as we know, the eu and its member states have jointly contributed aid, directly or through different organisations and bodies. i would like to take advantage of the presence of the commissioner to make an appeal to the commission and council to take additional measures and provide support, especially by increasing humanitarian aid for ukrainian citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to help france following the redundancies of 84 transport service units. according to eurostat, redundancies in the transport sector are a consequence of the global financial and economic crisis, which caused the decrease of road freight transport by vehicles over 3,5 tonnes by 13,4% in the eu and by 21% in france between 2007 and 2012. the bankruptcy and eventual closure of mory ducros resulted in the lay-off of over 2 800 employees, who now urgently need professional advice and guidance from specialist teams. that is why the financial support provided by the european globalisation adjustment fund facilitates the reconversion of displaced persons to other occupations needed on the labour market.
in writing. ‒ the redundancies in mory-ducros sas are linked to the general decline in physical output in europe, which leads to a reduction in volumes that, as described in the report, is directly linked to the global financial and economic crisis. the union has set up the european global adjustment fund to provide additional support to workers who sustain the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns or the global financial and economic crisis and to assist their reintegration into the labour market. i support financial assistance to mory-ducros sas workers who have become redundant and hope that deployment of assistance will be dynamic and made available as quickly and efficiently as possible.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, in accordance with point 13 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management - egf/2014/017 fr/mory-ducros, as requested by france. as the s&d group special rapporteur for the european globalisation adjustment fund, i support the implementation of the project, which respects the european procedure and rules on the subject.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the decision to set up the social protection committee, with the role of strengthening cooperation in the field of social protection, but also to set up a group of senior officials at eu level. it is of the utmost importance that better coordination in the field of employment and social policies is ensured at european union level, while fully respecting national competences. monitoring the social situation and the development of social protection policies in the union, facilitating the exchange of information, experience and good practice between the member states and the commission, and preparing reports or delivering opinions in areas of competence are just some of the functions that the social protection committee is required to undertake.
in writing. ‒ i believe it is important to ensure better coordination of employment, social and socio-economic policies, while fully respecting national competences, and i believe that the principle of equality between women and men must be integrated into all actions aimed at achieving these objectives.
in writing. ‒ in its conclusions of 17 december 1999 on the strengthening of cooperation for modernising and improving social protection, the council supported the commission’s proposal to establish a mechanism for enhanced cooperation, brought about by the work of the group of high-level officials, for the implementation of this action. the social protection committee set up by the council decision clearly demonstrated its utility as an advisory body for both the council and the commission and has contributed actively to the development of the open method of coordination, as established by the lisbon european council on 23 and 24 march 2000. considering its proven utility, i support the decision establishing the social protection committee as amended by the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the draft council decision establishing the social protection committee and repealing decision 2004/689/ec. such a committee allows the european union to assess social protection measures that are and can be implemented at member state and eu level. a true social europe means more social protection.
in writing. ‒ article 5 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) provides that the union is to take measures to ensure coordination of the employment policies of the member states, with a view to increasing their effectiveness by developing a coordinated strategy for employment. given the increasing number of people being made redundant and the high number of companies facing bankruptcy, it is of the utmost importance that there is a coherent employment policy across the eu. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution setting up the employment committee, a body which will certainly contribute to the success of guaranteeing, coordinating and implementing employment policies at european union level.
in writing. ‒ article 5 of the treaty on functioning of the european union (tfeu) states that the union shall take measures to ensure coordination of the employment policies of the member states to enhance their effectiveness by developing a coordinated strategy for employment and for promoting a skilled, trained and adaptable workforce and labour markets that are responsive to economic change. the proposed council decision aims at establishing an advisory employment committee to promote coordination between member states on employment and labour market policies. i supported this proposal in the plenary session considering the positive outcomes this initiative will have on eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted on the report on the draft council decision setting up the employment committee and repealing decision 2000/98/ec. analysing the employment situation at european level, the solutions developed by the member states and identifying effective and common measures must become a priority for the european union. such a special committee can ensure better cooperation at european level on employment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation to amend the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 so that financial allocations not used in 2014 can be transferred to use for subsequent years. the cohesion fund, the european agricultural fund for rural development and the european maritime and fisheries fund are just some of the axes that will be revised for the transfer of funds for the coming years. the multiannual financial framework (mff) is a multiannual programming structure which translates the political priorities of the union into financial terms over a period of at least five years. it sets annual ceilings for large categories of expenditure. the annual budgetary procedure shall respect those ceilings. the multiannual financial framework ensures budgetary discipline and the predictability of expenditure at eu level.
in writing. ‒ i support the proposal for a council regulation amending the regulation on the multiannual financial framework for the years 2014-2020, as this proposal will have positive consequences on the new cohesion policy, which is essential for the european development and recovery from the economic crisis. the new cohesion policy provides support to new innovative business, supports smes, creates sustainable jobs, improves skills, combats poverty, promotes social inclusion, gives remote regions broadband, tackles the brain drain, improves the environment, promotes energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy resources, builds vital transport links and strengthens efficiency of public administrations. it is therefore important that resources are used in a timely manner and as effectively as possible, to generate growth and jobs. i hope that the swift adoption and implementation of remaining programmes will be carried out soon, that the calculations made by the commission will prove to be realistic and that the increase in the payments will be sufficient.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (eu, euratom) no 1311/2013 establishing the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020. this recommendation provides the legal framework necessary for the implementation of the multiannual financial programmes and cohesion policy. the financial capacity of european programmes is maintained by a transfer of budgetary resources.
in writing. ‒ welcomes the adoption of the european parliament recommendation on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (eu, euratom) no 1311/2013 establishing the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014 to 2020. i voted in favour of this recommendation, which concerns the revision of the multiannual financial framework with the aim of ensuring that the unused allocations in 2014 are transferred to the following years, above the corresponding expenditure ceilings. this proposal for a regulation is absolutely necessary in the context of the delayed adoption of the cohesion policy regulations for the period 2014-2020 which has caused delays in the timely adoption of all operational programmes.
in writing. ‒ with this resolution, europe’s elected representatives have joined the worldwide commemorations that will culminate on 24 april. i believe that, on the commemoration of the centenary of the armenian genocide, we must make more efforts in order to move beyond and to build a common future, by pushing for a deep process of normalisation and reconciliation between the armenians and the turks. turks and armenians should support smaller, symbolic efforts that allow for dialogue and understanding, like last year’s statements by erdoğan, or the return of the armenian properties that were confiscated by the turkish state. this process must occur at the individual, societal, and state levels. this is a process that requires time and reconsideration of identity, as well as of history, but that is essential for both countries mutual trust and future cooperation. i believe that it is fundamental that we all recognise, remember and condemn these kinds of tragedy, if we want to avoid them in the future. only through awareness of universal human rights, through passing down a collective memory, and through the consistent application of legal norms and international law, can these kinds of crime can be prevented or stopped in their evolution.
in writing. ‒ the events that took place 100 years ago and affected the armenian population cannot be ignored. they are a historical fact and they are part of our history. in this context, together with our partners in turkey, we must find ways to honour the memory of the victims.
in writing. ‒ europe's most important asset remains its history, from which those who are must learn, so as not to repeat the horrors of those who are no longer. 100 years ago, in the confusion of the fall of the ottoman empire, it was the armenians who paid the price. the genocide was the result of a mixture of nationalism, religious hatred, fear and cowardice. the memory of the hundreds of thousands of armenians killed in 1915 must be accompanied by a good understanding of the lessons of history, because the same murderous mix-up led to subsequent genocides in european history. western europe, eastern europe and turkey must cooperate to leave to the coming generations a well-researched history defended by pride, distortions and false patriotism.
in writing. ‒ europe's largest ethnic minority, the roma community, has been an integral part of european culture and heritage for centuries. whether they are migrants or permanent residents, roma are sometimes exposed to a strong current of discrimination and stigmatisation. i think we need to continue to work to improve this situation. social inclusion of roma involves initiatives to bring this community closer to european values and to highlight the potential of roma society and the qualities that roma representatives possess. they believe that the european social fund funding lines that provide for social inclusion should contain better-defined programmes to develop the skills of roma representatives. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that racist attitudes or social discrimination have no place in european society. the fact that the eu is the winner of the nobel peace prize reinforces my conviction that democracy, tolerance, reconciliation and human rights are essential values that underpin our society.
in writing. ‒ discrimination, poverty, social exclusion, lack of education and access to basic healthcare are just some of the problems faced by the roma community and for which we must continue to fight. i believe that member states and the commission should make it a priority to implement the eu framework for national roma integration strategies and i believe it is important to promote equal access to housing, healthcare, education and decent living conditions for all roma citizens.
in writing. ‒ i would like to congratulate mr damian drăghici on his report on international roma day anti-gypsy attitudes in europe and the eu's recognition of the day of remembrance of the genocide against the roma in the second world war. as the report also argues, the genocide of the roma deserves full recognition, commensurate with the gravity of the crimes of the nazi regime and other regimes that set out to physically eliminate roma as well as other target groups in europe. during the second world war, at least 500,000 roma were exterminated, in some countries over 80% of the ethnic roma population was exterminated, a fact that is still largely ignored, which is why it is unknown to the general public. the commemoration of crimes against humanity and of extremely serious human rights violations is essential for promoting the causes of peace, reconciliation, democracy and human rights in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on international roma day - anti-gypsyism in europe and the recognition by the eu of the day of remembrance of the genocide against the roma in the second world war. it is very important that our common memory and history also contain elements related to what happened in the second world war against the roma community.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution and i welcome this initiative by the european parliament. by commemorating the tragic fate of the roma people in the second world war with this international memorial day, the european parliament sends an important message of solidarity and remembrance. this dark episode in european history reminds us of the traps of discrimination, racism and intolerance of ‘the other’. europe is united in diversity, and within this diversity, the human life is sacred.
in writing. ‒ for too long, the nazi genocide against the roma has remained an obscure and unrecognised chapter. the extermination of the roma population was part of the program of racial cleansing of europe. the history of the suffering of the roma in eastern europe, but also in parts of western europe, must be researched and passed on to future generations. the official recognition of the anti-roma genocide is all the more necessary as prejudice and hostility towards the roma population in europe is still alive.
in writing.– the number of car accidents is very high and many times a phone call can save lives. i think that the deployment of an emergency call system implanted in the vehicle and based on the 112 emergency number is a very important and concrete achievement for the safety of citizens. about 2 500 lives could be saved every year in europe. in 2013, the commission adopted two proposals to ensure that by october 2015 cars will automatically call emergency services in the event of a serious accident. the ʽecallʼ system automatically dials 112 in the event of a serious crash. however, data protection is a sensitive issue. vehicles should not be traceable and should not be subject to any constant tracking and the minimum set of data sent should include the minimum information.
in writing. road safety is a public health issue. the statistics, especially in states with less developed highway infrastructure, are worrying. in 2013, almost 26 000 people lost their lives in serious road accidents in the eu. the automated emergency system 'ecall' needs the support of the european parliament. preliminary data suggest that the adoption of an automated emergency system in cases where road users involved in accidents are unable to call 112 can save, on average, around 2 500 lives per year. a 10% reduction in the number of victims across the union is a target we must strive for. life comes first and, given that we have the possibility of introducing a mandatory, automated system that leads to saving human lives, the ecall report should have our support.
madam speaker, over 60 chronic conditions, including cancer, cardiovascular disease, liver disease, various brain diseases, depression, not to mention the economic and social consequences, are mentioned when we talk about excessive alcohol consumption, because abuse is really the problem, as was well said today. i stress the need for a new european strategy to combat excessive alcohol consumption, which should primarily aim at informing citizens about the risks of excessive consumption and the differences between moderate and excessive consumption. i believe that one of the priorities of this strategy should be to discourage alcohol consumption among young people. measures such as restricting the sale of alcoholic beverages to persons under the legal age for consumption, in particular restricting sales in buildings close to schools, or regulating the cross-border sale of alcohol on the internet, need to be reviewed and implemented as soon as possible by member states.
madam president, we all know that alcohol consumption is a major public health concern in the european union, responsible for a great number of diseases and deaths. in particular we are in need of more education and an awareness campaign to promote healthy lifestyles and discourage binge drinking, and of enforcement laws on the sale of alcohol in order to protect minors and prevent the sale of very cheap alcohol as well. i support a european action plan that supports member states implementing measurable, rigorous policy goals while respecting the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. we need citizens to be better informed about the results of alcohol abuse. the alcohol strategy would result in significant improvements in public health and in reduced costs in healthcare and social spending for the member states.
in writing. the fight against the harmful effects of alcohol abuse must continue at both member state and european level. education and information campaigns are the most appropriate means. we all know that reducing alcohol abuse reduces socioeconomic, health and safety problems. member states should make a major effort to educate minors early on about the harmful effects of excessive alcohol consumption. i also believe that we cannot deny the cultural aspects of responsible drinking in the member states. i believe that information warning consumers about the dangers of excessive drinking, such as drunk driving, harmful effects on the development of minors or on the foetus, should be rewarded. the best solution to combating alcohol abuse remains to diversify and intensify information campaigns.
member of the commission.– madam president, last friday, 24 april, we were commemorating the fact that it was two years since the terrible accident at rana plaza in bangladesh. as we know, 1 100 lives were claimed and over a thousand people were injured. it was a tragedy for everybody who lost their lives, for the families and for those who were injured, and it was a tragedy that could have been prevented. although the garment industry in bangladesh has been very successful over many years, this disaster drew attention to the shaky foundations on which it has been built. it also highlighted the world’s shared responsibility for taking action to redress the situation, given the links between the garment workers in bangladesh and consumers all around the world. and let us not forget that eu citizens are the largest consumers as regards clothes made in bangladesh. through the bangladesh sustainability compact, the eu, the us, the government of bangladesh and the international labour organisation, referred to as the ‘compact partners’, have pledged their engagement to improve labour rights and working conditions in the bangladesh garment and knitwear industry. since the launch of the compact in july 2013, health and safety conditions at the workplace have been improving in the bangladesh garment sector. however, a lot of progress is still needed. these were the conclusions of the compact follow-up meeting between all partners held in october 2014 and of the technical status report that we published last friday. since october 2014, the commission has noted and welcomed the continued progress made by the government of bangladesh to increase capacity and resources for safety inspections on buildings and factories, a responsibility they must fully assume in the long term. but there are outstanding issues and let me highlight them. the first of these is the adoption as a matter of highest priority by the government of bangladesh of the implementing regulations of the labour law. that was decided more than two years ago and it is imperative for the overall improvement of the situation, not least for the newly appointed inspectors in order for them to have clear rules to be able to work effectively. we hear that work is progressing, but i would urge the government of bangladesh to ensure that there are no further delays in adopting the rules and that all stakeholders contribute constructively to the process. it is also important that the implementing regulations address unfair labour practices, including remedies. this will correspond to the government’s commitment to prioritise effective investigation and the prosecution of those involved in unfair labour practices, including anti-union discrimination and reprisals. a matter of equal importance is that we expect the adoption of legislation to ensure that workers in export processing zones enjoy freedom of association and collective bargaining rights. i would also like to emphasise the vital role businesses should play in enabling labour rights and safe working conditions in bangladesh. we have seen an unprecedented engagement by the private sector in all aspects of the accord and the alliance, amounting to more than 250 retailers from 20 countries, and between them they have inspected around 2 500 factories since the launch of the compact. inspection findings and remedial actions are publicly available online together with the summaries of government-led factory inspections. the bangladesh industry association is also playing its role by actively raising awareness among its members of workers’ and trade union rights and the importance of a constructive social dialogue. we commend this engagement by the private sector. it must continue, including through building further on the supply-chain initiatives in line with internationally recognised guidelines and principles on corporate social responsibility. going beyond bangladesh, the commission is actively engaged at multiple levels through the organisation for economic cooperation and development (oecd) and the international labour organisation (ilo) with issues on corporate social responsibility in the garment sector. finally, compensation is one of the burning issues and it was not directly covered by the compact. the commission continues to encourage garment companies and retailers to play their full part in the rana plaza donors trust fund, regardless of whether they produced or sourced from rana plaza. it is important that the experience gained by the government from working with stakeholders on compensation contributes to ensuring that ultimately a sustainable system for insurance and compensation can be established in bangladesh in the future. i thank this house for your strong involvement and support for the actions here and i am looking forward to the debate tonight.
on behalf of the epp group. madam president, two months ago i led a delegation to bangladesh, in dhaka, on behalf of the subcommittee on human rights of the european parliament. the main purpose of the delegation was to understand the extent to which the working conditions of garment workers had improved following the rana plaza tragedy. it must be said that despite progress, the situation of the 4 million workers in this sector, which accounts for 80% of bangladesh's total exports, is a cause for concern. i was able to visit one of the over 4,000 garment factories in bangladesh, and i realized that rana plaza was a serious wake-up call for the safety of the building and the workers, and more attention was being paid to this issue. factories began to have fire safety systems, electrical installations made by engineers, and, above all, to reinforce buildings. it's a little better than it was before april 24, 2013 for the ones that work legally, not for the more than 2,000 who work underground. this is a very sensitive issue, as is the political situation in bangladesh and the deadlock resulting from the confrontation, from the unresolved conflict between the awami league and the bangladesh nationalist party, a conflict that does not allow for an improvement in rights and, in particular, in social rights. (the president agreed to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". madam president, i believe that this list has already been published. this isn't the first time we've had a discussion about good and bad students. the most serious situation, i believe, is that of child labour, because bangladesh is one of the countries which allows - like bolivia, among others - the employment of children who are sometimes only eight or nine years old. i understand the very aggressive attitude of the socialists towards business, but this is a matter of rights and, personally, i am concerned first and foremost about the rights of children, which are being violated. to give you a full answer, we visited a project very well supported by the union, which aims to reintegrate children who work in schools.
blue-card question. – mr mann, what do you think that the bangladesh government ought to do in order to avoid such tragedies in the future?
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, thank you. the objective of the landing obligation is undoubtedly a generous one - sustainable fishing, management of marine resources, reduction of mortality among these resources; all these are added values of the new fisheries policy. unfortunately, however, the legislative package is adopted at the end of 2013, enters into force in 2014 and, although it provides for a phased period, we are already behind with the implementation of these rules. the text we are voting on tomorrow is a reconciliation text, which ensures that the regulation is consistent with the provisions of the new fisheries policy. the fact that this landing obligation is coming into force in stages gives it a chance to be sustainable and applied correctly because, in our view, the success of the fisheries policy depends to a large extent on the landing obligation, on how it will be implemented. what we want to point out, however, is that parliament has behaved constructively, has tried to mitigate a number of effects which, in the negotiations with the council, it has also succeeded in promoting. we hope that this regulation will be a success, although we have enough doubts, because in practice, as my colleague alain cadec has pointed out, there are unfortunately a number of member states which are not very happy about this new approach. but it is our duty and the commission's duty to promote and support it, since it is, as i said, essential to fisheries policy.
mr president, on 1 may 2010 a large meeting took place in bucharest. then, thousands of people witnessed the launch of a new political party, the national union for the progress of romania. this week, we celebrate five years since our founding, and i speak to you as a member of the party that has managed to impose itself on the political scene through seriousness, determination, by promoting equity and, above all, by being a party that keeps its word. today, unpr is the second largest political party in romania, with over 350,000 members. as a parliamentary force, unpr is the third largest party in romania, with over 50 mps in both houses. we are the main ally of the social democratic party, with which we form the center left alliance, and the president of the unpr, mr. gabriel oprea, is the deputy prime minister of romania. unpr has always promoted internal stability and is a supporter of the rule of law, the right balance of fundamental state powers, which must guarantee independence, justice and the fight against corruption. unpr is a party that promotes respect for human dignity, opposing discrimination in society. the fact that i, an ethnic roma, was endorsed by the unpr for the position of european parliamentarian is proof of this. the national union for the progress of romania will systematically promote the center-left programs that it believes in and that europe and romania need. having regard to the main draft public policy of (...) (speaker interrupted by the president)
we held a public hearing last week on the situation of national minorities in europe, with the support of the european people's party. the expert presentations highlighted the need for further action by member states, especially those that joined after 2004, because of the huge gap between the possibilities offered by the legislation and the reality. as regards romania, this was also acknowledged by president johannis in a message to the 12th congress of the rmdsz. however, a few days later, the paragraph on this was removed from the official presidential communiqué because someone realized that this was in direct contradiction to the position that the romanian state is trying to represent before international forums, that the minority issue was settled in an exemplary way and no further steps are needed. this is not the case at all, as the romanian head of state knows, but it seems that there are things that even the president is not allowed to talk about in romania: that the romanian hungarian community still has many unresolved problems.
mr. president, the national union for progress of romania is a national political movement of the centre-left which aims at implementing in romania a government based on progressive, reform programs, and ensuring the political, economic and social stability of the country. unpr is primarily aimed at young people who need support and guidance in their early careers, young families who need support in raising and educating their children, the working generation, all those who believe in a better life in their country. unpr believes that investing in human resources, especially in young people, is the key to development, the key to the progress of a society. the population, and in particular the young population, is the central element in defining and structuring any strategy for sustainable socioeconomic development. now more than ever, romania needs a realistic and coherent strategy for its economic and social development for the coming decades, and the younger generations must be the major factor in such a strategy.
in writing. the digital age has brought many changes. some of the industries have developed further, others have had difficulty identifying how to take advantage of the opportunities offered by new information technologies. the film industry is a sector that today is at the moment where it has to make a decision to integrate the benefits, but also the changes brought about by the digital age. i welcome the report focusing on the new challenges facing the film industry and i invite the commission and my fellow meps to reflect together on the best mechanisms by which we can do this. as someone who comes from the digital industry, i believe that we need to stimulate the adaptation of the european film industry to this new era by providing additional funding, creating dialogue groups, supporting initiatives that help to preserve our cultural traditions and the memory of european film, or supporting private initiatives that respond to competition from other countries in film distribution. to do this, one aspect is paramount: digital education! we need to facilitate and support mechanisms through which future filmmakers, but also those working in the industry, are prepared for the challenges of the digital age.
in writing. we all know that the importance of forests, both economically, socially and environmentally, in the international, european, regional and national context is generally well known and is partly legitimised in the relevant cooperation and funding programmes. i therefore consider it necessary to apply a sufficiently developed and eligible legal framework at european and national level in order to create a balance in support schemes. i believe that the european union must act to support, coordinate and complement the member states' forest policy actions around the objective of ensuring the sustainable development of the forest sector and to raise the quality of life of european citizens by enhancing all the goods and services that forests provide in the economic, social, cultural and environmental fields. i also believe that any reform of eu forest policies must not be limited to the challenges of climate change, but must also take into account all aspects of the contribution of forests to sustainable development at regional, european and international level.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure mr president, in your speech you said that if this proposal were to be voted on, it would create competition for those who produce energy, for example, from wood pulp. do you think that in a market economy there should be no competition and competition?
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure i would like to ask our colleague mazuronis how he thinks that the european union commission should stimulate the consumption of advanced biofuels and biofuels.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, even though i felt that he was not entirely satisfied with what he had achieved, but i think that we should always think about what it means if we do not vote for a report, where we are left. a problem as complex and complicated as the one we are discussing today, certainly cannot bring about a compromise that satisfies everyone, but i strongly believe that we need to talk less about politics here. we need to talk rationally and how it's good for the citizens who sent us. i think it's a step forward, and i think we have to take into account the need for re-technology, the need for investment. that is why, commissioner, i think you have a very important role to play in the commission: to convince mr junker and the junker committee to allocate to research, because we cannot make progress without research in this area as well. we have to keep in mind that the energy mix is extremely important, and we have to see what we can do about the effects on citizens, the cost of energy, but also the right to a clean environment. it's extremely complicated. i think compromise is a step forward. of course, we cannot say that everything has been resolved by this compromise, but we can say that we have made progress and, of course, i join those who vote for this report.
in writing.– the agreement this week sends a clear message from the european parliament; we need to limit the use of first-generation biofuels and move towards more sustainable alternatives which put less pressure on the environment, food prices, and food security. using existing agricultural land for first-generation biofuels, and clearing natural carbon sinks such as ancient forests, actually contribute to the environmental problems which biofuels were supposed to help solve. the use of sustainability criteria should drive the development of more advanced biofuels, ones which are fully compatible with environmental objectives and not in direct competition with food crops.
member of the commission.– mr president, we are here today to finalise the last stage of the legislative process of adopting a directive that aims to tackle a very serious and highly visible environmental problem: the overconsumption and littering of lightweight plastic carrier bags. these bags, as was already mentioned, easily escape waste management streams and accumulate in our environment, often in the form of marine litter. once discarded, they can last for hundreds of years, often as harmful microscopic particles that threaten the environment worldwide, especially the marine environment in terms of marine litter. the very high and ever-increasing consumption rates of plastic bags – currently some 100 billion bags per year in the eu alone, and up to 200 bags per person per year – also imply a squandering of resources and have become a symbol of a throw-away society and a symbol of unsustainable lifestyles. lightweight plastic carrier bags that are used once only and then discarded are the example of a ‘linear’ model of dealing with resources. action is needed. we need to tackle the problem of marine pollution, which is to a great extent caused by plastic waste, and we need to save resources and move to a circular economy. clearly, this is a global problem, requiring action beyond the eu, but it is important that we do our part. an early second reading agreement on amending the packaging and packaging waste directive to reduce the use of lightweight plastic carrier bags can be formalised today. looking at the different positions of the co-legislators at the start of the legislative process, it is clear that this has not been an easy task, but thanks to the efforts undertaken by all parties, we now have a compromise on the table. let me particularly express my gratitude to the rapporteur, margarete auken, for her dedicated and thorough work on the commission’s proposal, as well as to the shadow rapporteurs in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. the commission welcomes the agreement reached by the co-legislators, even though it includes some elements that would, in the commission’s view, have been better addressed in a different, and in a much broader context. nevertheless, this agreement has been possible because we all share the same objective: limiting the consumption and littering of plastic carrier bags. the text presented to you here today will make a real difference in reaching this objective.
blue-card question. – mr hölvényi, you are in fact talking about a matter of choice. you talked about compromise. i do not think that we should have to compromise with our lives, because all these items are very polluting. in the end, i truly hope that we are going to call on the commission and the council to ban completely all these plastic carrier bags and not merely to reduce or limit them. do you not think so?
in writing.– plastic bags have a negative impact on the environment and human health. it is absolutely necessary that the member states take action. parliament considerably improved the commission proposal, also leaving enough space for the member states to act in order to curb the consumption of lightweight plastic carrier bags in the european union. on the other hand, the consumers have to be aware how their specific behaviour impacts on the environment and public health before they decide to use or not plastic bags.
blue-card question.– it is such a pleasure to put a question to my friend, mr eickhout, concerning this very important issue. as you mentioned, we are talking about monitoring, reporting and verification, and so on. but that is only talking. do you not think it is time for the european union to add this important issue to the negotiations taking place before the climate change summit, and for this important issue to be then addressed at the summit in paris next year? as you said, it is time to move to the next phase. we have talked too much about this issue. it is time for implementation.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure. madam president, i understand that you have criticised the commission for not being involved and for not having solutions. of course, we as parliamentarians can criticise the actions of the commission and the council. my question is: do you have a concrete proposal to add to this important issue for everyone?
the next item on the agenda is the vote. (for results and other voting details: see minutes)
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision authorising member states to become parties, in the interest of the european union, to the international maritime organisation's international convention on standards of training, certification and watchkeeping for fishing vessel personnel. the objective of the convention is to ensure that fishing vessel personnel have the necessary qualifications to mitigate potential risks to the safety of persons and/or property at sea or risks to the marine environment during operations on board seagoing vessels. i believe that maritime training provides greater safety and security in this area. maritime know-how is of strategic importance in maintaining the eu's position as a world leader in maritime affairs.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the proposal as it authorises member states to become signatories to the international convention on fishing vessel personnel of the international maritime organization.
in writing. on 7 july 1995, the international maritime organisation (imo) adopted in london the international convention on standards of training, certification and watchkeeping for seafarers on fishing vessels (hereinafter referred to as the 'stcw-f convention'). four member states have ratified this convention: spain, denmark, latvia and lithuania. the european union does not have the competence to ratify the stcw-f convention, only member states can do so. however, member states cannot ratify the convention without the eu's agreement. i voted for this resolution because its text authorises member states to ratify the stcw-f convention.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i strongly agree with the need of unified standards for the security of large fishing vessels personnel. adequate verifications should indeed be mandatory on the qualifications and health conditions of these people. it is a dangerous profession and this can both save lives and improve the quality of this field and i welcome the final text adopted by our house.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft amending budget for the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework. the budget is presented together with the parallel commission proposal for the revision of the multiannual financial framework (mff) for the period 2014-2020, in accordance with article 19 of the mff regulation, and essentially reschedules the corresponding commitments for the following years. this project covers all 28 member states and aims to avoid delays in the adoption of programmes and ensure a smooth implementation of programmes supporting growth and employment. it is equally important that payment credits in this context are not modified in any way.
in writing. ‒ i supported this proposal to transfer the bulk of the allocations that were not used in 2014 to 2015, as adopted with unanimity in the committee on budgets.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the council position on draft amending budget no 2/2015 of the european union for the financial year 2015, section iii the commission, because its text invokes the need to be able to transfer unused appropriations from the 2014 budget to the budgets of the following years, this measure being vital for european citizens and for the economy of all member states, because in this way it can contribute to job creation and economic growth, two of the major objectives of the eu.
in writing. i voted on the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 2/2015 of the european union for the financial year 2015. i agree with the position expressed in the report on the need for closer monitoring by the commission of budget implementation in order to avoid the accumulation of an increasing volume of unpaid invoices. in the context of the decision to transfer the majority of unused appropriations from the 2014 to the 2015 financial year, i agree with the proposal to the commission to have a flexible approach to deal with possible difficulties resulting from an uneven financial profile, which could lead to unused commitments in the 2014-2020 period.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the installation of the ecall in-vehicle system. road transport now exceeds 100 million vehicles per year in various member states and is increasing due to the consolidation of the european union. this is why road safety is a matter of major concern throughout the european union and for all its citizens. the purpose of the eu-wide interoperable ecall initiative is to introduce in all vehicles in the eu the minimum functionalities necessary to ensure the proper handling of emergency calls by emergency response services. i believe that action at eu level is needed to ensure interoperability and continuity of service across europe, which is a laudable and auspicious initiative in the current european context.
in writing. ‒ on 13 june 2013, the commission adopted two proposals to ensure that by october 2015 cars will automatically call emergency services in the event of a serious crash. the ecall system automatically dials 112 – europeʼs single emergency number – in the event of a serious accident. this legislative package contained the regulation on the in-vehicle system which establishes the technical requirements for the ec type-approval of vehicles regarding the ecall in-vehicle system on the basis of which the sehnalová report has been drafted. the deployment of a public eu-wide emergency call system embedded in the vehicle and based on the 112 number represents a very important and concrete achievement for the safety of citizens. about 2 500 lives could be saved every year in europe. i therefore voted for adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the regulation on type-approval requirements for the installation of a 112-based ecall system in vehicles so that citizens can benefit from it from 2018. in the eu, 26 000 people die in road accidents every year. improving safety on european roads is a pressing need and requires a system that can reduce the time it takes for emergency services to reach the scene of an accident. ecall is a valuable, free and secure tool for respecting privacy. accident location data should be used for the same objective: halving road deaths over the next 10 years. the negotiations for this regulation clarified the rules according to which the vehicle coordinates are transmitted only when the 112 service is activated. this data is only transmitted to the 112 service and not to other operators. the mandatory nature of ecall for new types of cars is paramount. parliament voted today to introduce this life-saving device which can be compared to the introduction of seat belts and airbags. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the council's first reading position with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council concerning type-approval requirements for the installation of a 112-based ecall in-vehicle system and amending directive 2007/46/ec, as i consider that the installation of a 112-based ecall in-vehicle system is highly necessary and very useful for all citizens.
in writing. ‒ reducing the greenhouse gas intensity of fuels used in road transport and non-road mobile machinery by 6% by 2020 is an ambitious target of the european commission. one of the objectives set out in the sixth community environment action programme, established by decision no 1600/2002/ec of 22 july 2002 (4), is to achieve levels of air quality that do not have a significant negative impact on human health and the environment. i voted in favour of this directive because it would further reduce the national permitted levels of emissions of the main pollutants of the member states, as well as the emissions associated with refuelling motor vehicles at petrol stations and would address the sulphur content of fuels.
in writing. ‒ i appreciate and consider it important that the report includes the latest available information to assess the modelling of greenhouse gas emissions linked to indirect land use change and associated with the production of biofuels and bioliquids, including the measurement of trends in agricultural yield and productivity, co-product allocation and observed global rates of land use change and deforestation, as well as the possible impact of union policies such as climate, environment and agricultural policies, involving stakeholders in this analysis process.
in writing. ‒ the fuel quality directive and renewable energy directive (red) aim at limiting the contribution of conventional biofuels towards the attainment of targets in the red, improving greenhouse gas (ghg) performance of biofuel production processes, encouraging greater market penetration by advanced biofuels and reporting the estimated indirect land use change (iluc) emissions. i supported the adoption of the report in the plenary because i believe it is fundamental to move towards advanced biofuels that deliver real benefits for the climate while avoiding competition with food production.
in writing. ‒ one of the objectives of directive 2009/28/ec of the european parliament and of the council is that each member state must ensure that the share of energy from renewable sources used in all means of transport will be at least 10% of the final consumption of energy in the transport sector in that member state by 2020. i voted for this report because the amendments introduced aim to achieve this objective, as well as other important and very necessary objectives, including the encouragement of research and development in the new advanced biofuel production sectors.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report and welcome the work done by the rapporteur, as i believe no effort should be spared in our attempts to improve fuel quality with a view to increasing the use of renewable, green and sustainable energy sources. we could indeed promote even more the development and production of biofuels, and i believe that the short-term costs of implementing directives like this one, of adapting the car manufacturing industry to the new fuels, will be easier to bear than the long-term immense environmental costs associated with pollution and loss of sources for current conventional fuels.
in writing. ‒ finding viable policies to decarbonise the transport system has proved more difficult in practice than we initially estimated, and achieving the targets we have set in this regard will not be possible without the contribution of biofuels. today we voted after two years of negotiations full of syncope and compromise. the final document is not what the european parliament wanted at first reading, but it clarifies some uncertainties and sets a roadmap in quantifying the real impact of iluc on greenhouse gas emission reductions from first generation biofuels. our role is to regulate to the extent that we facilitate a stable and investment-friendly framework that fosters job creation and sustained economic growth. the imposition of a 7% cap on first generation biofuels will allow us to redirect investments to advanced, so-called sustainable biofuels without jeopardising investments already made in the first generation sector. we do not yet have a scientific method for determining the factor - therefore, i believe that the agreement reached on its monitoring and reporting will provide us with the data needed to introduce this factor into the sustainability criterion.
in writing. ‒ reducing the consumption of plastic bags for transport, along with packaging and packaging waste, must be an immediate concern for all those responsible for protecting the environment. given that it can take several hundred years for a plastic packaging to decompose, it is more than worrying that over 8 billion bags become waste in europe every year. i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation requiring member states to take measures to reduce the consumption of plastic carrier bags of less than 50 microns. however, i think we need to go further and focus on encouraging consumers to reuse plastic carrier bags. moreover, the introduction of standards setting biodegradable properties for carrier bags used on the european market, as well as the setting of quantity limits for carrier bags, would contribute to the decrease in the number of plastic carrier bags.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the obligation on the commission to provide for specific measures on the labelling of biodegradable and compostable plastic carrier bags is an important means of avoiding misleading practices of false labelling of plastic bags, especially in the case of so-called 'oxo-biodegradable' plastic bags.
in writing. ‒ parliament concluded its first reading on 16 april 2014, which was adopted by a wide majority of 543/54/68. it supported binding targets to achieve a 50% reduction in consumption of plastic bags within three years and an 80% reduction within five years as compared to the average eu consumption in 2010. considering the fact that discarded plastic bags cause serious damage to the environment, not to mention the harm being done by marine litter to biodiversity, i strongly support parliamentʼs recommendation. the problem can be easily and efficiently addressed as already proved in some member states; putting a charge on the use of plastic bags is a quick and sustainable way of reducing the problem overnight.
in writing. ‒ the european commission's objective for this directive is to limit negative environmental effects, especially in terms of waste generation, to encourage waste prevention and more efficient use of resources, while limiting negative socioeconomic effects. more specifically, the proposal aims to reduce the consumption of plastic carrier bags with a thickness of less than 50 microns (0.05 millimetres) in the european union. i voted in favour of this report because it meets the objectives of the european commission's proposal, which is essential to improve the environment and the quality of life of citizens.
in writing. ‒ this report is in truth long overdue. i voted in favour because i believe all our voters are tired of seeing trash dumps and landfills full of plastic bags. these items have become ubiquitous in our lives and it is unfortunate. we should actively promote people to reuse bags, to use recyclable and biodegradable materials and to make an effort, over a small immediate personal comfort, for the protection of our environment. i believe any costs associated with this text would be far outweighed by the costs of cleaning and processing the massive amounts of plastic bags in usage today.
in writing. ‒ all the studies carried out by european and global institutions over the last 30 years, unanimously acknowledged in the global work to reduce the widespread use of plastic, show that the environment is irretrievably poisoned by the indiscriminate use of this material. in this context, i welcome the vote in the european parliament plenary today in favour of new legislative proposals to limit plastic bags, considered to be the most widely used and most polluting packaging material, throughout the european union. the legislative changes on the use of plastic bags are in line with all sustainable development programmes adopted both at european level and by the governments of the european union member states.
in writing. i welcome the fact that, after lengthy negotiations between the european parliament and the council, the commission has improved its proposal on reducing the consumption of thin plastic carrier bags by including an obligation for member states. as such, i voted in favour of the recommendation on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 94/62/ec as regards the reduction of the consumption of lightweight plastic carrier bags. in practice, in terms of waste legislation, we will for the first time have eu-wide binding measures on waste generation and management. i believe that romania has a direct interest in the introduction of mandatory measures at eu level that will have positive effects in our waste management system.
in writing. ‒ maritime shipping remains the only means of transportation which is not included in the european union’s action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. at eu level, the international maritime sector today accounts for around 3% of global greenhouse gas emissions and these are expected to increase significantly in the future. the main objective of this regulation is to establish a european monitoring, reporting and verification (mrv) system for co2 emissions from ships as the first step in a staged approach to reducing these emissions. in order to reduce the related administrative costs while ensuring robust results, simple and lean mrv requirements are proposed. an eu-wide system for the mrv of greenhouse gas emissions from shipping is necessary in order to improve the information about ship efficiency and emissions from the sector, and encourage reducing emissions and fuel consumption.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the monitoring, reporting and verification of carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport and amending directive 2009/16/ec, as it introduces a much-needed system for monitoring, reporting and verifying carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on amending regulation (ec) no 223/2009 on european statistics in order to strengthen the professional independence of national statistical authorities. recent economic developments have once again demonstrated the need to further strengthen the credibility of statistical authorities. the reliability of statistical data with regard to the technical evaluation criteria is a condition for ensuring the confidence of users, but equally important is the credibility of the institutions producing statistics. in this context, the professional independence of the statistical authorities should receive special attention and be guaranteed by law.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 223/2009 on european statistics, given the importance and necessity of such european statistics. i would stress that the adoption of the act in line with the council's position is a success.
in writing. ‒ i think the main thrust of the commission's proposal that a management plan for several species in the baltic sea is needed is a correct one.
in writing. ‒ a management plan for the baltic sea cod stocks has been in place since 2007, but the stocks of herring and sprat are not yet subject to a management plan. the current proposal is the first multiannual plan under the reformed common fisheries policy (cfp). it aims to ensure sustainable exploitation of stocks of cod, herring and sprat, and provide stability for fishing opportunities, while ensuring that management is based on the most up-to-date scientific information on interactions within and between the stocks and with other aspects of the ecosystem and environment. this is the first multiannual plan under the reformed cfp which will serve as a model for upcoming multiannual plans. i support the adoption of the report, as it is in line with the objectives of the cfp to ensure environmental, economic and social sustainability and respect the precautionary and ecosystem-based approach to fisheries management.
in writing. ‒ the european union is a contracting party to the united nations convention on the law of the sea of 10 december 1982. the convention provides for obligations to maintain and conserve certain fish species so that they can be exploited at levels that ensure maximum long-term production. i voted for this report on the ep and council regulation because it introduces a series of amendments aimed at restoring, reaching and maintaining the populations of the species concerned above levels which allow maximum sustainable yields for those stocks to be achieved.
in writing. ‒ one of the central objectives of common fisheries policy (cfp) reform is the gradual elimination of discards in eu fisheries through the introduction of a landing obligation. all catches must be brought and retained on board the fishing vessels, recorded, landed and counted against the quotas where applicable, in accordance. the ʽomnibusʼ regulation serves to make the landing obligation operational and to remove any legal and practical impediments to its implementation by removing or amending certain provisions within the current regulations on technical, management and control measures. i voted in favour of the landing obligation, as it provides for the implementation of one of the central objectives of the cfp reform: the elimination of the wasteful practice of discarding. it creates planning and legal certainty for fishermen until new legislation in line with the reformed cfp is in place.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it provides for the introduction of a landing obligation for catches of species subject to catch limits rules, as well as for other species subject to the provisions on 'minimum sizes' in the mediterranean sea, landings which aim to phase out discards in all fishing activities in the european union. at the same time, i consider these measures to be essential for the protection of the marine ecosystem.
in writing. ‒ the conclusion of the protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and russia, of the other part, to take account of croatia's accession to the european union is a significant moment for croatia as part of the eu. the protocol includes the republic of croatia as a contracting party to the agreement and represents the eu's commitment to provide the authentic version of the agreement in the new official language of the european union. the partnership and cooperation agreement with the russian federation covers, inter alia, the promotion of trade and investment, including trade in transport services, and establishes a framework for cooperation, which is limited to economic, financial and general technical cooperation, in various sectors. i voted in favour of this report, which represents a normal step in the current context of croatia's full accession to the european union.
in writing. ‒ this is a technical report that takes into account the accession of croatia to the eu and the need to reflect this change in the existing partnership and cooperation agreement with russia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this draft european parliament legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the russian federation, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union, given the need and importance of this protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement.
in writing. ‒ on 19 june 1999, one year after the sorbonne declaration, ministers responsible for higher education in 29 european countries signed the bologna declaration, agreeing on six important common objectives for the coherent and harmonious development of higher education by 2010. the bologna process has brought about profound reforms in higher education for all participating states, marked by changes in higher education legislation and a reconsideration of the basic principles of the educational process for a knowledge-based society. the role of the bologna process underlines once again that education and research are the main pillars of our society in terms of promoting skills development, growth and job creation. i voted in favour of this report because i am convinced that investing in education is essential to combat poverty, social inequalities, social inclusion and unemployment, especially among young people. in this regard, member states are invited to provide more mobility opportunities and to step up the implementation of the mobility 2020 strategy, as well as to take into account the effective promotion of the erasmus+ and horizon 2020 programmes.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the fact that some member states have developed a comprehensive strategy to include students from disadvantaged socioeconomic backgrounds in higher education, thus addressing the problem of the so-called 'social filter', and i hope that it will be an example for all member states.
in writing. ‒ today, ensuring comparability and compatibility in the standards and quality of higher education qualifications, supporting mobility of students and internationalisation, and providing students with a wider and more transparent choice of high-quality educational opportunities are matters of the outmost importance, not only for european students, but also and especially for the recovery of the european economy. these are powerful means to tackle issues like youth unemployment, economic constraints and demographic changes. this is why i support the adoption of this report in the plenary, as i believe that it will boost the bologna process and provide the necessary means to accomplish the fulfilment of its goals.
in writing. ‒ the bologna process has meant profound reforms of higher education for all participating states, marked by changes in legislation and a reconsideration of the basic principles of the educational process. my country signed the bologna declaration in 1999, committing itself to include the objectives set out in it in the priorities of romanian higher education. i voted in favour of this report because its text reiterates the importance of this 'process' in the development of education and learning at eu level, but at the same time involves the entire academic community, the social partners and 'calls for the political commitment and cooperation of the seis ministers in developing a common strategy to achieve the reforms of the bologna process' and, by implication, the education-related objectives set out in strategy 2020.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on monitoring the implementation of the bologna process, particularly in view of the social dimension of this process. education is one of the areas most affected by the economic difficulties facing the eu. therefore, i believe that a considerable funding effort is required to make the target of 3% of the union's gdp for research and education by 2020 achievable. the fact that one third of european employers are having difficulty recruiting appropriately qualified staff, despite unemployment affecting the younger generation, also obliges member states to streamline education policies in order to bring vocational skills training systems into line with labour market requirements. last but not least, the mutual recognition of professional and academic qualifications can facilitate the movement of labour and the proper integration of european workers. access to education and the promotion of lifelong learning, including through appropriate vocational retraining programmes, can effectively contribute to tackling the economic crisis, inequalities and unemployment and, in the long term, to ensuring a positive momentum for social inclusion and economic growth.
in writing. ‒ european films are economic and cultural assets, making a substantial contribution to the union's economic growth and job creation. the european film fund allocates €2.1 billion annually to support the european audiovisual industry. of this amount, eur 110 million is from the media sub-programme of the creative europe programme. in 2012, some 1 300 films were produced in the eu, compared with over 800 in the us, but only 8% of european films are distributed in cinemas in non-eu countries. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation of the union's policy on the environment, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation of the union's policy on the environment. in this respect, i welcome this report on european cinema in the digital age, because i believe that the european film forum will open the way for representatives of cinema, member states and european institutions to find appropriate solutions leading to a better distribution of european films.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report comes in response to the commission communication on ʽeuropean film in the digital era, bridging cultural diversity and competitivenessʼ. europe’s film industry is diverse and creative, and has a great potential as its film heritage is successful and inspirational worldwide. however, the digital revolution offers new possibilities, as well as posing new challenges. it is therefore essential to adapt to the digital era and use its potential to reach new and wider audiences. the potential of the cultural and creative sectors in europe and in particular of the european film industry is yet to be fully exploited in the promotion of european cultural and linguistic diversity and heritage within and outside europe, as well as the creation of growth and jobs that can also benefit other sectors of the economy, providing europe with a competitive advantage at a global level.
in writing. ‒ promoting european cultures across borders, but also facilitating cultural exchanges, is done through film. the film, an economic and cultural asset, also makes a substantial contribution to the development of the european economy. i voted for this report because, through its text and the amendments tabled, it 'encourages the european film industry to pursue the creation of innovative services, new distribution channels', thus encouraging film distributors to ensure greater visibility and availability of films from all european countries in order to give the widest possible access to them and to the implicit knowledge of the culture and civilization of the european peoples.
in writing. cinematography, part of european culture and civilization, is supported by the eu. the eu allocates €2.1 billion of eu funds to cinema each year to support the european audiovisual industry. in this context, i voted in favour of the report on european cinema in the digital age. welcomes the adoption of the report by mr bogdan wenta, and agrees with his view that, in order to fully exploit its cultural and economic potential, the european film industry must develop in an appropriate environment, stimulated by a stable and adaptable legal framework, which encourages investment and diversity and allows the development of new online services.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the new eu strategy on forests and the forestry sector because i believe that forests and forestry are a good solution for an additional economic pillar and are also the best guarantors of quality of life, sustainability, jobs and value creation. with over 3.5 million jobs, the forestry sector is the third largest employer in europe, just behind the metal and food industries. over 451 820 forestry enterprises contribute 7% to economic growth and use only 60% of the timber that can be used annually. wood is an important resource with a major economic role for rural areas. the eu strategy aims to further strengthen the social, economic and ecological role of forests and the forestry sector and to put wood at the forefront as a sustainable raw material, considered an important resource for europe.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the eu forest strategy must focus on sustainable management of forests and their multifunctional role from an economic, social and economic perspective and must ensure better coordination and communication of european policies that directly or indirectly target forestry.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the very positive aspects that have been introduced in the report and especially the more holistic approach from the committee on agriculture and rural development on the subject, with more stress on long-term sustainability, resource-efficient use, a multifunctional approach in forest management and future challenges because of wood scarcity and threats from climate change, emphasis on the pan-european forest agreement and an action plan with specific measures and funding. i believe it is important, when dealing with such multidimensional issues, to ensure that we are dealing with them in the most comprehensive way. i appreciate therefore the introduction of very important issues such as employment in the sector and the sustainable use of forest resources. i believe that this report goes in the right direction, by ensuring that people in europe understand better the importance of their forests and will be able to benefit from them in many ways.
in writing. ‒ the forestry sector provides jobs for 3 million european citizens. the report sets out a series of measures that complement the commission's efforts to boost employment and wealth in the european forestry sector in a sustainable way. i voted for this report because the amendments tabled underline the need for 'a specific long-term action plan highlighting the importance of mobilising and using wood sustainably to create added value and jobs in this sector'.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text as it is a much-needed first step towards a more cohesive approach between eu member states to the preservation, development and sustainable use of their forestry resources. my country, romania, is the country with the richest forests in the eu and i believe they represent a huge economic potential, in terms of sustainable tourism and recreation, of high-quality timber production. more should be done to not only protect but increase europe’s forest, and we must remember that this resource can have a direct impact on other fields as well, including co2 emissions on a continent-wide basis.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the kostinger report on the eu forestry strategy. forests play an important role, both economically and in protecting the environment, by absorbing carbon dioxide. therefore, member states should be encouraged to manage forests sustainably. rural development funds can be used for this and i hope that government and local authorities will show more responsibility when it comes to forest exploitation. i believe that the implementation of the new forestry strategy should compensate for the lack of specific provisions on forestry policy in the eu treaty. it should also ensure coordinated positions between eu and member states' policies on forest-related issues at international level.
in writing. i voted for the report on 'a new eu strategy for forests and the forestry sector'. i welcome the initiative of my colleague elisabeth köstinger to produce a report recommending that the commission strengthen the standing committee on forests, which, in her view, could prevent parallel and divergent approaches at european level to this sector. i believe that the new eu forest strategy must focus on better coordination so that forestry and forests are better positioned in european strategies and enjoy a more coherent approach. i believe that our country has a direct interest in promoting a coherent strategy in this area at european level.
mr president, i support the report on the adoption of the european agenda on security. in fact i think that this agenda – and i am addressing the first vice-president of the commission, mr timmermans – should be more ambitious. i do not understand why we, the european union countries, do not set up a counter-terrorism agency, a european union agency to fight terrorism. we know that member states are currently sharing only a maximum of 50% of the information relating to terrorism. can we afford to continue in this way? can we afford to have more terrorist attacks in europe? it is probably time that we set up together a real counter-terrorism european agency to fight terrorism. we can see that this threat is spreading in europe and we are going to face tremendous situations in the future if we do not increase cooperation to fight terrorism.
the reporter. madam president, we have discussed terrorism in the previous hour and we are all against terrorism. i mean, terrorism is financed by fraud, by organized crime, by corruption and, yes, terrorism is also financed by fraud with european funds. we're talking in the european union about the fraud of our citizens' money of 3 to 5 billion euros a year. it's a huge amount, just in numbers on paper. it's probably much bigger in reality. they steal money for jobs, for youth, for research, for innovation. they're stealing our money. they steal from our lives. poverty is increasing. all this is the consequence of the fact that today, unfortunately, at the level of the european union, we do not have an effective mechanism to combat fraud with european money. the investigation of fraud with european money is now carried out by each member state, not at union level. some member states do it effectively for fraud with funds allocated to their country, but other member states do it not at all or do it very little effectively - very badly, to put it bluntly. this differentiation between the way fraud with european funds is investigated in the member states makes it absolutely necessary to have a single office at european level to investigate fraud with european funds. that is why the european public prosecutor's office is needed. the result will be that fraud with european funds will be investigated faster, better, faster and to a much greater extent, and the recovery of money will obviously mean much more. a lot more money will be put back into the pockets of our citizens. let us not forget that we, all of us here and in the european institutions, are the custodians of our citizens' money. that is what i want the european prosecutor to be. by investigating from start to finish and bringing to justice those who are found guilty or suspected of having stolen european money, the european public prosecutor can guard public money, european money. we need the european public prosecutor's office, which is made up of independent people, of prosecutors specialised in the fight against fraud. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. let's make a comparison and see that the only answer is a european anti-fraud office. if we are fighting an organised group of people who are defrauding european funds and they are doing it from several member states, how can we respond other than through a group of prosecutors from all member states, working together, efficiently, flexibly, quickly and annihilating these groups of fraud against european funds. the report shall provide for investigative means. an investigation will always be carried out in any member state, with the authorisation and in accordance with the law of that country and, of course, with respect for the individual rights of suspects.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on legal affairs. madam president, first of all i am pleased that this report on the creation of the european public prosecutor's office is to be adopted and i am pleased that i was able to be the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on legal affairs of the european parliament. i would like to thank my colleagues in the committee for the fact that together we have managed to adopt this report in record time and have thus demonstrated the support of the committee on legal affairs for the creation of this body, which is to fight crime at european level. i note with sadness that three of our ideas were not taken up in the final report. the first concerns the independence of the european prosecutor from political parties and the absence of any link between those appointed to hold these posts and national or european political formations. the second concerns the explicit integration of legal principles such as fairness, justice or the guarantee of equality and freedom of the individual. the third idea is to enhance the role of the european prosecutor in combating and preventing cross-border crime. however, i will vote for this report because i believe that the european public prosecutor's office will help to make the fight against corruption at european level more effective.
the question is "blue cardboard". madam president, i heard what you said, but i must say that in romania and bulgaria, for example, we have set up the cooperation and verification mechanism, and that has helped us to strengthen our justice system. justice has no political colour, just as it has no nationality. do you think that the european judiciary cannot handle things properly? do you think justice has a nationality? i don't think he is! what is your opinion on this subject? do you think that there will be no proper justice at european level?
member of the commission.– madam president, honourable members, thank you for your discussion, for all the opinions, and of course my special thanks to those who expressed support for the proposal to establish the european prosecutor’s office (eppo). i would like to assure you that the fight against corruption and fraud is the highest political priority of the commission and of myself. i am truly convinced that we need an independent eppo which will bring harmonised procedures and ensure the fair investigation of criminal offences infringing the financial interests of the eu; i believe it will bring tangible results. i am convinced that the taxpayers of the eu deserve to have such an institution which will safeguard their money. taking a very conservative estimate, i would say that some eur 1 to 2 billion a year could be secured and brought back to european treasuries and the european budget, or be refunded to the member states, by which i mean used in honest projects in the context of eu structural funds. when we are speaking about such a large amount of money to be secured versus the costs of the european prosecutor’s office, i think we can say there is a good cost-benefit balance in this case. we need the eppo as a specialised institution functioning alongside olaf and eurojust, and mr voss was right when he spoke about the need for a very precise description and plan of the procedures and the cooperation between the eppo, eurojust and olaf because this must operate in a very efficient way. there is still a lot of work to do. we must secure a clear division of competences at the central and national levels, and ensure the transparent selection of people for the positions. we have already introduced the conditions and criteria of integrity, independence and professionalism of the people to be selected. those of you who said that the procedural rights of the criminal procedure of the member states must not be sacrificed, are right. they must also be secured in the eppo procedure. a last comment regarding the yellow cards which the eppo received from several member state parliaments. i do not consider the question of these yellow cards to have been concluded, so i have been addressing all these parliaments, in some cases making a personal visit. i have tried to explain how we can go forward with the proposal, that there are safeguards to ensure that the principle of subsidiarity is not infringed, that a decentralised structure is foreseen and that the jurisdiction of the national courts will be maintained… among many other things. i must say that i have had some quite positive reactions from the members of the national parliaments and i hope that through this enhanced communication we will be able to conclude that there is in fact no breach of subsidiarity. i thank you once again and i would ask you to vote in favour of the eppo in tomorrow’s vote.
the reporter. madam president, that was a very interesting discussion. i'll try to answer some of the questions that have been raised. firstly, i ask rhetorically, because i already have this information, those in the member states or in certain political groups who oppose the european public prosecutor's office: what sums have they recovered through their own investigations in their countries from fraud with european funds? have they recovered much? have they recovered a bit? maybe they really don't want anyone to interfere, they don't want anyone to see if they did a good job or not. this is related to the second thing i want to say, and it's very important: european money, the money of our citizens, is in a common basket. as long as they're together in one basket, they must be protected by all of us. if in one country things are going very well and investigations are being completed and in other countries they are not, you should know that citizens of the countries where things are going well are also being stolen. i would like to give this answer mainly to my colleagues in the netherlands who have invoked this, namely that they do well in their investigations at home. i'm sure you do! except in other countries they don't, and the money is in this common basket. and then a third point: the independence of the prosecutors from politics. i think it was just a speech by mr negrescu to show that he cares about this independence, while at home, now in romania, on the contrary, they vote the opposite in parliament. i want to put it this way: the independence of the european prosecutors, both those in the member states and those in the central office, is clearly ensured from the outset in this report on the european public prosecutor's office. very briefly: four yes, we want to include vat offences and also fraud with european funds in the candidate countries and other countries to which we give money. we must be ambitious to reduce fraud with european funds.
madam president, this regulation aims to achieve two major objectives: firstly, to provide greater protection for investors in mutual funds, which operate on the money market by investing in short-term financial assets, and secondly, to strengthen financial stability by addressing an industry of around 1 000 billion euro. i would like to thank the colleagues who worked on this report because, after a long negotiation, they were able to reach compromise amendments that allow these objectives to be achieved. i would particularly stress the amendments limiting the scope of the concept of the constant value of net assets to those relating to their liquidity, as well as to the prevention of the risk of an unexpected flight of investors, the standards on avoiding risky concentration of the investment portfolio and the necessary transparency.
blue-card question.– these money market funds have been identified as acting as shadow banks and are, therefore, susceptible to different risks. in fact, the liquidity and diversification requirements for these money market funds have been strengthened, as have transparency and reporting requirements. however, they are not overseen like normal banks. do you not think that all these funds should be overseen by the national banks – like all the other banks – with the same requirements?
member of the commission.– madam president, it seems to me there is a very clear linkage between the operation of the markets and small businesses, namely: if you can make them work properly, you can get more money in investment flowing to the small businesses that we all want to see growing in europe. it has been a very interesting debate, if short. my admiration for neena gill has been increased through listening to the divergence of views that we have heard here, articulated very clearly and with equal passion. it confirms in my mind the importance of trying to make progress on the compromise that has been agreed so far. it is also a reflection of the broader challenges we face in looking at financial regulation as to how we can best balance growth and risk mitigation. i am confirmed in my support and admiration for the work that neena gill has done. i will certainly underline to the latvian presidency the importance of making progress with this proposal. we have an opportunity now to get some momentum going, and if we do not take it, i fear that we will find it hard to get it back again. as far as the specific question i was asked about a sunset clause is concerned, it is the case, obviously, that the phasing out of cnav funds was not something that the commission included in its original proposal. the most important issue for us – our bottom line, if you like – is that we get a sufficiently robust regime in place to deal with credit and interest rate risks for all money market funds, including cnavs. if we can get the risk management regime right overall, that would deal with the question of the sunset clause. that is something we will be monitoring closely in the council process, and obviously during the trilogue process that will follow. we need to get a deal on money market funds. it would represent a significant step in moving closer to finalising the post-crisis reform agenda. a positive vote in tomorrow’s plenary would itself be a significant step towards securing that final deal.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 29 april 2015. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the joint debate on the 2013 discharge (52 reports)– the report by ingeborg gräßle, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section iii – commission and executive agencies (com(2014)0510 – c8—0140/2014 – 2014/2075(dec)) (a8—0101/2015),– the report by ingeborg gräßle, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the court of auditors’ special reports in the context of the 2013 commission discharge (com(2013)0570 – c8-0224/2014 – 2014/2140(dec)) (a8-0067/2015),– the report by martina dlabajová, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0487 – c8—0146/2014 – 2014/2077(dec)) (a8—0102/2015),– the report by gilles pargneaux, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section i – european parliament (com(2014)0510 – c8—0147/2014 – 2014/2078(dec)) (a8—0082/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section ii – european council and council (com(2014)0510 – c8—0148/2014 – 2014/2079(dec)) (a—0116/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section x – european external action service (com(2014)0510 – c8—0155/2014 – 2014/2086(dec)) (a8—0109/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section iv – court of justice (com(2014)0510 – c8—0149/2014 – 2014/2080(dec)) (a8—0111/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section v – court of auditors (com(2014)0510 – c8-0150/2014 – 2014/2081(dec)) (a8—0113/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section vi – european economic and social committee (com(2014)0510 – c8—0151/2014 – 2014/2082(dec)) (a8—0114/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section vii - committee of the regions (com(2014)0510 – c8—0152/2014 – 2014/2083(dec)) (a8—0105/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section viii – european ombudsman (com(2014)0510 – c8—0153/2014 – 2014/2084(dec)) (a8—0115/2015), – the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section ix – european data protection supervisor (com(2014)0510 – c8—0154/2014 – 2014/2085(dec)) (a8—0118/2015), – the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agencies for the financial year 2013: performance, financial management and control (com(2013)0570 – c8—0225/2014 – 2014/2139(dec)) (a8—0070/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0199/2014 – 2014/2123(dec)) (a8—0117/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0200/2014 – 2014/2124(dec)) (a8—0081/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0177/2014 – 2014/2101(dec)) (a8—0084/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0156/2014 – 2014/2087(dec)) (a8—0079/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european police college for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0188/2014 – 2014/2112(dec)) (a8—0086/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0182/2014 – 2014/2106(dec)) (a8—0074/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european asylum support office for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0202/2014 – 2014/2126(dec)) (a8—0085/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european banking authority for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0196/2014 – 2014/2120(dec)) (a8—0072/2015), – the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0185/2014 – 2014/2109(dec)) (a8—0069/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0192/2014 – 2014/2116(dec)) (a8—0073/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge of the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0175/2014 – 2014/2099(dec)) (a8-0083/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0191/2014 – 2014/2115(dec)) (a8—0100/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european food safety authority for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 -–c8—0184/2014 – 2014/2108(dec)) (a8—0097/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european institute for gender equality for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0195/2014 – 2014/2119(dec)) (a8—0098/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8-0197/2014 – 2014/2121(dec)) (a8—0096/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8-0201/2014 – 2014/2125(dec)) (a8—0077/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0178/2014 – 2014/2102(dec)) (a8—0075/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0159/2014 – 2014/2090(dec)) (a8—0068/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0181/2014 – 2014/2105(dec)) (a8–0088/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for network and information security for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0186/2014 – 2014/2110(dec)) (a8—0089/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european railway agency for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0187/2014 – 2014/2111(dec)) (a8—0078/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european securities and markets authority for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0198/2014 – 2014/2122(dec)) (a8—0087/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european training foundation for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0180/2014 – 2014/2104(dec)) (a8—0090/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the οperational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0204/2014 – 2014/2128(dec)) (a8—0099/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0176/2014 – 2014/2100(dec)) (a8—0076/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0193/2014 – 2014/2117(dec)) (a8—0119/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0157/2014 – 2014/2088(dec)) (a8—0092/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of eurojust for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8-0179/2014 – 2014/2103(dec)) (a8—0091/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european police office for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0194/2014 – 2014/2118(dec)) (a8—0080/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect in the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0158/2014 – 2014/2089(dec)) (a8-0093/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0189/2014 – 2014/2113(dec)) (a8—0094/2015),– the report ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european gnss agency for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0190/2014 – 2014/2114(dec)) (a8—0095/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0208/2014 – 2014/2132(dec)) (a8—0103/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the clean sky joint undertaking for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0207/2014 – 2014/2131(dec)) (a8-0107/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0211/2014 – 2014/2135(dec)) (a8—0104/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8-0210/2014 – 2014/2134(dec)) (a8—0112/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for the implementation of the joint technology initiative on innovative medicines for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0209/2014 – 2014/2133(dec)) (a8—0106/2015),– the report by anders primdahl vistisen, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0205/2014 – 2014/2129(dec)) (a8—0108/2015),– the report by anders primdahl vistisen, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0206/2014 – 2014/2130(dec)) (a8—0110/2015).
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure. you speak very nicely about political parties, as if you are not from a political party. you talk about political groups as if you're not part of a political group. you talk about the money spent by the european institutions as if you don't get your salary from the european parliament. why the criticism? we need to work together so that the european institutions use this money creatively and usefully for citizens. i agree with that! but i don't think we should use populist arguments against democratic principles.
mr president, the epp group supports public-private partnerships. european partnerships have proven to have had remarkable results and have helped to address important requirements of european citizens. the system is a positive one and should be further encouraged. we're discussing today the budget discharges of seven ppe. the court of auditors issued qualified opinions for three of them, imi, eniac and artemis for the third time: 2011, 2012 and 2013. as a result, the committee on budgetary control proposes to postpone the discharge. the epp group supports this delay and calls for the shortcomings identified by the court, in particular those relating to ex-post audits, to be addressed by the autumn of this year. we are also awaiting the commission's reports on the three epps, in view of the unification of artemis with eniac and imi 2. sesar, clean sky and fch received a discharge vote from the committee on budgetary control. information was requested from all epps on the contributions of the partners as well as on the practical results of the work so far. i suggest to the court that a uniform approach be taken to the partners' contributions by mentioning them in all control acts. i hope that the replacement of the iter and f4energy directors will lead to very close collaboration and lead iter towards the achievement of its proposed objectives.
mr president, i thank the rapporteur and the committee for implementing and proposing this project. we are talking about seven million unemployed, we are talking about seven million unemployed young people, we are talking about, basically, seven million destinies that we are deciding today. it's not a small thing! a billion euros for prefinancing projects to combat unemployment is a good measure. it must be supplemented by other measures. i am glad that the european parliament is once again showing that it is moving faster and coming up with solutions to combat unemployment, and coming up with coherent statements and projects. the increase in pre-financing from 1% to 30% is also a positive element. i would like the member states to respond positively to the request of the european parliament and the european commission. in the government of romania and romania i can tell you that there is the necessary support for the implementation of these measures, because romania was, moreover, among the first countries to implement the first pilot projects for the youth guarantee. to make these things a reality, the additional funds must be matched by concrete projects to help young people.
mr president, i wanted to take the floor on this as a member of the committee on budgets. i mean, i'm quite disappointed with this final form of the project, although mr deprez is one of my favourites from the other political groups, because he maintains a number of inequalities and accentuates others. parliament represents the citizens. we fund representation, not bureaucracy! the final report, we have seen, does not take into account the fact that in certain countries the parliament requires meps to be paid a minimum wage. in romania, the maximum salary for local assistants is eur 700, well below the minimum salary in some member states. we limit the number of local assistants even if the constituencies are different. in my case, the constituency is 22 million people. we also remove questions and interpellations as if this mechanism did not exist in all parliaments. i want to tell you that i want my question to be public! perhaps not in all languages, to cut costs, but i would like to see what they are doing in the european parliament, and the declarations, and the other mechanisms that i have at my disposal. democracy costs money. we must not reduce democracy!
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure. i agree with a lot of the things you've said. i think we need to protect those who draw attention to those who evade. my question is: what do you think about people who have evaded and basically point fingers at others who have? you mean we have to protect them, too?
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure. i must say, mr. kamall, that i was surprised by your position, although you started by saying that you have a different life because your family emigrated to england. i want to ask you directly: you said that not everyone, that they can be returned. who determines the right to life of some and the lack of living conditions of others? who to select that yes, has the right man to live no matter on which corner of the world is and who makes this sorting? how do you see this? it seems to me absolutely absurd to say that we give some of it back, we don't give some of it back, and somebody, bureaucratically, decides whether it meets the conditions or it doesn't meet the conditions.
madam president, in this house and in our institutions we have expressed our sorrow too often for stories that keep happening again and again and again without concrete solutions being adopted. we cannot wait until the next tragedy happens; we must act now and act in a concrete manner. i am happy that an extraordinary council meeting was called as well as a foreign affairs and home affairs council, but i am less happy with the outcome. between the outcome of the council and the position of the president of the european commission, jean-claude juncker, i welcome without hesitation the position of president juncker and this is the european way to act. it is time for europe to deserve its nobel prize and to act with a fully strategic and common vision and understanding of the complexity of the problem. firstly, triton must be widened and it has to meet at least the features of the italian mare nostrum operation. secondly, responsibility towards refugees and asylum seekers should be shared among all member states. thirdly, europe in the short term should make sure that mediterranean crossings organised by unscrupulous human smugglers are stopped and that the criminals are brought to justice. but it is obvious that the real problem lies in the crises these people are escaping from: ranging from the conflict in syria, the division in the failing state of libya and the poverty and conflicts in the sahel region.
mr president, the recent drowning of more than 1 000 people in the mediterranean sea sadly highlights yet again europe’s inability to cope with the unprecedented humanitarian crisis in the world. refugees fleeing war or persecution are drowning as europe allocates fewer resources to life-saving missions. letting more people die at sea does not deter others from attempting sea crossings. as a community of values, europe should do more: not just in terms of rescue at sea but also in prevention. one possible way to achieve the latter is to process asylum requests abroad. however, in the long term we need a stronger engagement with countries of origin and a better-targeted development policy addressing the push factors of terrorist conflicts, poverty, systemic corruption and misrule.
in writing.– it is clear that if we do not act now we will bear the responsability before future generations for these inhumane tragedies. we can no longer afford not to tackle this issue seriously: we must implement an effective strategy to save the lives of these people. right now, only those who have money and are strong enough to escape from wars and poverty have a chance to safely reach, illegally, the shores of europe. the weak, the poor, the families with children are left behind in harm’s way. and this is primarily due to our barriers that prevent asylum seekers and refugees from saving their lives in a better world. we must take urgent action to confront these crises and conflicts.
in writing. the tragedies caused by illegal immigration are a reality that the european union is unfortunately facing more and more often and therefore urgently needs to find solutions at community level. the eu needs to use frontex much more effectively. the tripling of the budget for frontex is a positive aspect, but the mandate of frontex must be extended. joint maritime operations poseidon, triton are actions that need to be strengthened and their role needs to be clearly defined in the future agenda on migration. the eu can build a viable european asylum policy by making appropriate use of article 88 tfeu so that the provisions of the dublin convention are functional in all member states. the commission should develop a migration management strategy in its agenda for the next 5 years and respond to the humanitarian crisis triggered by illegal immigration through viable legal and economic immigration policies. europe needs better long-term governance of the development fund, coupled with a consistent european foreign policy. the eu must act at the source: working with the authorities of migrants' countries of origin so that smuggling networks are broken up. saving human lives means stopping ships from leaving the coast.
in writing. humanitarian tragedies in the mediterranean have been at the top of the european political agenda in a dismal succession. the eu is currently overwhelmed by the massive influx of migrants from the coasts of libya and syria. that is why i believe that the common response of the member states must focus on the causes of the refugee flows. first, the rapid and bloody expansion of the islamic state in iraq and syria, and the intensification of instability and conflict in north africa. i do not think that the prospect of a european asylum system and a solidarity mechanism between member states solving the problems of the many asylum seekers is realistic. in this respect, i would like to point out that i do not agree with the european parliament's resolution calling on the european commission to establish a mandatory quota for the distribution of asylum seekers in all member states. by dealing only with the effects, we risk being overwhelmed by the magnitude of the causes. i therefore call for a focus on defining and implementing strategies against the chronic violence and underdevelopment in the countries of origin of migrants. the eu should also step up action against illegal immigration, which is partly controlled by criminal networks of trafficking in human beings, including terrorist groups.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the presentation by the commission of the consolidated annual accounts of the european union for the financial year 2013, as part of the 2013 discharge procedure. the consolidated annual accounts of the european union for the financial year 2013 have been prepared on the basis of the information provided by the institutions and bodies pursuant to article 148 (2) of the financial regulation applicable to the general budget of the european union, and in accordance with title ix of the financial regulation. the document provides insights into the eu budget mechanism and how the budget was managed in 2013. to this end, it recalls the eu's operational expenditure, covers various headings of the financial framework and takes different forms depending on how the money is paid and managed.
in writing. ‒ whereas the 2013 commission represents the end of a multiannual programming period for which the new commission cannot be held responsible for, the parliament can only recommend that the lessons taught particularly within the discharge procedure and the financial and social crisis are to be learnt. 2013 marks a historical point in terms of impact and change of political and economic challenges, obliging us all to review our priorities and the results achieved. i welcome the progress made and i call the commission as well as the other institutions for a performance orientation, transparency and good governance in europe.
in writing. ‒ the report presented by the european court of auditors regarding the discharge of the european commission's budget for the year 2013 detected an error rate of 4,7%, as compared to 4.8% in 2012. even though the financial year 2013 has been marked by a very high execution rate of the budget, the 4,7% error rate is still too high compared to the recommended threshold of 2%. i would therefore like to stress that from my point of view this proves a lack of commitment to sound financial management. the commission has to solve the problem of the status of the international management group, which received financing of millions of euros from the commission without recourse to any public tendering. in addition, the commission has to set up measures for improving the management of funds in member states, because in 50 cases of structural funds we do not know which budget line applies to which region. i stress the need of a high level of transparency in the commission as a sine-qua-non condition to mitigate risks of conflict of interest.
in writing. ‒ the annual budget of the european union is €145 billion (based on 2015 figures). this amounts to only 1% of the revenues generated annually by the eu economies, although it is a significant amount. each annual budget is part of a seven-year budget cycle known as the 'financial perspective'. the financial perspective is drawn up by the european commission and requires the unanimous approval of the member states and negotiations to be followed by the agreement of the european parliament. after the budget for the following financial year has been established, discharge shall be given for the budget for the following year in respect of the correct use of the funds as provided for by each institution, body or department. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section iii commission and executive agencies, given the great importance of informing eu citizens about the use of the eu budget, to which they also contribute by default.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1304/2013 of the european parliament and of the council on the european social fund, as regards an increase in the amount of initial pre-financing granted to operational programmes supporting the youth employment initiative (yei). the yei targets regions where the youth unemployment rate exceeds 25%, thus supporting exclusively young people who are neither in employment nor enrolled in an education or training programme. unfortunately, this initiative was not able to achieve its objective at maximum quotas because it was not used by the member states, one reason being the lack of sufficient pre-financing to initiate the necessary measures. in this respect, i would like to welcome the commission's initiative to release eur 1 billion to ensure the required level of pre-financing. the fight against unemployment and the promotion of youth employment are essential and must be supported all the more as young people represent the future of our society.
in writing. ‒ given the discouraging labour market outlook for young people, i believe that the youth employment initiative is one of the tools through which the objectives of the youth guarantee can be achieved in the areas of europe most affected by youth unemployment.
in writing. ‒ i back the commission proposal to boost the financing of the youth employment initiative. every young person gets a job, an apprenticeship, traineeship or professional training within four months of becoming unemployed. we call on the member states to accelerate their efforts regarding the implementation of the yei. we expect the commission to stick to its promise regarding the immediate transfer of the additional pre-financing to the member states.
in writing. ‒ youth unemployment has been alarmingly high and has not diminished significantly recently. the european union wants to help member states deal with this major problem, which is affecting so many young people. the commission proposal, which would encourage member states to use the additional funds as soon as possible to finance projects in this area, is welcome. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the youth employment initiative because this report will make a major contribution to meeting the objectives of the youth guarantee in the areas of europe most affected by youth unemployment. the implementation of the youth strategy is a concrete project in all member states, which will improve reforms in education and vocational training and make possible the transition from school to work. this instrument will be used in regions facing an unemployment rate of 25% among young people up to 25 years. the eu has delivered on its promise to young people and has unlocked €1 billion to enable member states to launch the projects they need. it is not about new funds, but about an increase in the prefinancing rate from 1% to 30%. member states will be supported in supplementing the necessary funds allocated to projects that offer young people either a job, a traineeship or vocational training. it remains for the member states to implement this programme urgently to bring young people into the labour market as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ due to the high level of youth unemployment in the european union, the youth employment initiative was created to provide support to young people who are out of work, education or training in the regions most affected by the crisis. however, the mechanisms made available to member states and potential beneficiaries have identified the problem of implementing operational programmes in the absence of more substantial initial pre-financing. i voted in favour of this proposal, which provides for an increase in the initial pre-financing from 1-1.5% to 30% of the total project cost.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on increasing the amount of initial pre-financing for youth employment programmes, as youth unemployment has reached dramatic levels in recent years. this is a critical situation in which many member states, including romania, find themselves, and the commission's initiative to release €1 billion for youth programmes is commendable. i also support the rapporteur's position that this sum should be made available as soon as possible, given that the outlook for young people is discouraging.
in writing. i voted for the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament on the european social fund, as regards an increase in the amount of initial pre-financing for operational programmes supported by the youth employment initiative. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's citizens are able to access the internet and to use it to make their own decisions. the unemployment rate among young people has reached a dramatic level in recent years and is continuing to rise. the eu has developed several programmes to help member states combat this scourge, and the release of this amount should help to speed up their implementation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which provides for the repeal of eec regulation no 3030/93 in the light of the changes which have taken place over time. this regulation concerns the common arrangements applicable to imports of textile products originating in third countries with which the european community has concluded bilateral agreements, signed protocols or other arrangements. since the only third countries with which the eu has maintained bilateral agreements on imports of certain textile products, namely russia and serbia, are now covered by other agreements, namely russia has acceded to the world trade organisation and the stabilisation and association agreement between serbia and the eu has been concluded, eec regulation no 3030/93 has lost its main purpose. at the same time, this regulation was also used to apply quantitative limits for certain textile products originating in china and later to implement the transitional safeguard mechanism applicable to certain chinese products, which expired on 11 december 2013. in view of these aspects and in order to promote legal certainty, i support the need to repeal council regulation (eec) no 3030/93.
in writing. ‒ on 10 and 11 december 2014, the european economic and social committee delivered a favourable opinion on the text proposed by the european council on the 'proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on common rules for imports of textile products from certain third countries not covered by bilateral agreements, protocols or other arrangements, or by other specific union import arrangements (recast) com ((2014) 345 final 2014/0177 (cod) ' given that title i of regulation (ec) no 427/20034, and with it the possibility of imposing safeguard measures, expired on 11 december 2013, i voted for this resolution in order to address this legal and procedural vacuum.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the kingdom of norway. the adoption of a safeguard measure shall be based on multilaterally agreed rules, taking into account the application of those rules to bilateral relations as they result from internal regulations or specific preferential agreements negotiated to regulate those relations. the adoption of general rules on a bilateral or regional basis shall have particular regard to the procedure to be followed in the event of recourse to safeguard measures. therefore, these safeguard measures are intended to slow down imports in order to remedy and prevent a situation of injury to the eu producers, which is also the case with imports from norway.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal as it fully preserves the content of the act being codified.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the kingdom of norway, given the importance of the document for this partnership. i also stress the importance of adopting the text of the european commission's proposal, as adapted, following the recommendations of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on certain procedures for implementing the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of albania, of the other part. i support the importance of the process of economic and political regeneration of the western balkan states, so that they can become members of the european union. stabilisation and association agreements, trade preferences and technical and financial assistance are the three main pillars through which the eu hopes to bring stability to the region. following the signature of the stabilisation agreement and subsequent entry into force of the agreement, albania has made significant progress, leading to the council's decision in june 2014 to consider albania as a candidate country for eu accession.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal as it fully preserves the content of the act being codified.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on certain procedures for implementing the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of albania, of the other part, bearing in mind the importance of this document for both the eu and the member states and for the republic of albania. i also stress the importance of adopting the text of the european commission's proposal, as adapted following the recommendations of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it supports, without amendments, the commission's proposal to bring codification amendments to the procedures for implementing the eu-albania stabilisation and association agreement. in the previous mandate, i had the opportunity and pleasure to follow albania's development closely and i believe that this state must continue to be supported and encouraged by the eu with the means at our disposal. i voted in favour of this report because it does not change the substance of the original agreement but adapts the codification of the procedures for implementing it to the new realities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the application of the stabilisation and association agreement and the interim agreement on trade and trade-related matters between the ec and bosnia and herzegovina. the recent decision to sign the association agreement with bosnia and herzegovina is a real step forward for that country. both bosnia and herzegovina and the other western balkan countries are exempted from customs duties on all industrial products, all processed agricultural products, agricultural products except beef, fishery products and wines when imported into the eu market under the stabilisation and association agreement (saa). in june 2008, the council concluded an interim agreement on trade and trade-related matters between the european community and bosnia and herzegovina, which provides for the early entry into force of the trade and trade-related provisions of the saa. the implementation of these agreements is important in supporting bosnia and herzegovina's eu accession. however, the progress made by bosnia and herzegovina must also be accompanied by overcoming the precarious economic situation and strong political and ethnic divisions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal as it fully preserves the content of the act being codified.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and bosnia and herzegovina, of the other part, and for applying the interim agreement on trade and trade-related matters between the european community, of the one part, and bosnia and herzegovina, of the other part, in view of the importance of the political and economic partnerships that the european union has established with neighbouring countries, as well as with other third countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it supports, without amendments, the commission's proposal to bring codification amendments to the procedures for implementing the stabilisation and association agreement between the eu and bosnia and herzegovina. i worked in the previous mandate on the bosnia and herzegovina files and i believe that this partnership should be continued and supported. i welcome the fact that this report does not make any changes to the original agreement, but that it is a different codification of the implementation procedures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on certain procedures for implementing the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, of the other part, as this country is the most advanced in terms of alignment with the acquis among the balkan countries that have applied to join the eu. this agreement provides for economic and political cooperation and the establishment of free trade areas with the republic of macedonia and permanent cooperation structures based on common democratic principles, human rights and the rule of law. the effects of the agreement were felt in that 80% of the total foreign direct investment stock came from eu enterprises and trade flows of goods and services with the eu continued to increase. in the nine years since the republic of macedonia became a candidate country for the european union, important progress has been made and the delay in the eu accession process may represent an obstacle to deeper economic integration.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the proposal as it is a straightforward codification of existing texts, without any change in their substance.
in writing. ‒ the european union has always placed a strong emphasis on cooperative and good neighbourly relations with all its neighbours. i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on certain procedures for implementing the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, of the other part, because it highlights once again the importance of this cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it supports, without amendments, the commission's proposal to bring codification amendments to the procedures for implementing the stabilisation and association agreement between the eu and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. i worked on the files on this country during the previous mandate and i believe that the partnership should be continued and supported, and the fact that this report does not make substantive changes to the original agreement but codifies the implementation procedures differently has led me to vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the codification of council regulation (ec) no 994/98 of 7 may 1998 on the application of articles 107 and 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union to certain categories of horizontal state aid. the proposal provides for the possibility for the ec to declare, by means of block exemption regulations, that certain categories of aid are compatible with the internal market in accordance with article 107 tfeu and are not subject to the notification requirement of article 108 tfeu. these categories include aid to small and medium-sized enterprises, aid for research, development and innovation, environmental protection, infrastructure, employment and training, sport, and aid which complies with the regional aid map approved by the commission for each member state.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal as it fully preserves the content of the act being codified.
in writing. ‒ the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), as amended by the treaty of lisbon, entered into force on 1 december 2009 with the entry into force of the amending treaty. i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a council regulation on the application of articles 107 and 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union to certain categories of horizontal state aid, given the importance of regulating this mechanism and of strictly complying with both primary and secondary legislation of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the codification of regulation (ec) no 659/1999 laying down detailed rules for the application of article 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the proposal aims to lay down procedural rules on the application of the state aid rules. in accordance with article 108 (3) tfeu, any new aid scheme must be notified to the commission and should not be put into effect before it has been authorised by the commission. the procedure for notified aid provides that any plans to grant new aid are to be notified to the commission in good time by the member state concerned. the commission shall inform the member state concerned without delay of the receipt of a notification. in a notification, the member state concerned must provide all the information necessary to enable the commission to take a decision.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal as it fully preserves the content of the act being codified.
in writing. ‒ the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) organises the functioning of the union and lays down the areas, limits and conditions for the exercise of its powers. i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a council regulation laying down detailed rules for the application of article 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, because i consider that strict compliance with the texts of the treaties on which the european union is founded and which govern its functioning is of the utmost importance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the court of auditors' special reports in the context of the commission's discharge for the financial year 2013. the discharge procedure aims to increase performance by achieving the best possible outcome with union taxpayers' money and to encourage the commission to make more efforts to improve the feedback stage in the evaluation cycle so that lessons learned from the past and recommendations from evaluations contribute as much as possible to the decision-making process, programming and implementation of future eu aid. the court of auditors also notes that budget support remained an important form of aid for the implementation of the union's development policy in 2013, accounting for 27,3% of total commitments. i believe that the court of auditors' reports provide clear and well-founded guidance for the commission, which can lead to improved strategy in the future.
in writing. ‒ the special reports of the court of auditors give in-depth analysis of the delivery of specific funding programme areas and provide considerable detail on the administration of particular policy areas. this complements the horizontal approach of the annual report of the court on the implementation of the eu budget which forms the basis for parliament´s work on discharge for the various institutions. i therefore voted in favour of the adoption of the report in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ the annual budget of the european union is €145 billion (based on 2015 figures). this amounts to only 1% of the revenues generated annually by the eu economies, although it is a significant amount. each annual budget is part of a seven-year budget cycle known as the 'financial perspective'. the financial perspective is drawn up by the european commission and requires the unanimous approval of the member states and negotiations to be followed by the agreement of the european parliament. after the budget for the following financial year has been established, discharge shall be given for the budget for the following year in respect of the correct use of the funds as provided for by each institution, body or department. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the court of auditors' special reports in the context of the commission's discharge for the financial year 2013, given the major importance of informing eu citizens about the use of the eu budget, to which they also contribute by default.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report for the general budget of the eu - the 8th, 9th and 10th edfs. the document shall include a note to the accounts in which the accounting officer responsible for auditing the edf certifies that these accounts present a true and fair view of the financial position of the european development funds in all material respects. the edf is the main instrument for providing union aid for development cooperation in the african, pacific (acp) and overseas countries and territories (octs) and the caribbean. the 1957 treaty of rome provided for its creation to provide technical and financial assistance, initially only to african countries, which at that time were still colonized and with which some member states had historical links. the report shall transparently present how these resources were used during the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the european development fund is the main eu aid instrument for development cooperation in africa, the caribbean, and pacific countries and the overseas countries and territories aiming at reducing and eventually eradicating poverty - one of the core political priorities shared by the s&d group. we managed to underline the need for including the edf in the general eu budget in order to improve policy coherence and better democratic scrutiny. we also focussed on the need for stronger anti-corruption mechanisms in order to assure better effectiveness of budget support programs. i support the commission's budgetary support approach which places stronger emphasis on accountability and transparency, and i therefore encourage the com to apply systematic risk analysis and risk mitigation strategy in the management of budget support operations. considering the fact that discharge was granted, i supported the adoption of the report in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ the annual budget of the european union is €145 billion (based on 2015 figures). this amounts to only 1% of the revenues generated annually by the eu economies, although it is a significant amount. each annual budget is part of a seven-year budget cycle known as the 'financial perspective'. the financial perspective is drawn up by the european commission and requires the unanimous approval of the member states and negotiations to be followed by the agreement of the european parliament. after the budget for the following financial year has been established, discharge shall be given for the budget for the following year in respect of the correct use of the funds as provided for by each institution, body or department. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds for the financial year 2013, given the great importance of informing eu citizens about the use of the eu budget, to which they also contribute by default.
in writing. – the lux prize is a very important initiative, it shows the ep's commitment to supporting the european cinema and the european film industry in general. it helps our stories to travel across linguistic frontiers and show our rich cultural potential. under no circumstances the ep should remove this support.
in writing. ‒ i supported the adoption of the report as i believe that our rapporteur drafted a balanced report, recognizing the achievements and pointing out to weaknesses of the ep administration. he kept the report strictly within the scope of the cont competence examining how the parliament managed its own budget.
in writing. ‒ the annual budget of the european union is €145 billion (based on 2015 figures). this amounts to only 1% of the revenues generated annually by the eu economies, although it is a significant amount. each annual budget is part of a seven-year budget cycle known as the 'financial perspective'. the financial perspective is drawn up by the european commission and requires the unanimous approval of the member states and negotiations to be followed by the agreement of the european parliament. after the budget for the following financial year has been established, discharge shall be given for the budget for the following year in respect of the correct use of the funds as provided for by each institution, body or department. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section i european parliament, in view of the great importance of informing eu citizens about the use of the eu budget, to which they also contribute by default.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today because it finds, on the basis of the audit findings and according to the court of auditors, that the european parliament's budget has been managed in accordance with the objectives set and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management. i appreciate the thorough work done by my colleagues in the committee on budgetary control and in this regard i considered that the discharge for 2013 should be given.
in writing. ‒ i supported the grant of the discharge for european external action service, court of auditors, court of justice, economic and social committee, committee of the regions, european ombudsman and the european data protection supervisor.
in writing. ‒ i fully endorse the proposal of the parliament to postpone the discharge of the council and of the european council for the year 2013. this plenary session was the 5th consecutive session when the european parliament declined to approve the discharge of the budget for these two institutions due to their persistent failure to supply the necessary information about the discharge procedure and their failure to answer parliament's questions. the gentleman’s agreement concluded back in 1970 invoked by the council in support of its actions, is a pathetic argument that proves lack of transparency and accountability towards citizens’ money. even though on the basis of primary legislation - article 319 tfeu- the parliament is vested to only grant discharge to the european commission, according to article 165 of the financial regulation no.966/2012 of the european parliament and of the council of 25.10.2012, the discharge decision of the parliament shall cover the accounts of all the union's revenue and expenditure, including therefore council's expenditure. moreover, council’s refusal to provide information on how its budget has been spent raises by itself question marks on the use of our citizens’ money.
in writing. ‒ the annual budget of the european union is €145 billion (based on 2015 figures). this amounts to only 1% of the revenues generated annually by the eu economies, although it is a significant amount. each annual budget is part of a seven-year budget cycle known as the 'financial perspective'. the financial perspective is drawn up by the european commission and requires the unanimous approval of the member states and negotiations to be followed by the agreement of the european parliament. after the budget for the following financial year has been established, discharge shall be given for the budget for the following year in respect of the correct use of the funds as provided for by each institution, body or department. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section ii european council and council, given the great importance of informing eu citizens about the use of the eu budget, to which they also contribute by default.
in writing. ‒ i supported the grant of the discharge to the european external action service in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the annual budget of the european union is €145 billion (based on 2015 figures). this amounts to only 1% of the revenues generated annually by the eu economies, although it is a significant amount. each annual budget is part of a seven-year budget cycle known as the 'financial perspective'. the financial perspective is drawn up by the european commission and requires the unanimous approval of the member states and negotiations to be followed by the agreement of the european parliament. after the budget for the following financial year has been established, discharge shall be given for the budget for the following year in respect of the correct use of the funds as provided for by each institution, body or department. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section x european external action service, given the great importance of informing eu citizens about the use of the eu budget, to which they also contribute by default.
in writing. ‒ i supported the grant of the discharge to the court of justice in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the annual budget of the european union is €145 billion (based on 2015 figures). this amounts to only 1% of the revenues generated annually by the eu economies, although it is a significant amount. each annual budget is part of a seven-year budget cycle known as the 'financial perspective'. the financial perspective is drawn up by the european commission and requires the unanimous approval of the member states and negotiations to be followed by the agreement of the european parliament. after the budget for the following financial year has been established, discharge shall be given for the budget for the following year in respect of the correct use of the funds as provided for by each institution, body or department. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section iv court of justice, given the great importance of informing eu citizens about the use of the eu budget, to which they also contribute by default.
in writing. ‒ i supported the grant of the discharge to the court of auditors in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the annual budget of the european union is €145 billion (based on 2015 figures). this amounts to only 1% of the revenues generated annually by the eu economies, although it is a significant amount. each annual budget is part of a seven-year budget cycle known as the 'financial perspective'. the financial perspective is drawn up by the european commission and requires the unanimous approval of the member states and negotiations to be followed by the agreement of the european parliament. after the budget for the following financial year has been established, discharge shall be given for the budget for the following year in respect of the correct use of the funds as provided for by each institution, body or department. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section v court of auditors, given the great importance of informing eu citizens about the use of the eu budget, to which they also contribute by default.
in writing. ‒ i supported the grant of the discharge to the economic and social committee in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the annual budget of the european union is €145 billion (based on 2015 figures). this amounts to only 1% of the revenues generated annually by the eu economies, although it is a significant amount. each annual budget is part of a seven-year budget cycle known as the 'financial perspective'. the financial perspective is drawn up by the european commission and requires the unanimous approval of the member states and negotiations to be followed by the agreement of the european parliament. after the budget for the following financial year has been established, discharge shall be given for the budget for the following year in respect of the correct use of the funds as provided for by each institution, body or department. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section vi european economic and social committee, in view of the great importance of informing eu citizens about the use of the eu budget, to which they also contribute by default.
in writing. ‒ i supported the grant of the discharge to the committee of the regions in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the annual budget of the european union is €145 billion (based on 2015 figures). this amounts to only 1% of the revenues generated annually by the eu economies, although it is a significant amount. each annual budget is part of a seven-year budget cycle known as the 'financial perspective'. the financial perspective is drawn up by the european commission and requires the unanimous approval of the member states and negotiations to be followed by the agreement of the european parliament. after the budget for the following financial year has been established, discharge shall be given for the budget for the following year in respect of the correct use of the funds as provided for by each institution, body or department. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section vii committee of the regions, given the great importance of informing eu citizens about the use of the eu budget, to which they also contribute by default.
in writing. ‒ i supported the grant of the discharge to the european ombudsman in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the annual budget of the european union is €145 billion (based on 2015 figures). this amounts to only 1% of the revenues generated annually by the eu economies, although it is a significant amount. each annual budget is part of a seven-year budget cycle known as the 'financial perspective'. the financial perspective is drawn up by the european commission and requires the unanimous approval of the member states and negotiations to be followed by the agreement of the european parliament. after the budget for the following financial year has been established, discharge shall be given for the budget for the following year in respect of the correct use of the funds as provided for by each institution, body or department. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section viii european ombudsman, given the great importance of informing eu citizens about the use of the eu budget, to which they also contribute by default.
in writing. ‒ i supported the grant of the discharge to the european data protection supervisor in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the annual budget of the european union is €145 billion (based on 2015 figures). this amounts to only 1% of the revenues generated annually by the eu economies, although it is a significant amount. each annual budget is part of a seven-year budget cycle known as the 'financial perspective'. the financial perspective is drawn up by the european commission and requires the unanimous approval of the member states and negotiations to be followed by the agreement of the european parliament. after the budget for the following financial year has been established, discharge shall be given for the budget for the following year in respect of the correct use of the funds as provided for by each institution, body or department. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section ix - european data protection supervisor, given the major importance of informing eu citizens about the use of the eu budget, to which they also contribute by default.
in writing. ‒ the 32 decentralised agencies of the european union have vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. our group supports the agencies in their many areas of work e.g. to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. i believe the level of scrutiny and the amount of resources and staff time which the agencies have to devote to providing public information must not be disproportionate. new agencies need some time to come up to scratch. i therefore supported the adoption of the report in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ the annual budget of the european union is €145 billion (based on 2015 figures). this amounts to only 1% of the revenues generated annually by the eu economies, although it is a significant amount. each annual budget is part of a seven-year budget cycle known as the 'financial perspective'. the financial perspective is drawn up by the european commission and requires the unanimous approval of the member states and negotiations to be followed by the agreement of the european parliament. after the budget for the following financial year has been established, discharge shall be given for the budget for the following year in respect of the correct use of the funds as provided for by each institution, body or department. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agencies for the financial year 2013: performance, financial management and control, given the major importance of informing eu citizens about the use of the eu budget, to which they also contribute by default.
in writing. ‒ the agency for cooperation of energy regulators (acer) has vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies on the matter. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. i therefore supported the grant of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the authority’s budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the annual budget of the european union is €145 billion (based on 2015 figures). this amounts to only 1% of the revenues generated annually by the eu economies, although it is a significant amount. each annual budget is part of a seven-year budget cycle known as the 'financial perspective'. the financial perspective is drawn up by the european commission and requires the unanimous approval of the member states and negotiations to be followed by the agreement of the european parliament. after the budget for the following financial year has been established, discharge shall be given for the budget for the following year in respect of the correct use of the funds as provided for by each institution, body or department. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2013, given the great importance of informing eu citizens about the use of the eu budget, to which they also contribute by default.
in writing. ‒ the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications (berec) has vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies on the matter. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. i therefore supported the grant of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the annual budget of the european union is €145 billion (based on 2015 figures). this amounts to only 1% of the revenues generated annually by the eu economies, although it is a significant amount. each annual budget is part of a seven-year budget cycle known as the 'financial perspective'. the financial perspective is drawn up by the european commission and requires the unanimous approval of the member states and negotiations to be followed by the agreement of the european parliament. after the budget for the following financial year has been established, discharge shall be given for the budget for the following year in respect of the correct use of the funds as provided for by each institution, body or department. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications for the financial year 2013, given the great importance of informing eu citizens about the use of the eu budget, to which they are also contributing by default.
in writing. ‒ the translation centre for the bodies of the european union is of clear benefit to eu institutions and their performance is improving year on year. i therefore supported the grant of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the annual budget of the european union is €145 billion (based on 2015 figures). this amounts to only 1% of the revenues generated annually by the eu economies, although it is a significant amount. each annual budget is part of a seven-year budget cycle known as the 'financial perspective'. the financial perspective is drawn up by the european commission and requires the unanimous approval of the member states and negotiations to be followed by the agreement of the european parliament. after the budget for the following financial year has been established, discharge shall be given for the budget for the following year in respect of the correct use of the funds as provided for by each institution, body or department. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2013, given the great importance of informing eu citizens about the use of the eu budget, to which they also contribute by default.
in writing. ‒ the european centre for the development of vocational training is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. i therefore supported the grant of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the annual budget of the european union is €145 billion (based on 2015 figures). this amounts to only 1% of the revenues generated annually by the eu economies, although it is a significant amount. each annual budget is part of a seven-year budget cycle known as the 'financial perspective'. the financial perspective is drawn up by the european commission and requires the unanimous approval of the member states and negotiations to be followed by the agreement of the european parliament. after the budget for the following financial year has been established, discharge shall be given for the budget for the following year in respect of the correct use of the funds as provided for by each institution, body or department. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2013, given the great importance of informing eu citizens about the use of the eu budget, to which they also contribute by default.
in writing. ‒ the european police college is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. i therefore supported the grant of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the annual budget of the european union is €145 billion (based on 2015 figures). this amounts to only 1% of the revenues generated annually by the eu economies, although it is a significant amount. each annual budget is part of a seven-year budget cycle known as the 'financial perspective'. the financial perspective is drawn up by the european commission and requires the unanimous approval of the member states and negotiations to be followed by the agreement of the european parliament. after the budget for the following financial year has been established, discharge shall be given for the budget for the following year in respect of the correct use of the funds as provided for by each institution, body or department. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european police college for the financial year 2013, given the great importance of informing eu citizens about the use of the eu budget, to which they also contribute by default.
in writing. ‒ the european aviaton safety agency has vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies on the matter. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. i therefore supported the grant of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the annual budget of the european union is €145 billion (based on 2015 figures). this amounts to only 1% of the revenues generated annually by the eu economies, although it is a significant amount. each annual budget is part of a seven-year budget cycle known as the 'financial perspective'. the financial perspective is drawn up by the european commission and requires the unanimous approval of the member states and negotiations to be followed by the agreement of the european parliament. after the budget for the following financial year has been established, discharge shall be given for the budget for the following year in respect of the correct use of the funds as provided for by each institution, body or department. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2013, given the great importance of informing eu citizens about the use of the eu budget, to which they are also contributing by default.
in writing. ‒ the european asylum support office has vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies on the matter. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. i therefore supported the grant of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the annual budget of the european union is €145 billion (based on 2015 figures). this amounts to only 1% of the revenues generated annually by the eu economies, although it is a significant amount. each annual budget is part of a seven-year budget cycle known as the 'financial perspective'. the financial perspective is drawn up by the european commission and requires the unanimous approval of the member states and negotiations to be followed by the agreement of the european parliament. after the budget for the following financial year has been established, discharge shall be given for the budget for the following year in respect of the correct use of the funds as provided for by each institution, body or department. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european asylum support office for the financial year 2013, given the great importance of informing eu citizens about the use of the eu budget, to which they also contribute by default.
in writing. ‒ the european banking authority has vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies on the matter. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. i therefore supported the grant of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the annual budget of the european union is €145 billion (based on 2015 figures). this amounts to only 1% of the revenues generated annually by the eu economies, although it is a significant amount. each annual budget is part of a seven-year budget cycle known as the 'financial perspective'. the financial perspective is drawn up by the european commission and requires the unanimous approval of the member states and negotiations to be followed by the agreement of the european parliament. after the budget for the following financial year has been established, discharge shall be given for the budget for the following year in respect of the correct use of the funds as provided for by each institution, body or department. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european banking authority for the financial year 2013, given the great importance of informing eu citizens about the use of the eu budget, to which they also contribute by default.
in writing. ‒ the european centre for disease prevention and control has vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies on the matter. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. i therefore supported the grant of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the annual budget of the european union is €145 billion (based on 2015 figures). this amounts to only 1% of the revenues generated annually by the eu economies, although it is a significant amount. each annual budget is part of a seven-year budget cycle known as the 'financial perspective'. the financial perspective is drawn up by the european commission and requires the unanimous approval of the member states and negotiations to be followed by the agreement of the european parliament. after the budget for the following financial year has been established, discharge shall be given for the budget for the following year in respect of the correct use of the funds as provided for by each institution, body or department. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2013, given the great importance of informing eu citizens about the use of the eu budget, to which they also contribute by default.
in writing. ‒ the european chemicals agency has vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies on the matter. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. i therefore supported the grant of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the annual budget of the european union is €145 billion (based on 2015 figures). this amounts to only 1% of the revenues generated annually by the eu economies, although it is a significant amount. each annual budget is part of a seven-year budget cycle known as the 'financial perspective'. the financial perspective is drawn up by the european commission and requires the unanimous approval of the member states and negotiations to be followed by the agreement of the european parliament. after the budget for the following financial year has been established, discharge shall be given for the budget for the following year in respect of the correct use of the funds as provided for by each institution, body or department. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2013, given the great importance of informing eu citizens about the use of the eu budget, to which they also contribute by default.
in writing. ‒ the european environment agency has vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies on the matter. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. i therefore supported the grant of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the annual budget of the european union is €145 billion (based on 2015 figures). this amounts to only 1% of the revenues generated annually by the eu economies, although it is a significant amount. each annual budget is part of a seven-year budget cycle known as the 'financial perspective'. the financial perspective is drawn up by the european commission and requires the unanimous approval of the member states and negotiations to be followed by the agreement of the european parliament. after the budget for the following financial year has been established, discharge shall be given for the budget for the following year in respect of the correct use of the funds as provided for by each institution, body or department. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2013, given the great importance of informing eu citizens about the use of the eu budget, to which they also contribute by default.
in writing. ‒ the european fisheries control agency has vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies on the matter. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. i therefore supported the grant of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the annual budget of the european union is €145 billion (based on 2015 figures). this amounts to only 1% of the revenues generated annually by the eu economies, although it is a significant amount. each annual budget is part of a seven-year budget cycle known as the 'financial perspective'. the financial perspective is drawn up by the european commission and requires the unanimous approval of the member states and negotiations to be followed by the agreement of the european parliament. after the budget for the following financial year has been established, discharge shall be given for the budget for the following year in respect of the correct use of the funds as provided for by each institution, body or department. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2013, given the great importance of informing eu citizens about the use of the eu budget, to which they also contribute by default.
in writing. ‒ the european food safety authority has vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies on the matter. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. i therefore supported the grant of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the annual budget of the european union is €145 billion (based on 2015 figures). this amounts to only 1% of the revenues generated annually by the eu economies, although it is a significant amount. each annual budget is part of a seven-year budget cycle known as the 'financial perspective'. the financial perspective is drawn up by the european commission and requires the unanimous approval of the member states and negotiations to be followed by the agreement of the european parliament. after the budget for the following financial year has been established, discharge shall be given for the budget for the following year in respect of the correct use of the funds as provided for by each institution, body or department. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european food safety authority for the financial year 2013, given the great importance of informing eu citizens about the use of the eu budget, to which they also contribute by default.
in writing. ‒ the european institute for gender equality has vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies on the matter. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. i therefore supported the grant of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the annual budget of the european union is €145 billion (based on 2015 figures). this amounts to only 1% of the revenues generated annually by the eu economies, although it is a significant amount. each annual budget is part of a seven-year budget cycle known as the 'financial perspective'. the financial perspective is drawn up by the european commission and requires the unanimous approval of the member states and negotiations to be followed by the agreement of the european parliament. after the budget for the following financial year has been established, discharge shall be given for the budget for the following year in respect of the correct use of the funds as provided for by each institution, body or department. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european institute for gender equality for the financial year 2013, given the great importance of informing eu citizens about the use of the eu budget, to which they also contribute by default.
in writing. ‒ the european insurance and occupational pensions authority has vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies on the matter. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. i therefore supported the grant of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the annual budget of the european union is €145 billion (based on 2015 figures). this amounts to only 1% of the revenues generated annually by the eu economies, although it is a significant amount. each annual budget is part of a seven-year budget cycle known as the 'financial perspective'. the financial perspective is drawn up by the european commission and requires the unanimous approval of the member states and negotiations to be followed by the agreement of the european parliament. after the budget for the following financial year has been established, discharge shall be given for the budget for the following year in respect of the correct use of the funds as provided for by each institution, body or department. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for the financial year 2013, given the great importance of informing eu citizens about the use of the eu budget, to which they also contribute by default.
in writing. ‒ the european institute of innovation and technology has vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies on the matter. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. i therefore supported the grant of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i fully support the decision of the european parliament to postpone the discharge of the european institute for innovation and technology (eit) because of insufficient quality of ex - ante and ex - post verifications and because of irregular public procurement procedures. i welcome the fact that this year again the issue of prevention and management of conflict of interest remained high on the agenda and i therefore call for a continuous monitoring during future discharge procedures. in addition, two more issues need to be stressed. first, it is the second consecutive year when the court of auditors did not find any assurance on the legality of eit's grant transactions and secondly, the internal audit function at the agency was vacant for the entire year of 2013; eit has to solve as soon as possible all the problems signalled by the parliament and to follow its recommendations.
in writing. ‒ the annual budget of the european union is €145 billion (based on 2015 figures). this amounts to only 1% of the revenues generated annually by the eu economies, although it is a significant amount. each annual budget is part of a seven-year budget cycle known as the 'financial perspective'. the financial perspective is drawn up by the european commission and requires the unanimous approval of the member states and negotiations to be followed by the agreement of the european parliament. after the budget for the following financial year has been established, discharge shall be given for the budget for the following year in respect of the correct use of the funds as provided for by each institution, body or department. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2013, given the great importance of informing eu citizens about the use of the eu budget, to which they also contribute by default.
in writing. ‒ the european medicines agency has vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies on the matter. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. i therefore supported the grant of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i fully endorse the decision of european parliament to grant the discharge to the european medicines agency for the year 2013. the agency’s budget implementation rates for the year 2012 were satisfactory. the rate of appropriations carried over was high (27 %), but this was due primarily to the agency’s move to a new location which took place in 2014. the comprehensive conflict of interest policy put into place is an example for other agencies. despite this, there is still place for improvement. the selection board members did not always complete their conflict of interest declarations, or did not do so in a timely manner, and there was no evidence of action taken to address the issues raised by these declarations. the documentation of the selection board’s proceedings was not always adequate and there is no evidence as to how the method for the short-listing of candidates was established and that the questions for the written tests or interviews were set before the examinations, but all in all, the medicine agency performed well.
in writing. ‒ the annual budget of the european union is €145 billion (based on 2015 figures). this amounts to only 1% of the revenues generated annually by the eu economies, although it is a significant amount. each annual budget is part of a seven-year budget cycle known as the 'financial perspective'. the financial perspective is drawn up by the european commission and requires the unanimous approval of the member states and negotiations to be followed by the agreement of the european parliament. after the budget for the following financial year has been established, discharge shall be given for the budget for the following year in respect of the correct use of the funds as provided for by each institution, body or department. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2013, given the great importance of informing eu citizens about the use of the eu budget, to which they also contribute by default.
in writing. ‒ the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction has vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies on the matter. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. i therefore supported the grant of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the annual budget of the european union is €145 billion (based on 2015 figures). this amounts to only 1% of the revenues generated annually by the eu economies, although it is a significant amount. each annual budget is part of a seven-year budget cycle known as the 'financial perspective'. the financial perspective is drawn up by the european commission and requires the unanimous approval of the member states and negotiations to be followed by the agreement of the european parliament. after the budget for the following financial year has been established, discharge shall be given for the budget for the following year in respect of the correct use of the funds as provided for by each institution, body or department. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2013, given the great importance of informing eu citizens about the use of the eu budget, to which they also contribute by default.
in writing. ‒ the european maritime safety agency has vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies on the matter. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. i therefore supported the grant of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the annual budget of the european union is €145 billion (based on 2015 figures). this amounts to only 1% of the revenues generated annually by the eu economies, although it is a significant amount. each annual budget is part of a seven-year budget cycle known as the 'financial perspective'. the financial perspective is drawn up by the european commission and requires the unanimous approval of the member states and negotiations to be followed by the agreement of the european parliament. after the budget for the following financial year has been established, discharge shall be given for the budget for the following year in respect of the correct use of the funds as provided for by each institution, body or department. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2013, given the great importance of informing eu citizens about the use of the eu budget, to which they are also contributing by default.
in writing. ‒ the european union agency for network and information security has vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies on the matter. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. i therefore supported the grant of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the annual budget of the european union is €145 billion (based on 2015 figures). this amounts to only 1% of the revenues generated annually by the eu economies, although it is a significant amount. each annual budget is part of a seven-year budget cycle known as the 'financial perspective'. the financial perspective is drawn up by the european commission and requires the unanimous approval of the member states and negotiations to be followed by the agreement of the european parliament. after the budget for the following financial year has been established, discharge shall be given for the budget for the following year in respect of the correct use of the funds as provided for by each institution, body or department. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for network and information security for the financial year 2013, given the great importance of informing eu citizens about the use of the eu budget, to which they also contribute by default.
in writing. ‒ the european railway agency has vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies on the matter. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. i therefore supported the grant of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the annual budget of the european union is €145 billion (based on 2015 figures). this amounts to only 1% of the revenues generated annually by the eu economies, although it is a significant amount. each annual budget is part of a seven-year budget cycle known as the 'financial perspective'. the financial perspective is drawn up by the european commission and requires the unanimous approval of the member states and negotiations to be followed by the agreement of the european parliament. after the budget for the following financial year has been established, discharge shall be given for the budget for the following year in respect of the correct use of the funds as provided for by each institution, body or department. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european railway agency for the financial year 2013, given the great importance of informing eu citizens about the use of the eu budget, to which they also contribute by default.
in writing. ‒ the european securities and market authority has vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies on the matter. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. i therefore supported the grant of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the annual budget of the european union is €145 billion (based on 2015 figures). this amounts to only 1% of the revenues generated annually by the eu economies, although it is a significant amount. each annual budget is part of a seven-year budget cycle known as the 'financial perspective'. the financial perspective is drawn up by the european commission and requires the unanimous approval of the member states and negotiations to be followed by the agreement of the european parliament. after the budget for the following financial year has been established, discharge shall be given for the budget for the following year in respect of the correct use of the funds as provided for by each institution, body or department. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european securities and markets authority for the financial year 2013, given the great importance of informing eu citizens about the use of the eu budget, to which they also contribute by default.
in writing. ‒ the european training foundation has vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies on the matter. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. i therefore supported the grant of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the annual budget of the european union is €145 billion (based on 2015 figures). this amounts to only 1% of the revenues generated annually by the eu economies, although it is a significant amount. each annual budget is part of a seven-year budget cycle known as the 'financial perspective'. the financial perspective is drawn up by the european commission and requires the unanimous approval of the member states and negotiations to be followed by the agreement of the european parliament. after the budget for the following financial year has been established, discharge shall be given for the budget for the following year in respect of the correct use of the funds as provided for by each institution, body or department. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european training foundation for the financial year 2013, given the great importance of informing eu citizens about the use of the eu budget, to which they also contribute by default.
in writing. ‒ the european agency for the operational managment of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice has vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies on the matter. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. i therefore supported the grant of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the annual budget of the european union is €145 billion (based on 2015 figures). this amounts to only 1% of the revenues generated annually by the eu economies, although it is a significant amount. each annual budget is part of a seven-year budget cycle known as the 'financial perspective'. the financial perspective is drawn up by the european commission and requires the unanimous approval of the member states and negotiations to be followed by the agreement of the european parliament. after the budget for the following financial year has been established, discharge shall be given for the budget for the following year in respect of the correct use of the funds as provided for by each institution, body or department. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice for the financial year 2013, given the great importance of informing eu citizens about the use of the eu budget, to which they also contribute by default.
in writing. ‒ the european agency for safety and health at work has vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies on the matter. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. i therefore supported the grant of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the annual budget of the european union is €145 billion (based on 2015 figures). this amounts to only 1% of the revenues generated annually by the eu economies, although it is a significant amount. each annual budget is part of a seven-year budget cycle known as the 'financial perspective'. the financial perspective is drawn up by the european commission and requires the unanimous approval of the member states and negotiations to be followed by the agreement of the european parliament. after the budget for the following financial year has been established, discharge shall be given for the budget for the following year in respect of the correct use of the funds as provided for by each institution, body or department. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2013, given the great importance of informing eu citizens about the use of the eu budget, to which they also contribute by default.
in writing. ‒ the euratom supply agency has vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies on the matter. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. i therefore supported the grant of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the annual budget of the european union is €145 billion (based on 2015 figures). this amounts to only 1% of the revenues generated annually by the eu economies, although it is a significant amount. each annual budget is part of a seven-year budget cycle known as the 'financial perspective'. the financial perspective is drawn up by the european commission and requires the unanimous approval of the member states and negotiations to be followed by the agreement of the european parliament. after the budget for the following financial year has been established, discharge shall be given for the budget for the following year in respect of the correct use of the funds as provided for by each institution, body or department. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2013, given the great importance of informing eu citizens about the use of the eu budget, to which they also contribute by default.
in writing. ‒ the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions has vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies on the matter. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. i therefore supported the grant of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the annual budget of the european union is €145 billion (based on 2015 figures). this amounts to only 1% of the revenues generated annually by the eu economies, although it is a significant amount. each annual budget is part of a seven-year budget cycle known as the 'financial perspective'. the financial perspective is drawn up by the european commission and requires the unanimous approval of the member states and negotiations to be followed by the agreement of the european parliament. after the budget for the following financial year has been established, discharge shall be given for the budget for the following year in respect of the correct use of the funds as provided for by each institution, body or department. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for the financial year 2013, given the great importance of informing eu citizens about the use of the eu budget, to which they also contribute by default.
in writing. ‒ the european union's judicial cooperation unit has vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies on the matter. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. i therefore supported the grant of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the annual budget of the european union is €145 billion (based on 2015 figures). this amounts to only 1% of the revenues generated annually by the eu economies, although it is a significant amount. each annual budget is part of a seven-year budget cycle known as the 'financial perspective'. the financial perspective is drawn up by the european commission and requires the unanimous approval of the member states and negotiations to be followed by the agreement of the european parliament. after the budget for the following financial year has been established, discharge shall be given for the budget for the following year in respect of the correct use of the funds as provided for by each institution, body or department. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of eurojust for the financial year 2013, given the great importance of informing eu citizens about the use of the eu budget, to which they also contribute by default.
in writing. ‒ the european police office has vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies on the matter. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. i therefore supported the grant of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the annual budget of the european union is €145 billion (based on 2015 figures). this amounts to only 1% of the revenues generated annually by the eu economies, although it is a significant amount. each annual budget is part of a seven-year budget cycle known as the 'financial perspective'. the financial perspective is drawn up by the european commission and requires the unanimous approval of the member states and negotiations to be followed by the agreement of the european parliament. after the budget for the following financial year has been established, discharge shall be given for the budget for the following year in respect of the correct use of the funds as provided for by each institution, body or department. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european police office for the financial year 2013, given the great importance of informing eu citizens about the use of the eu budget, to which they also contribute by default.
in writing. ‒ the european union fundamental rights agency has vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies on the matter. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. i therefore supported the grant of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the annual budget of the european union is €145 billion (based on 2015 figures). this amounts to only 1% of the revenues generated annually by the eu economies, although it is a significant amount. each annual budget is part of a seven-year budget cycle known as the 'financial perspective'. the financial perspective is drawn up by the european commission and requires the unanimous approval of the member states and negotiations to be followed by the agreement of the european parliament. after the budget for the following financial year has been established, discharge shall be given for the budget for the following year in respect of the correct use of the funds as provided for by each institution, body or department. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2013, given the great importance of informing eu citizens about the use of the eu budget, to which they also contribute by default.
in writing. ‒ the european agency for the managment of operational cooperation at the external boarders of the member states of the european union has vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies on the matter. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. i therefore supported the grant of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the annual budget of the european union is €145 billion (based on 2015 figures). this amounts to only 1% of the revenues generated annually by the eu economies, although it is a significant amount. each annual budget is part of a seven-year budget cycle known as the 'financial perspective'. the financial perspective is drawn up by the european commission and requires the unanimous approval of the member states and negotiations to be followed by the agreement of the european parliament. after the budget for the following financial year has been established, discharge shall be given for the budget for the following year in respect of the correct use of the funds as provided for by each institution, body or department. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union for the financial year 2013, given the great importance of informing eu citizens about the use of the eu budget, to which they also contribute by default.
in writing. ‒ the european gnss agency has vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies on the matter. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. i therefore supported the grant of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the annual budget of the european union is €145 billion (based on 2015 figures). this amounts to only 1% of the revenues generated annually by the eu economies, although it is a significant amount. each annual budget is part of a seven-year budget cycle known as the 'financial perspective'. the financial perspective is drawn up by the european commission and requires the unanimous approval of the member states and negotiations to be followed by the agreement of the european parliament. after the budget for the following financial year has been established, discharge shall be given for the budget for the following year in respect of the correct use of the funds as provided for by each institution, body or department. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european gnss agency for the financial year 2013, given the great importance of informing eu citizens about the use of the eu budget, to which they also contribute by default.
in writing. ‒ artemis joint undertaking has vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies on the matter. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. i therefore supported the grant of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i fully endorse the decision of the parliament to postpone the discharge of artemis joint undertaking for the year 2013. the lack of a clear and comprehensive assessment of the audits performed by artemis on the national funding authorities is an obvious sign that taxpayer's money are being wasted. the joint undertaking has to remedy this situation as a matter of urgency. in addition, i urge the joint undertaking to proceed to a rapid, complete and in-depth disclosure of cvs and declaration of interests until the end of september 2015. i call upon the joint undertaking to create a regularly updated database which includes all information related to conflicts of interest and a procedure to manage them as soon as possible. the joint undertaking should adopt comprehensive policies for the management of conflict of interest situations such as: recusal of the public official from involvement in an affected decision-making process, restriction of access by the affected public, etc.
in writing. ‒ the annual budget of the european union is €145 billion (based on 2015 figures). this amounts to only 1% of the revenues generated annually by the eu economies, although it is a significant amount. each annual budget is part of a seven-year budget cycle known as the 'financial perspective'. the financial perspective is drawn up by the european commission and requires the unanimous approval of the member states and negotiations to be followed by the agreement of the european parliament. after the budget for the following financial year has been established, discharge shall be given for the budget for the following year in respect of the correct use of the funds as provided for by each institution, body or department. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, given the great importance of informing eu citizens about the use of the eu budget, to which they also contribute by default.
in writing. ‒ the clean sky joint undertaking has vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies on the matter. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving every year. i therefore supported the grant of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the annual budget of the european union is €145 billion (based on 2015 figures). this amounts to only 1% of the revenues generated annually by the eu economies, although it is a significant amount. each annual budget is part of a seven-year budget cycle known as the 'financial perspective'. the financial perspective is drawn up by the european commission and requires the unanimous approval of the member states and negotiations to be followed by the agreement of the european parliament. after the budget for the following financial year has been established, discharge shall be given for the budget for the following year in respect of the correct use of the funds as provided for by each institution, body or department. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the clean sky joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, given the great importance of informing eu citizens about the use of the eu budget, to which they also contribute by default.
in writing. ‒ the eniac joint undertaking has vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies on the matter. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving every year. i therefore supported the grant of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i fully support the decision of the parliament to postpone the discharge of the eniac joint undertaking for the year 2013. i would like to express my deep concern about the fact that it is the 3rd consecutive year when eniac receives a qualified majority opinion from the european court of auditors. i expect eniac to further strenghten its conflict of interest policy and to set up a database to include all information related to conflicts of interest. i also stress the need for eniac to provide us with a clear, comprehensive and complete track record of cases where they show they can manage conflict of interests cases by concrete measures, such as the divestment of the interest by the public official, recusal of the public official from involvement in an affected decision-making process, restriction of access by the affected public, etc.
in writing. ‒ the annual budget of the european union is €145 billion (based on 2015 figures). this amounts to only 1% of the revenues generated annually by the eu economies, although it is a significant amount. each annual budget is part of a seven-year budget cycle known as the 'financial perspective'. the financial perspective is drawn up by the european commission and requires the unanimous approval of the member states and negotiations to be followed by the agreement of the european parliament. after the budget for the following financial year has been established, discharge shall be given for the budget for the following year in respect of the correct use of the funds as provided for by each institution, body or department. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, given the major importance of informing eu citizens about the use of the eu budget, to which they also contribute by default.
in writing. ‒ the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking has vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies on the matter. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. i therefore supported the grant of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the annual budget of the european union is €145 billion (based on 2015 figures). this amounts to only 1% of the revenues generated annually by the eu economies, although it is a significant amount. each annual budget is part of a seven-year budget cycle known as the 'financial perspective'. the financial perspective is drawn up by the european commission and requires the unanimous approval of the member states and negotiations to be followed by the agreement of the european parliament. after the budget for the following financial year has been established, discharge shall be given for the budget for the following year in respect of the correct use of the funds as provided for by each institution, body or department. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the fuel cable and hydrogen joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, given the great importance of informing eu citizens about the use of the eu budget, to which they also contribute by default.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with the decision of the parliament to grant the discharge to imi. even though the budget error rate of imi was 2,3%, there are still serious problems concerning transparency issues. i would like to stress that the cv and declaration of interest of the management board members, the executive director and senior management members are not publicly available; the joint undertaking should make public the cvs and declaration of interests of its managerial staff members, the management board members and the experts it employs. in addition, contact details should be available on the joint undertaking's website. i therefore expect the innovative medicines initiative 2 to remedy the situation as a matter of urgency. this is the only way to offer full transparency, limit the risks of conflicts of interest and protect the taxpayers' money.
in writing. ‒ the annual budget of the european union is €145 billion (based on 2015 figures). this amounts to only 1% of the revenues generated annually by the eu economies, although it is a significant amount. each annual budget is part of a seven-year budget cycle known as the 'financial perspective'. the financial perspective is drawn up by the european commission and requires the unanimous approval of the member states and negotiations to be followed by the agreement of the european parliament. after the budget for the following financial year has been established, discharge shall be given for the budget for the following year in respect of the correct use of the funds as provided for by each institution, body or department. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for the implementation of the joint technology initiative on innovative medicines for the financial year 2013, given the great importance of informing eu citizens about the use of the eu budget, to which they are also contributing by default.
in writing. ‒ i do not support the decision of the parliament to grant iter discharge. even though i am aware that iter has some ‘legacy’ problems which are not easy to solve and a new director has been appointed, we need to look at the facts. the reality is that iter lacks a plan and a project implementation table. iter should also provide a clear, comprehensive and complete track record of cases where they show they can manage conflict of interests cases by taking concrete measures, such as: the divestment of the interest by the public official, recusal of the public official from involvement in an affected decision-making process, restriction of access by the affected public, etc. in addition, i would like to stress that the many irregularities in contract awards have been another reason why i voted to postpone the discharge of iter for the year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the annual budget of the european union is €145 billion (based on 2015 figures). this amounts to only 1% of the revenues generated annually by the eu economies, although it is a significant amount. each annual budget is part of a seven-year budget cycle known as the 'financial perspective'. the financial perspective is drawn up by the european commission and requires the unanimous approval of the member states and negotiations to be followed by the agreement of the european parliament. after the budget for the following financial year has been established, discharge shall be given for the budget for the following year in respect of the correct use of the funds as provided for by each institution, body or department. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2013, given the great importance of informing eu citizens about the use of the eu budget, to which they also contribute by default.
in writing. ‒ the annual budget of the european union is €145 billion (based on 2015 figures). this amounts to only 1% of the revenues generated annually by the eu economies, although it is a significant amount. each annual budget is part of a seven-year budget cycle known as the 'financial perspective'. the financial perspective is drawn up by the european commission and requires the unanimous approval of the member states and negotiations to be followed by the agreement of the european parliament. after the budget for the following financial year has been established, discharge shall be given for the budget for the following year in respect of the correct use of the funds as provided for by each institution, body or department. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, given the great importance of informing eu citizens about the use of the eu budget to which they are also contributing.
in writing. ‒ i am very pleased that we finally reached the much needed compromise on the money market funds dossiers. the position of the epp and ecr groups of maintaining the status quo was no longer sustainable. no deal could be made in the previous mandate even if a regulation on the topic is unavoidable. money market funds provide for an important source of short-term financing and because of the systemic interconnectedness with the banking sector and with corporate and government finance, mmfs have been identified as acting as shadow banks and are therefore susceptible to different risks. i welcome the very positive elements that have been introduced in the report such as the lvnavs that allowed a compromise on how to tackle fluctuating share values of cnavs and thereby their systemic risk. lvnav will be much more stable than cnav, eliminating many risks associated with current cnavs. moreover public debt cnavs have been created and it will be possible to use them to invest in eu public debt. liquidity and diversification requirements for mmf have also been strengthened, as have transparency and reporting requirements.
in writing. ‒ money market funds (mmfs) provide short-term financing to financial institutions, businesses or governments. by providing funding to these entities, mmfs contribute to the financing of the european economy. these entities use their mmf investments as an efficient way to spread their credit risk and exposure rather than relying solely on bank deposits. mmfs are an essential link between demand and supply of short-term financing. we voted for this report to ensure uniform requirements applying to money market funds across the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the reform of regulation (ec) no 517/1994 because the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon brought the previous decision-making procedures in the field of trade policy into line with the new system of delegated and implementing acts. regulation (ec) no 517/1994 concerns the common arrangements applicable to imports of textile products from certain third countries which are not covered by bilateral agreements, protocols or other arrangements or by other specific import arrangements of the eu. the only countries from which the eu currently imports textiles that are not subject to bilateral agreements, protocols, other arrangements or other specific eu import rules are belarus and north korea. the regulation thus sets annual quantitative limits for imports of certain textile products from those two countries. given that the textiles sector is a sensitive one in the european union, it is all the more important that third countries be supervised when imports of textiles are likely to cause serious injury to the eu production of similar or directly competing products.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this technical proposals that seek to codify two existing regulations that deal with common rules on surveillance and safeguard measures. the main change of the recast concerns updating the annex to remove countries which have now become members of the wto, namely armenia, russia, tajikistan and vietnam.
in writing. ‒ on 10 and 11 december 2014, the european economic and social committee delivered a favourable opinion on the text proposed by the european council on the 'proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on common rules for imports of textile products from certain third countries not covered by bilateral agreements, protocols or other arrangements, or by other specific union import arrangements (recast) com ((2014) 345 final 2014/0177 (cod) ' given that title i of regulation (ec) no 427/20034, and with it the possibility of imposing safeguard measures, expired on 11 december 2013, i voted for this resolution in order to address this legal and procedural vacuum.
in writing. i voted for the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on common rules for imports of textile products from certain third countries, which is part of an alignment process following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon to ensure that previous decision-making procedures in the field of trade policy are aligned with the new system of delegated and implementing acts. the textile sector is a sensitive sector of the eu and as such it is important that the applicable rules are clear and easy to use by the operators concerned and that they ensure legal certainty. during the examination of the proposal by the parliament and the council, the need for further technical corrections to the proposal was identified.
in writing. ‒ i agree that in the current context, the top priority must be the security of parliament's buildings and that parliament will have to take the new measures necessary to strengthen security inside and outside its buildings, while remaining an 'open house' for all european citizens.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the committee on budgets, i would like to welcome the good cooperation between the european parliament's bureau and the committee on budgets during the current budgetary procedure. i would like to point out, however, that i did not vote for the draft budget proposed because its final form does not contain some elements which i consider important in the proper conduct of the work of a member of the european parliament. namely, the final draft did not take up the request to remove the wage limit imposed on employees and suppliers from eastern european countries. the same draft also requires the limitation of the number of local assistants and the increase of the number of assistants accredited to brussels, without taking into account the size of the constituency in which meps were elected. in addition, the final draft increases the funds allocated to the bureaucracy in the parliament's secretariat, without adequately funding the work of representing citizens.
mr president, fraud in the use of eu funds not only affects the financial interests of eu citizens and taxpayers, but also undermines social justice and the trust of people in institutions and public policies. eppo must be an institution that is strong and efficient enough to bring added value compared to the current status quo of member state competence in the field. in order to achieve this, there should be a clear and integrated approach between the activities and competences of eurojust, eppo and olaf. matters of jurisdiction should be clearly defined and there should be a uniform and transparent procedure in all countries. even if the council decides to maintain the collegiate structure, decisions on cases and procedures should be taken on a centralised level and there should be strong guarantees regarding the independence of the new institution.
in writing. ‒ member states report a loss of around €500 million in eu expenditure and revenue due to fraud each year, although the amounts at risk are close to €3 billion annually. i am confident that the european public prosecutor's office will ensure that the protection of the union budget is given the right priority across europe, especially in today's economic context. it will also serve as a bridge between the criminal justice systems of the member states whose jurisdiction extends beyond national borders. the zero tolerance policy for fraud against the eu budget is welcome, so that criminals who use various legal means to steal taxpayers' money should not be left free because of the lack of the necessary tools to bring them to justice. moreover, this proposal guarantees protection within national systems as regards the procedural rights of persons concerned by the investigations of this office, for example, the right to interpretation and translation, the right to information, access to the file or the right to a lawyer. i voted in favour of this report to improve the prosecution of those who commit fraud against the taxpayers of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of a european public prosecutor’s office (‘eppo’) would be to investigate, prosecute and bring to trial criminal offences related to fraud against the financial interests of the european union. according to article 86 tfeu, an eppo is to be established under the consent procedure. the core aspects for which the s&d fought include the selection procedures for independent european prosecutors; the division of jurisdiction between an eppo and national prosecutors; the involvement of the eppo in prosecutions for ancillary offences (i.e. those offences linked to the fraud offence which are not in themselves fraud offences); the streamlining of investigative measures undertaken by an eppo; the need for rules on admissibility of evidence to properly respect existing eu law in this area; the reinforcement of procedural rights of suspects; the judicial review of acts of the eppo, and clarity on data protection provisions. i support the adoption of the report as the establishment of an independent and effective eppo will help to protect the eu’s financial interests against fraud and corruption.
in writing. ‒ as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on legal affairs to the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, i would like to highlight some important points that i have included in the amendments tabled. the european public prosecutor's office should be able to provide the necessary legal assistance to the european public prosecutor in the event of a dispute between the european public prosecutor and the european public prosecutor. i regret, however, that the current proposal to establish the european public prosecutor's office has a sphere of competence limited to fraud. i therefore asked the european commission 'to propose, after the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office, an extension of its mandate to include certain categories of serious cross-border crime, such as organised crime and terrorism'. i voted in favour of this report in view of the added value of the establishment of this body in combating fraud-related offences against the financial interests of the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office because i believe that it is necessary for the eu. the principles on which the eppo should be based, as i see them, are expressed to some extent in this report, but i stress that throughout this process we must speak about the quality of those who are to be appointed. the general framework expressed in this report will mean nothing if the people who will occupy the posts in this system are not recommended by their moral and professional integrity, as well as by their competence and experience. i therefore believe it is essential to have a very clear, apolitical and independent analysis of the people who will occupy these posts.
the question is "blue cardboard". madam president, i have heard mrs alliot-marie speak and i would like to ask her the following question. what action does the european union need to take in this direction, in your view, as a former french minister? you're talking about a country with one religion. the european union cannot intervene to oppose all this. what kind of action are you considering? military action, humanitarian action, or something? how can we prevent such events from happening in other countries?
madam president, the lives of human beings in societies devastated by wars, poverty and ignorance seem to have lost their value, and nightmares like the dreadful massacres of garissa come true. it seems that, in the last 10 years, terrorist attacks against schools and universities have become a recurring tactic of global terrorism. this is obviously not a coincidence. terrorists hate education and instruction – probably because some of them have been excluded from it. this is why, in my opinion, if we want to tackle the root causes of terrorism, we must focus on conditions that make these extremist groups attractive to younger people. these conditions include underdevelopment due to the lack of public and private investment; institutional, economic, social and political discrimination against minorities; brutal repression and violations of human rights. rebellion against government and other extremist groups is often connected to poverty, extremely high unemployment rates and a general sense of insecurity.
member of the commission.– madam president, this debate was a precious opportunity to share our ideas and highlight the importance we all attach to this issue. we all agree that the looting of cultural heritage is a despicable crime and that we must endeavour by all possible means to stop it. we are all aware that the protection of cultural goods concerns us all. it is a matter that has to do with the very notion of civilisation. as i said in my remarks, the european union is strongly committed to this principle. the european union is already active at many different levels in the fight against the illicit traffic in cultural goods and is also contributing to the restoration of damaged cultural heritage. moreover, many european union legislative acts provide for the restitution of cultural artefacts unlawfully removed from their territory and ensure that exports of cultural goods are subject to uniform controls at the european union’s external borders. the european union is also engaged in raising awareness of this issue with its partners, providing recommendations and lines of action, and is party to international conventions that aim at the protection and fostering of cultural diversity. i hope that the discussion we had today will help inspire our further action in this field and that the cultural heritage of syria and iraq will be spared further looting.
president-in-office of the council.– madam president, thank you very much for this debate and for having raised this very important topic. the safeguarding of cultural heritage as a symbol of identity and social cohesion, especially for populations living in conflict zones, is our shared concern and common task. the council fully supports the view that cooperation with unesco and other international organisations working on the preservation of the world’s cultural heritage and on combating organised crime is of great importance and should be reinforced. the european union, both internally and together with its international partners, is working on countering terrorism. the sad reality is that we are working against the clock, as no future measure or eventual punishment will bring back to us the invaluable artefacts that have been destroyed. coming back to ms costa’s remark on the council’s cooperation with the european space agency to use satellite images to locate cultural sites and document them, i would like you to know that the council actually monitors relations between the eu and the european space agency, including in the framework of the ‘copernicus’ european earth observation programme. applications of earth observation, such as the ones indicated by the parliamentary question, within conflict zones are within the scope of the future copernicus security services in support of external actions. however, until today the location of cultural sites has not been part of current copernicus requirements, but the programme could exploit this potential in the future. finally, we also need to join forces and ensure that, when the conflicts in syria, iraq and other countries in the region are over, culture will be there to help people engage on the path towards peace.
in writing. many archaeological, religious and cultural sites in syria, iraq have recently been destroyed by extremist groups. these attacks on cultural heritage have been described by unesco director-general irina bokova as 'cultural cleansing'. i believe that the eu must take firm action to prevent the destruction and illicit trade in cultural heritage goods by finding ways of cooperating with the competent structures within national investigative services, unesco and other international organisations. the marketing in the member states of cultural goods illegally removed from any country must be blocked. the european union must have control over the import of cultural goods into its territory.
madam president, mohamed nasheed, the former president of the maldives, was arrested a month and a half ago, for the 18th time in 25 years. for two and a half decades, nasheed has been a symbol of democracy in his country. after years of nonviolent opposition, exile, imprisonment, as i said earlier, nasheed became, in 2008, the first elected president of the maldives, ending the thirty years of autocratic rule of maumoon abdul gayoom, and his coming to power, through free, pluralist elections, was a major step in the democratization of the country. unfortunately, as we see today, this step was not enough. the political situation in the maldives is more than worrisome, because the institutions of the state are deeply politicized and include the judiciary. the terrorism charges being brought against nasheed, his 13 year prison sentence are visible signs of the instrumentalization of justice by political power. this political power is again in the hands of the gayoom family, because the current president is the stepbrother of the former head of state, and his daughter is the country's foreign minister. that's politically the country! so we are a long way from the democratic regime that the citizens of this country were striving for in 2008, and i think it's essential to get back on the path of democratization.
madam president, it is clear that the maldives are no longer just a paradise for tourists. they have become a place where there is increasing danger posed by fundamentalists, by an efficient and politicised judiciary, and by an erosion of human rights and democratic principles. the show trial of former president mohamed nasheed is a demonstration of this dysfunctional state of democracy. this so-called trial does not at all respect the basic principles of a fair trial and goes against the maldivian state’s constitution. we have always been at the forefront in our commitment and support to consolidate democracy, promote good governance, strengthen key institutions and help the maldives to address social, environmental and transnational challenges. i believe that it is important that we continue to play a role in the country’s democratic transition by formally calling for an end to violence against peaceful protestors and by ensuring that mr nasheed’s rights are fully respected in accordance with the maldives’ international obligations and standards.
madam president, i shall only refer to the critical aspect as i do not have much time. we have witnessed for many years the same attitude from both parties in albania. we saw boycotts; we saw complaints; we saw different allegations made against each other, and i refer to the main parties. we saw a lack of real political dialogue for the benefit of the people; we saw a lack of government for the benefit of the people. and most people in albania do not trust the political class. we should be aware of this. i receive such messages constantly from albanian people. we work here in parliament for the benefit of the albanian people and not for the benefit of the political parties or of the politicians. this is why we should tell them, when they do wrong, even if they are our sister parties, that they are doing wrong and they should put things right. we should not take sides when it is not appropriate to take sides. if they do wrong, we should say so. if we work together here – all parties – they will work together for the benefit of the albanian people.
madam president, we cannot allow a grey area in south-eastern europe. sooner or later all these countries from south-eastern europe have to join the european union, therefore i support the european integration process of albania. i would like to welcome the good progress achieved so far, the encouraging reports and tangible results, and i believe that the opening of accession negotiations with albania constitutes the major incentive for the country to speed up. albania must accelerate its efforts on public administration reform; on the reform of the judiciary; in the fight against corruption and organised crime; and in enhancing the protection of fundamental rights. the success of the reform process depends on the existence of a democratic political environment. to secure the sustainability of the integration process, all political parties need to cooperate and work constructively together. moreover, i believe that ensuring political consensus and developing a genuine democratic dialogue are elements of utmost importance. last but not least, i would like to thank and praise the rapporteur, mr fleckenstein, as well as the shadow rapporteurs.
member of the commission.– madam president, albania’s european future is in its own hands. motivation and ownership are essential to continue working towards meeting the key priorities. the rule of law remains of the utmost importance. in this sense, fighting against corruption and organised crime and strengthening the independence, efficiency and accountability of the judiciary are crucial for the full implementation of the rule of law. further work on fundamentals is also needed with a focus on public administration reform and economic governance. in order to make that possible, smooth implementation of the december political agreement that put an end to the parliamentary boycott by the opposition is more important than ever. in this context, commissioner hahn recalled that the government and the opposition need to work together to ensure a sustainable reform process. the commission is fully committed to continue helping albania on its eu path. we thank the european parliament for this report which contributes to this commitment. we expect that albania will continue to deliver sustainable and solid reforms so that it can move forward on its eu integration path.
president-in-office of the council.– madam president, i believe that this has been a very useful debate. the council welcomes parliament’s commitment and determination to encourage albania to push the necessary reforms forward. i agree fully with those who have said that the integration process is an opportunity, as was said here during the debate. we have listed several key elements in the reform path of albania. i share your views that cross-party political dialogue and cooperation is essential for the eu integration process to continue advancing. key eu-related reforms are essential not just to please the eu but because they are in the interest of albania itself. in order to carry out the reforms, the political leaders in albania must live up to their responsibilities for the good of its citizens. i am pleased that the debate today has focused on the needs of albanian citizens as well as a positive commitment by albania in developing regional cooperation. let me reiterate that the council is determined to continue its engagement with albania. as regards the current state of the political dialogue in albania, the eu has expressed its concern over the confrontational nature of political dialogue in albania and there is a responsibility on all political sides to ensure a constructive and inclusive dialogue. we welcome the political agreement that put an end to the parliamentary boycott last december and hope that it will be fully implemented by both parties. in this regard, we highly appreciate the role of parliament in the re-establishment of the political dialogue in the parliament of albania. we strongly urge the parties to make sure the process does not go off track. the adoption of legislation paving the way for a national council for eu integration, chaired by the opposition, is a positive first step.
thank you all for this debate. i have received one motion for a resolution tabled in accordance with rule 123(2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 30 april 2015.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on the progress report on bosnia and herzegovina (2014/2952(rsp)).
president-in-office of the council.– madam president, let me start by saying that this has been a positive and important year for the eu’s relationships with bosnia and herzegovina. during the last 12 months the eu has demonstrated its strong commitment to the eu perspective of bosnia and herzegovina. i would like to recall that the council, in its conclusions of 15 december 2014, expressed serious concern that the country remained at a standstill in its eu integration process due to a lack of collective political will on the part of the political leaders to address the reforms necessary for progress. the eu expressed its readiness to provide help and support, but it has to be noted that the primary responsibility for progress lies with bosnia and herzegovina. this is why the eu has agreed on a new strategy, or what is termed a ‘renewed approach’, with respect to that country. the spirit of the renewed approach involves reordering the priority issues for bosnia and herzegovina on its path towards the eu so as to generate momentum and finally move forward. in its conclusions of last december, the council set out its conditions for reforms to be made by bosnia and herzegovina in order to be able to proceed with the conclusions and entry into force of the stabilisation and association agreement. i will proceed by mentioning the most important ones. first, last year’s protest in bosnia and herzegovina underlined the fragility of the socio-economic situation and highlighted the issues that are of direct concern to its citizens. in this regard let me list here some fields where the eu also expects concrete reforms on the ground. first of all, putting in place measures for building a functioning market economy, also undertaking measures for strengthening the rule of law and the reconciliation process, and strengthening administrative capacity and enhancing the efficiency of institutions at all levels. second, the council welcomed the wider remit of the eu-bosnia and herzegovina structured dialogue on justice, covering rule-of-law matters, in particular the fight against corruption. third, bosnia and herzegovina should establish an effective coordination mechanism on eu issues. such a mechanism would improve the country’s interaction with the eu, including with respect to the funding of the instrument for pre-accession assistance. progress in this regard would open the way for bosnia and herzegovina to benefit fully from the funding available. inter alia, bosnia and herzegovina has to observe its obligations relating to trade provisions involving croatia as provided for in the stabilisation and association agreement. since december, important progress has been made. the first steps have been taken. the council welcomed the adoption of the written commitment by the presidency of bosnia and herzegovina on 29 january. it was signed by leaders of political parties and subsequently endorsed in the parliament of bosnia and herzegovina on 23 february during the visit of high representative mogherini to sarajevo. in order to emphasise the eu’s new approach, as well as to discuss the commitment by the government of bosnia and herzegovina, under the eu’s new approach, the president of the council, the minister of foreign affairs of latvia, mr edgars rinkēvičs, visited sarajevo on 11 march. on 16 march the council called on bosnia and herzegovina to remain engaged with the european union under the renewed approach. we called on the leadership to maintain the positive momentum by developing an initial agenda for reforms in consultations with the european union. with regard to the commitment undertaken by bosnia and herzegovina, the council recently concluded the process launched seven years ago by adopting the decision on entry into force of the stabilisation and association agreement. the agreement will enter into force on 1 june. i am convinced that this agreement will not only allow bosnia and herzegovina to move forward in its relations with the eu, but will also serve as an incentive to continue the reforms necessary for eu integration. progress on the implementation of the agenda for reforms, including the compact for growth and jobs, would be necessary for a membership application to be considered by the european union. let me express my sincere gratitude for the excellent work that the rapporteur of the european parliament on bosnia and herzegovina, cristian dan preda, has done on the draft report. i am looking forward to the discussion.
member of the commission.– madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr cristian preda, for the resolution on the 2014 progress report on bosnia and herzegovina. we welcome the text which is balanced and largely in line with our october 2014 progress report. it reflects well the state of play in the country, notably when it comes to the serious internal challenges it faces, including on the eu integration path. the commission particularly welcomes the support this resolution provides for the new eu approach towards bosnia and herzegovina, as agreed by the foreign affairs council in december 2014. we also welcome the support for the envisaged next steps on the country’s eu integration path, starting with the socio-economic reforms, on the basis of the compact for growth and jobs, as well as the setting up of an effective coordination mechanism on eu matters. the commission is fully dedicated to advancing bosnia and herzegovina’s eu perspective. the december 2014 eu initiative has already resulted in a unanimous written commitment from the country’s leaders and institutions to undertake the reforms needed to progress towards the european union. on this basis, the april general affairs council agreed to bring the stabilisation and association agreement into force as of 1 june 2015. we expect the stabilisation and association agreement to be a springboard for deep reforms in the country. the commission will specifically monitor its implementation and support the country in addressing the priorities stemming from the agreement. at the same time, and in line with the next steps in the eu initiative, the commission is now closely engaging with the new bosnia and herzegovina authorities towards the definition and implementation of a reform agenda in the coming months. this will build on previous initiatives aimed at addressing citizens’ socio-economic concerns, such as the compact for growth and jobs. in this respect, the commission will work with the new authorities on the implementation of the compact as well as on the preparation of an economic reform programme. overall, i would like to stress that a positive dynamic has now been created in the country around the eu initiative. this needs to continue over the next months in order to bring about the necessary reforms. this will require the european union to remain fully engaged in bosnia and herzegovina and to support the country’s delivering on its priorities, in close cooperation with international and local stakeholders such as international financial institutions and civil society organisations.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, i would like to begin by condemning in the strongest terms the terrorist attack in zvornik two days ago and express my deepest sympathy to the victims and their families. they are dragan đurić, the officer who lost his life, and željko gajić and stevo milovanović, who suffered injuries. it is a time when all citizens must come together and it is important not to politicize. i should also like to welcome the council's decision of 21 april last on the entry into force of the stabilisation and association agreement with bosnia-herzegovina. this is an important decision which will enable bosnia and herzegovina and the union to work together on a new basis from 1 june. this entry into force of the agreement offers very concrete prospects for union membership for bosnia and herzegovina and demonstrates the seriousness and capacity of the union to deliver on its commitments under the new approach adopted in december 2014. i hope that the leaders of bosnia and herzegovina will do the same and seize this opportunity to come closer to europe. i would like to stress the very great responsibility they have. we are all determined to put bosnia and herzegovina back on the track of european integration. but it is up to the country's political leaders to show courage and formulate and implement the vast reform programme. the reforms that are needed are precisely what defines european integration: reforms that improve the economic situation, strengthen the rule of law, eliminate corruption and organised crime, and make the country's governance more efficient and responsive to citizens' expectations. in conclusion, i would also like to stress the importance of mobilising everyone in bosnia and herzegovina behind this reform programme and focusing on this issue, rather than on divisive issues. nothing should divert us from this program. the prospect of a better life for all in the country should be enough of an incentive. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". madam president, there is of course a political deadlock, which we all know, but i do hope that the country's political elites will seize the opportunity offered by this new european initiative. we are all aware of the influence that the russians want to have in bosnia-herzegovina, as well as the risk of an islamist influence. because the attack two days ago was carried out with the cry of "allahu akbar", like in paris. the russians and islam are real dangers in this country. let us be very aware of that.
the question is "blue cardboard". madam president, mr chauprade, what do you find wrong with the attitude of the european union and the atlanticist attitude? what is the problem, from a substantive point of view? do you want another destiny for bosnia? is moscow, your beloved capital, the only centre of attraction you see for the peoples of europe?
madam president, looking at the report and listening to colleagues today, i feel we can draw some strong common lines. bosnia and herzegovina still needs to address some crucial institutional, economic and social reforms. the country needs to strengthen the rule of law and the fight against corruption and organised crime, and these are not abstract priorities. the citizens of bosnia and herzegovina expect bold measures from the new executive. they expect tangible actions, higher living standards, and modern, effective and accountable public institutions. but when we look at where we stand today, i think we can be positive because things are moving again and in the right direction. today we acknowledge the reform efforts and ambitions of the written commitment. our engagement in the past few months and the decision on the stabilisation and association agreement are a solid recognition of that. the path ahead has been marked out. now it is up to the country’s institutions and leaders to implement and deliver.
madam president, i support the renewed approach of the eu towards bosnia and herzegovina. the report calls for the revitalisation of the reform process underlying the need for political commitment and genuine ownership. the political leadership has to refrain from divisive nationalistic and secessionist rhetoric that polarises a society, and of course they have to work for efficient re-implementation of the written commitment to eu integration. we have to be very clear. once again, we cannot afford to speak against the accession of bosnia and herzegovina to the european union in the future, because bosnia and herzegovina lies in the middle of europe. i have heard lots of our colleagues talking about muslims from bosnia and herzegovina and so on – there are muslims all over europe. there are muslims in countries in the western balkans. the issue is that all these citizens, if they embrace democracy, the rule of law, human rights and european values, have to have a chance to join the european union.
member of the commission.– the commission welcomes the resolution on the 2014 progress report on bosnia and herzegovina. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr preda, for his high-quality report. i would also like to thank all the members who have actively participated in the debate and shown a keen interest in bosnia and herzegovina’s european future. the commission has taken good note of this resolution and will take your views on the eu’s policy towards bosnia and herzegovina into account. we specifically share parliament’s view that the new authorities should undertake serious reforms, in line with their commitments not only to the eu but also towards their citizens. at the same time, the commission also expects the country’s leaders and institutions to agree on an effective coordination mechanism on eu affairs. this is essential if the country is to make further progress towards the european union, fully benefit from the funding available under our pre—accession instrument and properly implement the eu acquis. let me also mention that the commission has taken note of parliament’s call for an internal reform within the country based on several principles such as decentralisation and federalism. however, in line with our approach for all enlargement countries, including past eu enlargements, the commission reiterates that the european union has no competence regarding the internal structure of a state. while there are various models amongst eu member states – unitary, federal, decentralised – what matters is the capacity of a country to meet all its obligations as a future eu member. it will be up to bosnia and herzegovina’s political leaders and citizens to decide on how best to comply with the eu membership requirements. finally, i would like to stress that the commission will spare no efforts in supporting bosnia and herzegovina on its path towards the european union. the commission will keep parliament fully informed in the coming months on further developments regarding bosnia and herzegovina.
president-in-office of the council.– madam president, this has been a very lively debate. we have witnessed that eu enlargement policy is delivering concrete results through reforms that are gradually transforming balkan countries. today, we can claim that this year has been important for the eu relationship with bosnia and herzegovina. i am glad to know that the first results have been obtained with the adoption and endorsement of the written commitment to undertake reforms in the framework of the eu accession process, and subsequently with our decision to finalise a stabilisation and association agreement. indeed, the renewed eu approach to bosnia and herzegovina has the potential to induce the long-awaited revitalisation of bosnia and herzegovina’s path towards the european union and to provide a positive stimulus to continue socio-economic, judicial and political reforms in the country. i am particularly pleased that we have passed the springboard for deep reforms in bosnia and herzegovina – as commissioner mimica put it – during the latvian presidency. i also agree with the statement of mr brok that the engagement of bosnia and herzegovina on reform paths will ensure the dynamism of the whole western balkan region. i want to reiterate that we stand ready to provide further support and assistance to help bosnia and herzegovina move closer to the eu, but the hardest job lies ahead of the country’s leaders. the reform process is in the interest of the country itself and, above all, its citizens.
president. - i have received a motion for a resolution tabled pursuant to rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday.
the next item is the report by goffredo maria bettini, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 introducing exceptional trade measures for countries and territories participating in or linked to the european union’s stabilisation and association process and suspending its application with regard to bosnia and herzegovina (com(2014)0386 – c8—0039/2014 – 2014/0197(cod)) (a8-0060/2015).
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs, i am a little disappointed that our proposal for a positive wording of the human rights clause was not finally adopted. i remain convinced that the wording of such clauses in the texts on autonomous trade measures must be improved and that we must try to achieve greater consistency between the various branches of our external action. a positive wording of this human rights clause would, in my view, be more in line with the copenhagen criteria for enlargement because, let us not forget, the countries of the western balkans are going to join us in the european union! as the rapporteur for bosnia-herzegovina in parliament, i must also say that it was difficult for me to deal with this matter in the afet committee because of the clause suspending trade preferences which would come into force for this country if no agreement was reached on the adaptation of the association and stabilisation agreement following croatia's accession to the union. i think that this should not be seen as a sanction but as an incentive for the authorities of the country to reach an agreement, also taking into account the good relations under the new approach of the union.
blue-card question.– i would like to put a question to mr dzhambazki as shadow rapporteur. mr dzhambazki , you were, of course, talking about the inclusion of human rights, which is very important and by all means we have to promote our values, the values of the european union, but do you not think that the european union should put stronger pressure on the two entities of bosnia and herzegovina, on the muslim croat federation and republika srpska, to integrate the institutions, to integrate the army of the two entities, to integrate the police, to integrate other judiciaries and so on and so forth, because this is a way in which this country might have a chance to join the european union?
mr president, the question of financing the new post-2015 development framework, which will be adopted in new york in september, is of course crucial. the fact is that it is no use having ambitious sustainable development goals if we do not give ourselves the financial means to achieve them. indeed, if credible financial commitments are not made, the whole exercise of redefining our development agenda will remain nothing more than promises written on a piece of paper. in my amendments in the committee on development i have repeatedly supported an ambitious european position, including on this point. i hope that the union's participation in the addis ababa conference in july will make it possible to achieve this. i would like to stress that it is not only the level of our commitment to public development aid that will ensure the success of the sustainable development goals, but also our ability to find new innovative sources of funding and to better involve the private sector in this effort. indeed, there is a real need to find ways of encouraging the private sector to take a more development-oriented approach and thus contribute to our efforts.
mr president, it is always a pleasure to speak on such an important issue, assistance for development. in fact when speaking about assistance for development we speak about the euʼs role, we speak about about influence, we speak about respect, we speak about the importance of our organisation, we speak about our values and promotion of our values, we speak about stability and peace, we speak about development. if we truly want to make 2015 the year of development we must have a successful strategy – which i do not see yet very clearly – and powerful means to accomplish the millennium development goals that we are negotiating this year. considering the importance of official development assistance in assisting third-world countries to achieve a level of stabilisation and prosperity, i highly recommend that this chamber votes in favour of the continuance of the commitment that member states made in 2005.
mr president, i want to say that i am also speaking to you as a professor specializing in development cooperation. this 0.7% target was set in 1970 as a decision of several states. this amount has been calculated as a method by which we can indeed combat poverty. i wanted to speak today, and i want to speak today, because i teach my students about the role of the european union in development cooperation and i tell them that the european union is the world's largest donor, with 55% of the world's donations, and they are proud to be europeans! i tell them our target is 0.7 percent and they are also proud of our target and that they are european. but when i tell them that we're not achieving that goal, unfortunately, they're not so proud. they're disappointed. i say this because i wish that i could leave here today and tell you that the european commission, the european council and we, the european parliament, are doing something to ensure that the european union's leadership in this area is maintained and that we are indeed acting for the poor. because poverty is not far from us, it is everywhere!
on behalf of the ppe group.– madam president, i think we can all agree that, following the economic crisis in europe, the bank has become an essential tool to restoring growth in europe. it helps us reach sustainable growth, improve our economy and make it more competitive, more crisis-resilient, knowledge-driven, and of course it is a tool for improving infrastructure in europe. first, the capital increase and now, in the future, through the european fund for strategic investments (efsi), these instruments have enhanced the bank’s role in ensuring investments in europe. the eib lending, coupled with structural reforms and fiscal consolidation in member states, will be an essential tool for restoring growth in europe. the bank will see its role and its responsibility increase in the near future through the entry into force of the efsi. we on the parliament side want to see the efsi become a success and are ready to play our role in that sense, but for the fund to reach its goals, the eib would definitely need additional human resources in order not to affect the existing operations of the bank. nevertheless, i must also draw attention to the fact that the current distribution of eib lending still indicates important discrepancies between member states. i agree that the best and economically most viable projects have to be supported but, on the other hand, i think the eib should also focus on investments, especially as regards infrastructure, in areas and regions that lag behind from this point of view. another point which i would like to raise is the external mandate of the eib. taking into account the recent developments in the eastern neighbourhood, i think countries in this region should benefit from extra lending within the current mandate of the bank, which is of course of geo-strategic importance for the union. that is why i support the activation of the additional eur 3 billion under the eu guarantee, following the mid-term review in 2016. thank you for your attention and your cooperation. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– the interpretation was hard to understand but, if i got the question right, on youth unemployment, of course it is up to the bank to decide in which projects they invest. i think they should invest in the economically most viable projects. my thought was also that, in order to fulfil the mission of the bank and reduce discrepancies in europe, including for social cohesion, the bank should maybe consider regions in which infrastructure is not yet up to the level of other countries and possibly also social indicators like employment, youth unemployment, and therefore, possibly, increased investment in regions which lag behind in those indicators.
madam president, considering the significant decline in public and private investment that has taken place in recent years, which severely affected european small and medium-sized enterprises, i welcome the fact that the report was adopted in the committee by a vast majority. it is indeed necessary to strike a new balance between better evaluation and the best possible investment, and to steer the economy towards a path of sustainable growth and a job-rich recovery. the report puts forward a set of recommendations on the operational methodology of the european investment bank in terms of how the eib should be ready to play its role under the investment package and of how investment needs to more specifically target the backbone of the european economy, namely small and medium-sized enterprises. the investment projects of the eib need to be increasingly aimed towards sustainable energy and climate change, as well as infrastructural investments which are important for jobs and growth.
madam president, i want to appreciate the rapporteur's work, even though i was not in the european parliament in 2013. but i can look at the effects of what the eib has done in the private sector, because they come from smes. let's not kid ourselves, it wasn't great effects. the indicators by which a bank is analysed do not always have corresponding effects in private life. i'm concerned about the principle of redistribution of the investment fund. the way in which funds are redistributed will have a positive or negative impact on the reduction of regional disparities, the development of smes and the social dimension. i do not believe in the technical procedure announced by president junker - the selection on purely technical criteria by six experts. perhaps you'll detail to us, mr. president, how you'll do it. i think the eib needs to be more flexible and take more risks than smes. if not, support for smes, reducing regional and social disparities will be just fine words, and we cannot talk about economic and monetary union. my final proposal is, however, that you meet more often with the committees of the european parliament.
in writing. against the backdrop of a good performance by the eib in 2013, i would like to stress that a stronger involvement of the eib, the european commission and the member states is needed to expand the use of financial instruments to finance economic and social objectives in the member states. it is very important to support the expansion of financing that combines european non-repayable funds with repayable funds and those that take the form of initial capital or capital increases. it is regrettable that many member states have not wanted to participate with part of the european cohesion funds allocated to them in the new facility set up within the eib which ensures the multiplication of the financing potential of these european funds with the help of financial instruments.
madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate my colleague, paolo de castro, on this initiative. the global context is worrying. the world's population is expected to exceed 9 billion by 2050. the demand for food will increase by 70%. resources are limited and climate change is taking its toll. the agricultural sector will have to meet the growing need of the population to be supplied with safe and sufficient food in a sustainable way. on the other hand, in the 21st century, a significant portion of the world's population cannot afford the basic food they need. this is why the european union needs to continue its support for countries hit by hunger. if in the developing world the number one problem is access to food, in the developed world the disease of our century is obesity, which is rampant. the european commission must become more seriously involved in the fight against obesity and the promotion of a healthy lifestyle.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure. mr president, you said that we should not be under any illusions that europe cannot help, that it cannot feed people on the planet from another part of the world. i ask you: do you think it is normal that europe does not show solidarity with other people in other parts of the globe?
madam president, throughout history, mankind has been concerned about food security, based on the fact that the right to food is a fundamental right and that this right is respected when people have physical and economic access, on a permanent basis, to adequate and safe food, in order to meet the needs for a healthy life. the 2015 milan expo is a good opportunity for the european union to continue the process of raising public awareness of the need to be constantly concerned about food security, food production and distribution, but above all about preventing food waste, all with the main objective of combating malnutrition. it is unacceptable that today, in the 21st century, people are starving and at the same time over 30% of the world's food is lost or wasted. last but not least, we must be constantly concerned with the development of agriculture, which also means identifying markets for european products, and ttip is certainly a good opportunity for agriculture in the european union.
madam president, the milan expo that will open its doors on 1 may deals with something that is one of the biggest challenges for today’s world: how to feed the increasingly growing population of the world in the years to come. i appreciate the fact that the main focus of this resolution is food security and how to tackle the threats that put food security at risk. being a member of the committee on development i am especially concerned with how the issues of land-grabbing, land loss and degradation will be dealt with in the future. i believe that in the upcoming decades we will have to deliver a global strategy that must include sustainability in farming systems and in global food production through sustainable small-scale farming, organic, high-nature value or tree-based agriculture, as well as better resource efficiency and increased crop diversity. i congratulate my colleague paolo de castro and the shadow rapporteurs for their outstanding work.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes)
we are impressed, mr tarabella.
madam president, the oral amendment proposes to split amendment no 5 into two paragraphs. the first would end after the formula to proceed with the conclusion and entry into force of the stabilisation and association agreement and the second paragraph should begin and here's the novelty with the formula welcomes the long-awaited entry into force of the saa set for 1 june 2015, which will allow bosnia and herzegovina to move forward in the eu integration process and open up the reform agenda for the benefit of the country. the rest of the amendment remains the same. i would like to take this opportunity to thank all my colleagues in the political groups for their cooperation.
madam president, i confess that i do not understand why my colleagues have opposed the fact that the association agreement will enter into force. it just seems absurd - but whatever! the amendment i am now proposing, after paragraph 21, concerns the recent terrorist attacks. i hope that on this point at least we can reach a consensus. i quote this amendment: strongly condemns the terrorist attack perpetrated on 27 april 2015 on a police station in the eastern bosnian town of zvornik, which claimed the life of one policeman and injured two others; expresses its solidarity with the victims and their families; condemns in the strongest terms the violent extremist ideology behind this attack; calls on the competent authorities, responsible security agencies and judicial institutions to cooperate in conducting a swift and thorough investigation and preventing future attacks; expresses hope that the institutions and citizens of bosnia and herzegovina will come together in combating the threat of terrorism and extremist violence.
we are working on it.
that concludes the vote.
the next item is the explanations of vote. we start with those that could not be taken yesterday.
oral explanations of vote
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ the problem of alcohol consumption is debated by specialists all over the world, and there is a lot of controversy around this topic. is moderate drinking healthy? if so, what does moderation mean? alcohol abuse among minors is also a serious and questionable problem. nearly 4 percent of all deaths worldwide have been attributed by who experts to excessive alcohol consumption. this is a worrying number, exceeding the number of deaths caused by hiv/aids and tuberculosis. furthermore, the figures show that alcohol abuse causes 3.3 million deaths annually, and the most alarming is that the group is 20-39 years old. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the 'alcohol strategy' because the current eu strategy needs to be renewed, as alcohol abuse is the second leading cause of lifestyle-related illness in some member states. in this context, the commission is invited to cooperate closely with the member states to develop a european action plan to reduce the harmful effects of alcohol consumption.
in writing. ‒ we all know that, in the european union, alcohol consumption is a major public health concern, responsible for a great number of diseases and deaths. we are in need, notably, of more education and awareness campaigns to promote healthy lifestyles and discourage binge drinking, and of enforcement laws on the sale of alcohol in order to protect minors and also to prevent the sale of very cheap alcohol. i support a european action plan that supports member states in implementing measurable, rigorous policy goals, while respecting the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. we need better information about alcohol abuse. the alcohol strategy would result in significant improvements in public health and also in reduced healthcare and social spending for the member states.
in writing. ‒ alcohol abuse is the second leading cause of lifestyle-related illness in some member states, and chronic alcohol consumption is a risk factor for more than 60 chronic diseases. i voted for this resolution because its text underlines the need to start the work of the commission on the eu alcohol strategy (2016 2020). it also calls on member states to implement policies and treatments to reduce alcohol dependence within their health systems.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to abstain from voting on the proposal for an alcohol strategy because i do not support all the ideas and proposals expressed in it. the socio-economic impact of such a strategy is very high and i believe it is imperative to evaluate the various possible strategies by looking at how they will have the expected results in relation to how they will affect member states' economies and the labour market. as regards the ideas expressed in this report, some of them raised questions for me, and as regards others i have doubts about the final results, which are the reasons why i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ alcohol production is an ancient european industry, and alcohol consumption is a part of european culture. but excessive use and abuse cause many public health problems and lead to huge costs for health and social care systems. alcohol is strongly linked to some cancers, heart disease, diabetes and liver disease. and the effects on individuals, families and society of people struggling with addiction can be devastating and costly. we need to have a common ambition to reduce alcohol-related harm, and a new alcohol strategy could work towards this goal. i am especially supportive of better labelling to warn about the dangers of drinking when pregnant. clear, objective information about alcohol should form part of a wider strategy to promote healthy lifestyles and preventive medicine in general.
in writing. ‒ i support the strategy to tackle the harmful effects of alcohol in the eu, as alcohol abuse causes millions of deaths every year, particularly among young people. the social and medical implications of excessive alcohol consumption oblige member states to improve measures to combat alcohol dependence and to better inform vulnerable groups about the risks. this is particularly the case for minors, and i appreciate the calls in the resolution for prevention and counselling campaigns, and for limiting alcohol advertising and restricting the sale of alcoholic beverages to minors. i would point out that a quarter of all road accidents are caused by alcohol consumption, which kills over 5 200 people a year. despite these efforts, drunk driving continues to be the second leading cause of road deaths in the eu. it is an additional argument for coordinated, cross-border action against major risks arising from insufficient prevention.
oral explanations of vote
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ in bangladesh, there are some 4 000 textile factories, employing over 3 million people, making bangladesh the world's second largest clothing producer after china. the rise in the price of labour in other parts of the world has led to the transfer of low-skilled labour to india, pakistan, cambodia, vietnam and, in particular, bangladesh. conditions in textile factories are often poor, with very little regard for workers' rights, such as those recognised by the main ilo conventions, and safety standards are either not respected or only to a limited extent. the european executive needs to continue to actively promote the obligation of responsible business conduct among eu companies operating abroad, with a particular focus on ensuring strict compliance with international standards and norms in the areas of human rights, labour and the environment. workers and trade unions have an important role to play in the continued development of worker-led safety committees in all factories, and the importance of trade union access to factories to be able to train workers on how to protect their rights and safety, including the right to refuse unsafe work.
in writing. ‒ the collapse of the rana plaza building was one of the deadliest tragedies in the history of the garment industry and one that served as an important wake-up call about the need for urgent reforms. following this tragedy the textile industry has been changed forever, and finally common goals have been established in relation to safety standards, workers’ safety and workers’ rights. i believe that the bangladesh sustainability compact is a fundamental step towards improved labour rights, working conditions and factory safety. it has the potential to avert another factory collapse through a more responsible management of the garment industry supply chain in bangladesh. we should encourage further efforts by the government of bangladesh to complete the relevant labour-law reform, to recruit and train labour inspectors and to create the conditions for meaningful freedom of association in the country. in commemoration of the anniversary of the tragedy it is important that we remember the victims and extend our deepest condolences to their families, with the hope that the sustainability compact will prevent any repeat of these dreadful events.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament, together with the government of bangladesh, launched on 8 july 2013 the 'sustainability pact for the continuous improvement of workers' rights and safety in the garment and knitwear factories in bangladesh' (the 'sustainability pact'), whereby bangladesh committed itself to take action to improve labour standards and working conditions in the garment sector on its territory. i signed and voted for this resolution because, by its text, it comes to hasten the implementation of the measures provided for in this pact.
in writing. i voted for the resolution tabled on the basis of the commission statement on the commemoration of the victims of the rana plaza and tazreen garment factory fires in bangladesh and on the progress made in the sustainability pact with that asian state. the resolution expresses meps' concern about the conditions under which thousands of bangladeshi people work in garment factories in the country. the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, calling on the eu to take action to combat the situation in the former yugoslavia. the resolution also welcomes the eu's initiative to bring together the government of bangladesh, eu, us and international labour organisation representatives to find solutions to improve working conditions and safety in factories in bangladesh.
oral explanations of vote
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ since the beginning of the year, more than 1 500 people have lost their lives trying to reach europe. the latest tragedy estimates no fewer than 900 people may have lost their lives after a fishing boat carrying a considerable number of migrants sank off the coast of libya. in this context, the eu and the member states should do everything possible to prevent further loss of life at sea. i would like to emphasise that it is necessary to provide the necessary resources to carry out search and rescue duties effectively and therefore to ensure their financing in an appropriate manner and under the coordination of frontex. i voted in favour of this report because it calls for closer coordination of eu and member state policies in tackling the root causes of migration, ensuring the protection of migrants' rights and ensuring safe and legal access to the european asylum system. at the same time, the european commission should inform the populations of third countries, in particular in the mena region, of the risks and dangers posed by illegal migration networks.
in writing. ‒ this year alone, 36,000 people have tried to cross the mediterranean sea to seek refuge in europe, and over 1,700 have lost their lives. migration is a global and complex phenomenon that requires a long-term approach addressing its root causes, such as poverty, inequalities, injustice and armed conflict. the eu, its member states and the international community must find political and lasting solutions for countries in conflict and strengthen political dialogue to help local communities and boost the social and democratic development of their countries of origin and their peoples. asylum is a fundamental human right guaranteed by international law and obligations and is binding on all member states. it is therefore very important that the common european asylum system is transposed rapidly and fully and applied effectively by all participating member states in order to ensure common european standards in accordance with the legislation in force. i welcome the meeting of european leaders at which it was decided to increase the funds allocated to patrols in the mediterranean. the budget of the eu patrol mission 'triton' will thus amount to eur 120 million. they also support plans for possible military action against networks of smugglers of illegal immigrants.
in writing. ‒ given that migration is a global and complex phenomenon that requires a long-term strategy to address its root causes such as poverty, inequalities, injustice and armed conflict, i believe that member states and the international community must contribute to finding sustainable political solutions in countries in conflict and strengthen political dialogue, which includes all human rights elements, to support inclusive and democratic institutions, to strengthen the resilience of local communities and to promote social and democratic development in the countries of origin and among their populations.
in writing. ‒ it is clear that if we do not act now we will bear the responsibility before future generations for these tragedies. we can no longer afford not to tackle this issue seriously: we must implement an effective strategy to save the lives of these people. right now, only those who have money and are strong enough to escape from wars and poverty have a chance to reach the shores of europe, safely but illegally. the weak, the poor and the families with children are left behind in harm’s way. and this is primarily due to our hypocritical barriers that prevent asylum seekers and refugees from saving their lives in a better world. we must take urgent action now to confront these crises and conflicts.
in writing. ‒ i signed and voted for this resolution because, through its text, it reiterates the importance of the concrete involvement of the european union and the member states in resolving the latest tragedies that have occurred in the mediterranean sea. the resolution also stresses the need for a fair sharing of responsibility between member states, showing solidarity with those countries that have to take in the largest number of refugees and asylum seekers.
in writing. ‒ the european union is a land of hope for millions of people around the world. the european parliament must take a more prominent role in defining the european migration strategy. in this regard, i believe we need to demand a more active approach in european legislation, which brings about real changes both in the causes of the phenomenon of illegal migration and in the effects that shock the international community. solidarity can stop the tragic events which have unfortunately been repeated for too long in the mediterranean. the protection of refugees, as well as the inclusion of the north african states in eu aid and government assistance plans, must now become a priority, before we are again helplessly witnessing other maritime tragedies that lead to enormous loss of human life.
oral explanations of vote
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ i welcome the fact that, through this report, the s&d group has taken the lead on granting trade preferences to western balkan countries to support their socioeconomic development and underpin their european trajectory. while it is true that the trade between croatia and bosnia and herzegovina covered tariff lines not previously included in the interim agreement, the inclusion in the adapted agreement would come with quotas set at the limit of the amount of traditional trade with croatia. another reason why i voted in favour is that the proposal includes human rights as a conditionality in the autonomous trade measures, something which has been a key demand from the s&d group in the past. in the human rights clause we succeeded in defending a reference to core labour rights.
in writing. ‒ the european union was the most important partner for the balkan region in 2013, both in terms of exports and imports. i voted for this resolution because its text underlines the need for respect for the principles of democracy, the rule of law and human rights in these countries, as they seek to make progress in the process of joining the european union. the resolution also confirms the eu's commitment to the future european integration of the countries and territories covered by this regulation by granting unilateral trade preferences.
oral explanations of vote
madam president, i have tabled an explanation of vote because i want to say that i supported the version of the resolution tabled by my group, the ppe, primarily because i believe that the unapproved version of the ppe expressed more clearly the problem connected with the massacre in kenya, namely the problem of the liquidation of the huge christian communities in the middle east and in parts of africa. their enormous persecution and unfortunately massacre. i think it's fair to say that what was behind the massive massacre of students in kenya was not a single tragic event, but that it is connected to a global problem, where muslim extremists are persecuting and murdering christians in this way. last year, there were 150,000 victims.
madam president, when al-shabaab militants raided garissa university, christians were singled out to be executed. the al-qaeda affiliated group has portrayed itself over the past years as fighting a holy war against christians, even though its actions in somalia have killed mostly muslims. al-shabaab, in an extremely gruesome way, is trying to compete with isis in killing civilians and especially christians. the dynamics of both groups display many similarities, whereby ethnic and religious differences are exploited to further create instability in the region and seize control over resources. what if al-shabaab and isis decide to collaborate? it is often stated that these terrorist groups are ‘just a bunch of disorganised bandits’, but how many more atrocities and casualties are to be expected before there is a meaningful, targeted action that will end in misery for many? ms mogherini stated that the eu’s solidarity with kenya and iraq is assured, but this needs to translate into concrete measures that have tangible effects when it comes to security.
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ the globalization of persecution against christians is a phenomenon that is continually worsening and expanding geographically. the main threat facing the christian population is islamic extremism. among the countries experiencing a phenomenon of deep islamic radicalization and where christians are subject to violence are kenya, nigeria, iraq, syria, the central african republic, sudan and pakistan. in this context, we are talking about the attack in kenya, where 147 students were victims of an attack by the terrorist group al-shabaab. this attack exposes the vulnerability of the people to groups formed to unjustifiably induce global terror. such attacks, of particular gravity and without any justification, further strengthen our commitment to combat international terrorism and extremism. the events in kenya are a wake-up call for world peace and for counter-terrorism organizations. taking into account that in 2014, some 4,344 christians were killed because of their religion, twice as many as in 2013 (2123 victims), we voted in favour of this resolution to ensure the security and integrity of christendom.
in writing. ‒ the attack on garissa university in northern kenya, which left 148 dead and 79 wounded, was carried out by members of the al-qaida-affiliated al-shabaab terrorist group, and targeted students who were not muslim. we have a duty to support kenya in the fight against all forms of terrorism. religious freedom is a fundamental component of human rights and we strongly condemn these terrorist attacks. the eu must provide kenya with the financial, logistical and expertise support it needs to effectively combat terrorist groups. the european commission and the eeas must be part of the internationally coordinated efforts to combat radicalisation and terrorist financing in the world - a global threat requires a global response.
in writing. ‒ the lives of human beings in societies devastated by wars, poverty and ignorance seem to have lost their value, and nightmares like the dreadful massacre at garissa have become reality. it seems that, in the last 10 years, terrorist attacks against schools and universities have become a recurring tactic of global terrorism. this is obviously not a coincidence: terrorists hate education and instruction, probably because some of them have been excluded from it. that is why, if we want to tackle the root causes of terrorism, we must focus on addressing the conditions that make these extremist groups attractive to younger people. these conditions include underdevelopment due to a lack of public and private investment; institutional, economic, social and political discrimination against minorities; brutal repression; and violations of human rights. rebellion against government and adherence to extremist groups is often connected to poverty, extremely high unemployment rates and a general sense of insecurity. i believe that, if we want to fight the menace of al shabaab and other terrorist groups effectively, it is important to cooperate with countries affected by terrorism in order to improve their security strategies. and i would also reiterate the importance of social inclusion processes.
in writing. ‒ the latest terrorist attack in kenya unfortunately targeted young people, students and through them, obviously, the education and training of this people. the terrorist group al-shabaab has regularly targeted youth, students, schools and other educational institutions in kenya, somalia and uganda, making it one of the most dangerous in the world. we have signed and voted on this resolution because it comes to condemn these terrorist acts in the strongest possible terms, while stressing the need for action. one of these calls for the eu to implement a programme of military training missions in kenya and to provide modern equipment, working with and training kenyan military and police forces to combat terrorism and prevent the expansion of al-shabaab.
in writing. ‒ the world these days is facing a new kind of menace, one that does not just threaten lives but is harmful to culture and education. these fanatics seek to throw us back into the dark ages, to return to times best forgotten. i have voted in favour of this resolution because i firmly believe in our need to stand up to them. the european union, which in truth is a beacon of democracy, freedom, education and culture in comparison with the rest of the world, should do more to protect others seeking a better life, especially youth and students in third countries. i do hope we will find ways to help the survivors of these attacks, and my heart goes out to the families of the victims!
in writing. ‒ the european union has a duty to act urgently and firmly in defence of christians who are being barbarously persecuted in the vicinity of the eu's borders and increasingly threatened, even within the territory of the member states. it is a brutal attack on religious freedom, the spirit of tolerance and the values that underpin the democratic world. over 150,000 christians fall victim each year to religious islamist terrorism in an alarming offensive that requires a coordinated response. the abominable massacres, the kidnappings, the devastated churches, the exodus from the middle east and africa regions, the attacks on schools and universities, as in the case of the attack on kenyan students are means of religious purification incompatible with human civilization of the 21st century. beyond protests, i believe that european states have an obligation to take concrete action to defend those targeted by jihadist terrorism: from combating radical propaganda and the financing of international terrorism, to intensifying efforts to stop the islamic state offensive in a growing perimeter of unleashed terror, stretching from niger to afghanistan, with the core in iraq and syria. all these targeted states need to be effectively supported in the face of the growing threat from extremist groups, as part of a comprehensive strategy to counter the global islamist threat.
oral explanations of vote
madam president, the islamic state has deliberately demolished heritage sites in the middle east to erase thousands of years of multicultural and multi-linguistic existence. at greatest risk today is the survival of the syrian christian and yazidi minorities. the destruction of their religious and historical patrimony works in tandem with the direct physical violence against these communities. their historical presence is being systematically wiped out, as cultural heritage is intertwined with both identity and territory. according to the protocols of the 1954 hague convention and the principles of the geneva convention, the deliberate destruction of cultural patrimony is a war crime. unesco and ban ki-moon have condemned these acts as such. parliament should also denounce the destruction of cultural patrimony as a war crime, and urge the international community to develop a renewed protocol for the protection of cultural heritage in times of war.
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ under the rome statute, the founding act of the international criminal court, the deliberate destruction of cultural heritage constitutes a war crime. numerous archaeological, religious and cultural sites in syria, iraq and tunisia have recently been subjected to sporadic destruction by extremist groups linked in particular to the islamic state in iraq and syria (isis/da'esh). these systematic attacks on cultural heritage have been described by unesco director-general irina bokova as 'ethnic cleansing'. furthermore, it is worrying that the jihadist group islamic state (is) is destroying historical sites in iraq and selling antiquities to fund itself, as experts and diplomats said during a unesco colloquium on iraq's endangered heritage. i voted in favour of this resolution because it strongly condemns these acts of destruction of cultural, archaeological and religious sites by isis in syria and iraq, and calls on those member states that have not yet done so to ratify the unesco convention on the means of prohibiting and preventing the illicit import, export and transfer of ownership of cultural property of 1970 and the unidroit convention of 1995.
in writing. ‒ as a result of the violence that has and is taking place in the region, numerous archaeological, religious and cultural sites in syria, iraq and tunisia have been targeted by the terrorist group islamic state in iraq and syria (isis/da'esh). these systematic attacks on cultural heritage have been defined as 'cultural cleansing'. the european commission must establish a rapid and effective exchange of information, an exchange of good practices between member states to effectively combat the illicit trade in cultural objects that have been illegally removed from iraq and syria.
in writing. ‒ in the joint communication to the european parliament and the council of 6 february 2015 entitled 'elements for an eu regional strategy for syria and iraq and the daesh threat', the commission and the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy recognised the seriousness of the destruction and looting of cultural heritage in the context of the crises in syria and iraq and the threat posed by daesh. i signed and voted for this resolution because it comes with concrete measures to support and restore this cultural heritage.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution and i should think every elected member of this house has done the same. it is an unbelievably sad loss, what is going on in the isis-controlled territories – loss of lives, of culture and world heritage – and it is a proof that fanaticism is toxic to the very nature of human culture. we should step up our efforts to fight against this group and to restore to the people of iraq and syria a semblance of normality in their daily lives.
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ political tension is rising in the maldives, with regular protests and clashes between protesters and police. at least 140 protesters were arrested in february, and many of them were restricted from taking part in other demonstrations. violence against peaceful protesters must stop, security forces have a duty to protect peaceful demonstrators from violent gangs, and perpetrators of such violent attacks must be brought to justice. it is very important to ensure a credible political climate, with the participation of all democratic forces, in order to restore order and maintain stability in the maldives. political interference in the judiciary must also be stopped and it is essential that urgent reforms are approved and implemented to ensure the independence and impartiality of the judiciary. the european commission, through the eu's european external action service, should continue to monitor the political situation in the maldives and play an active role in the eu's bilateral relations with the country, in order to contribute to the achievement of stability and the consolidation of democracy and the rule of law, and to advocate for the full respect of human rights and fundamental freedoms in the country.
in writing. ‒ it is clear that the maldives are no longer just a paradise for tourists. they have become a place where there is increasing danger posed by fundamentalists, by an inefficient and politicised judiciary and by an erosion of human rights and democratic principles. the ‘show trial’ of former president mohamed nasheed is the demonstration of this dysfunctional state of democracy. this so-called trial fails to respect the basic principles of a fair trial and goes against the maldivian constitution. we have always been at the forefront in our commitment to and support for consolidating democracy, promoting good governance, strengthening key institutions and helping the maldives to address social, environmental and transnational challenges. it is important that we continue to play a role in the country’s democratic transition by firmly calling for an end to violence against peaceful protesters and by ensuring that mr nasheed’s rights are fully respected in accordance with the maldives’ international obligations and standards.
in writing. ‒ the situation of the rule of law, the independence of the judiciary in the maldives is deficient. the arrest of a criminal court judge without a valid reason is a striking example, coupled with the frequent intimidation of opposition politicians, highlighted by a recent report by the inter-parliamentary union's parliamentarians' rights commission, which ranked the maldives among the top countries in the world for attacks, torture and intimidation of opposition mps. i have signed and voted for this resolution because, through the amendments included, it comes with some concrete measures that it proposes to the maldivian authorities, in order to address the issues of non-respect of the rule of law.
oral explanations of vote
in the current tense security situation, with the phenomena in europe reminiscent of the cold war, we must not only preserve the unity of the european union but also ensure that european integration remains attractive. this is particularly true for the western balkan countries, which have been preparing for integration for many years, have met some of the conditions and want to see a clear perspective and a strong intention to join. of course, albania still has to make clear and irreversible progress in many areas in meeting the accession criteria, particularly in the application of democratic rules. it is important to give new impetus to the enlargement process, because europe will never be complete without the accession of the western balkan countries.
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ i strongly support the european integration process for albania. i welcome the good progress achieved so far and i would encourage further efforts and tangible results. i believe that the opening of accession negotiations with albania will constitute a major incentive for the country to accelerate the necessary efforts on public administration reform and reform of the judiciary, in the fight against corruption and organised crime and in enhancing the protection of fundamental rights. the success of the reform process depends on the existence of a democratic political environment. to secure the sustainability of the integration process, all political parties need to cooperate and work constructively together. moreover, i believe that ensuring political consensus and developing a genuine democratic dialogue are elements of the utmost importance. i would like to thank and praise the rapporteur, knut fleckenstein, and the shadow rapporteurs for the great job they have done.
in writing. ‒ we have to show strong support for albania’s european integration process. we have to recognise the country’s achievements and encourage it to consolidate the reforms. the opening of the accession negotiations will constitute a major incentive towards achieving these aims.
in writing. ‒ in june 2014, albania acquired the status of candidate country to the european union. i signed and voted for this resolution because it welcomes the efforts this country is making to strengthen the rule of law, reform the judiciary, fight organized crime and corruption. the text also highlights the vulnerabilities of the country and the measures that should be taken further.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i know how important it is for countries in the western balkans to keep receiving our positive signals, especially if they are balanced by adequate reports on still more needed reforms. albania has come a long way in the past years and, while i believe the road for integration is still long, i believe this country needs europe, quite a lot and we should not abandon it.
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ i support the european union’s renewed approach to bosnia and herzegovina (bih). the report calls for the revitalisation of the reform process, underlining the need for political commitment and genuine ownership. it urges political leaders to refrain from divisive nationalistic and secessionist rhetoric that polarises society, and it calls for the efficient implementation of the written commitment to eu integration. it stresses that addressing citizens’ socioeconomic needs – as manifested in the social protests of last year – must be the priority. it also emphasises that bih will not be a successful candidate for eu membership until appropriate institutional conditions have been established, and it calls for constitutional reform to make it an inclusive, effective and fully functional state. i am especially pleased that the matters raised in the amendments proposed by my group, the socialists and democrats, regarding the inclusion of social and human rights issues, are satisfactorily covered. this is a new opportunity for resumption of the eu reform process and for improvement in the social and economic situation in the country, and it must not be lost. ensuring a better life for each and every citizen needs to be the priority for the political elites in bih and within the european integration process.
in writing. ‒ we have to support fully bosnia and herzegovina’s european prospects. this represents a opportunity to resume the eu reform process and improve the social and economic situation in the country. it is important that improvement is further maintained, and i am sure the country will achieve clear and sustainable results in these fields in the near future.
in writing. ‒ the european union has provided a new opportunity for bosnia and herzegovina (bih) to help the country to resume its reform process, improve its social and economic situation and move closer to the european union. i voted and signed this resolution because, through its text, it reminds bih that respect for the rule of law, the independence of the judiciary, the fight against corruption and 'a professional, effective and merit-based public administration are a cornerstone of the integration process for bih and for any country aspiring to become a member state of the european union'.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the progress report on bosnia and herzegovina because it is a balanced report. i believe that bih has made some progress, but there are still many problems to be solved before it can be considered as being truly ready to become a member of the eu. there are still problems with democracy, justice and, above all, socio-economic problems, but all of these can be solved if bih continues its european path and commits to it. in this respect, i believe that the report encourages this process, but it also draws attention to the problems that still exist, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ bosnia and herzegovina is undoubtedly one of the countries with the most complex systems of public administration in the world, but i would like to remind you that this was enshrined in the 1995 dayton peace agreement, which ended the war in bosnia. it is possible to criticize the performance of the bosnian, croatian and serbian politicians, but it would be an illusion to expect the european union to define everyone in bosnia and herzegovina as bosnian, not bosnian, croatian or serbian, that is to say, to completely overturn the model based on the cooperation of the three constituent peoples. i disagree with the statement in the motion for a resolution that 'ethnocentric attitudes are hindering the progress of the country'. the problem is not ethnocentrism - ethnocentrism cannot be avoided in a multiethnic state - but the efficiency of the state's functioning, which can and should be improved. i also welcome the fact that the motion stresses the importance of a common, objective study of history. i am convinced that this should be a practice for many eu member states to follow.
oral explanations of vote
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ the eu 2020 strategy sets ambitious targets for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth by boosting competitiveness, job creation and sustainable investment. the eib provides effective financial instruments that contribute to the implementation of public sector investments, with the expertise to deliver projects with significant economic added value and measurable social impact. the decline in public and private investment in recent years requires measures to attract private financing to public investment. i am convinced that the presence of private capital in public investment leads to increased accountability of spending and the juncker plan will have the capacity to guarantee private investment in the public domain. i believe that eib investments should take into account the level of development of the regions, and i therefore voted in favour of this report, as i am convinced that the priority of investments must also take into account the economic and social context of the place where they are carried out.
in writing. ‒ considering the significant decline in public and private investment that severely affected european smes, i welcome the fact that the report was adopted in committee by a huge majority. it is indeed necessary to strike a new balance between better evaluation and the best possible investment, and to steer the economy towards a path of sustainable growth and a job-rich recovery. the report puts forward a set of recommendations on the european investment bank’s operational methodology, in terms of how the bank should be ready to play its role in relation to the investment package, how investment needs to target more specifically the backbone of the european economy, namely smes, and how eib investment projects should be increasingly aimed towards sustainable energy and climate change, as well as infrastructure investments important for jobs and growth. i also appreciated the fact that there is a lot of emphasis on the need for the eib to become more transparent and accountable. considering how these recommendations can have a very positive impact on smes and on the european economy in general, i would like to state my support for the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european investment bank’s annual report, which has many good recommendations. the eib has a crucial role in the european economy. the report rightly underlines that investment needs to target more specifically the backbone of the european economy, namely smes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the 2013 european investment bank annual report. the report pays significant attention to the commission proposal to establish the european fund for strategic investments (efsi), as the eib is one of the decisive players in ensuring its efficiency. the success of the efsi is of paramount importance for sustainable growth and job creation in europe. therefore, it is important that the eib should continue to play the important role of catalyst for financing sound public and private long-term investments, while carrying on with implementing best prudential banking practices in order to maintain its very strong capital position. the report provides relevant input in that direction.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution because it underlines the need to implement some very necessary and indeed very urgent measures with regard to the future of the european investment bank. more specifically, the commission's investment plan is expected to encourage and facilitate access to finance for member states and regions with high levels of unemployment and gdp per capita below the eu average. the resolution recalls that it is essential for the eib to cooperate with european funds, especially in these member states and regions, so that productive public investment and key infrastructure projects can be realised. the resolution also considers that priority should be given to projects with a european added value and a positive cost-benefit analysis.
in writing. ‒ i support the resolution on the annual report of the european investment bank, in particular because of the significant role of the eib in the current economic context, through the european fund for strategic investments. considers it necessary, in this regard, to focus efforts and resources on improving access to finance for the eu member states most affected by unemployment and declining economic growth. in particular in countries that have recently joined the union, boosting public investment in sustainable infrastructure projects can help create new jobs. cooperation between the eib, the national banks and the european commission must therefore focus on reducing development disparities between the member states of the union as a factor of cohesion and a stimulus to economic competitiveness. i also believe that special attention should be paid to small and medium-sized enterprises, which have unfortunately been affected by the reduction of more than one third of loans between 2008 and 2013. facilitating access to favourable financing conditions and public tenders for smes can help to reduce unemployment, including among young people - the age group most affected by the crisis.
oral explanations of vote
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ expo milano, which will open its doors on 1 may, deals with a theme that is one of the biggest challenges for today’s world: how to feed the increasingly growing world population in the years to come. i appreciate the fact that the main focus of this resolution is food security and how to tackle the threats that put food security at risk. being a member of the committee on development, i am especially concerned with how the issues of land grabbing, land loss and degradation will be dealt with in the future. i believe that, in the coming decades, we will have to deliver a global strategy that must include sustainability in farming systems and in global food production through sustainable small-scale farming, organic, high-natural-value or tree-based agriculture, as well as better resource efficiency and increased crop diversity. i congratulate my colleague paolo de castro on an outstanding job.
in writing. ‒ i voted and signed this resolution because, through the amendments tabled, it urges the commission and the member states to take advantage of the expo milano 2015 theme feeding the planet, energy for life to make commitments on respecting the right to adequate, healthy and sustainable food consumption. it also underlines that 'the fight against undernutrition and ensuring universal access to adequate nutritious food should remain one of the key objectives of the post-2015 agenda for the elimination of hunger', with the main objective of eradicating malnutrition by 2030.
oral explanations of vote
madam president, how does one rebuild a society where violence has become part of everyday life? how does a country overcome structural problems such as poverty, systemic corruption and severe human and minority rights violations? nigeria has one of the largest populations of young people and is one of the most ethnically diverse countries in africa. the country is regionally divided between christians and muslims. the violence, after the 2011 elections and the boko haram killing sprees, further contributed to the instability of the country. in short: all ingredients are there for a potential new civil war. the european union trades with nigeria, mainly for oil and gas, and in return we provide development aid. but i would like to see the eu engage more with nigeria in long-term projects that aim at overcoming these structural issues. i believe herein lies the real key for stability and prosperity.
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ the recent elections in nigeria saw the victory of the nigerian opposition leader, muhammadu buhari, a former governor, minister of petroleum and natural resources and head of the supreme military council. he became the sixth president of the federal republic of nigeria. as he stated during the campaign, he will have to take firm action against the boko haram terrorist group. boko haram has killed more than 7,300 civilians in nigeria and neighboring countries since the beginning of 2014, including 1,000 this year alone, bringing the death toll from 2009 to today to an alarming 15,000, a united nations official said earlier this month. i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in nigeria, as it calls for urgent action on the nearly 300 abducted girls from chibok, of whom only a few have managed to escape, and the nigerian government and authorities, together with the african union peace and security council, must do everything possible to rescue those abducted girls and to fight against terrorist groups through concrete action in the sahel region.
in writing. ‒ although not enjoying the same media coverage as is, the extremist group boko haram in nigeria has killed between 10 500 and 18 000 people in the last four years, making it the most dangerous terrorist organisation in the world, with a murder rate far higher than is (around 6 000). the violence committed by the islamist group boko haram in northeastern nigeria has also caused severe food crises, making it very difficult for humanitarian activists to reach the affected population. the humanitarian needs in nigeria are enormous and, for this year, they amount to 922 million euros. the eu and its member states must deliver on their commitment to provide political, humanitarian and development support to nigeria and its citizens in countering the boko haram threat and ensuring the development of the country. it is important that the new nigerian authorities adopt a roadmap on social and economic development, address poverty and inequality, and promote the equitable distribution of oil revenues in the context of decentralisation, as they are a cause of violence.
in writing. ‒ terrorism is a global threat but the global community’s efforts to do more against boko haram in nigeria depended to some degree on the full measure of credibility, accountability and transparency of the elections there. the electoral process was welcomed by international observers and it is now a national, regional and global responsibility to put all existing resources to use to bring an end to boko haram. education, women’s rights, social justice and a fair distribution of state revenues in society, as well as the fight against corruption, must be at the forefront of the newly elected president’s political action, for they are key to fighting fundamentalism, violence and intolerance. the international community, including the eu, must provide the necessary support to the nigerian government, as the stability of the country is crucial for the whole region, the continent and, globally, the whole world. i therefore voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ nigeria is the most populous and ethnically diverse country in africa. it also presents important regional and religious divisions, and is marked by a north-south divide characterised by severe economic and social disparities, with a young and fragile democracy shaken by acts of terrorism and extremism. i signed and voted for this resolution because, by its text, it introduces a series of measures that should be taken to support this state in the fight against terrorism and poverty, but also to support its economic development and to ensure a decent living for its inhabitants.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the events in nigeria because i consider the atrocities committed by boko haram unacceptable. i think that the european parliament and the eu must react and condemn atrocities like suicide attacks in which children are used. i support this resolution, which calls on the government authorities to intervene promptly against terrorists by adopting measures to help educate the population and combat poverty and corruption.
author. mr president, i would first like to express my satisfaction that we can finally debate and then vote on a resolution on the case of nadia savchenko today. this is the third time our political group has put this subject forward for emergency resolutions. twice, the socialists blocked discussion of savchenko's case in the european parliament, presumably to avoid strong and well-founded criticism of moscow and its relationship to the war in ukraine. indeed, the savchenko case shows us russia's duplicity in the war that is going on in the vicinity of the european union. russia is holding, investigating, and recently charging nadia savchenko, who was captured in eastern ukraine while fighting pro-russian separatists. even though savchenko is in moscow's prisons, russia doesn't consider itself part of this war. moreover, the february minsk agreements, to which russia is a signatory, provide for the release of all prisoners captured in the war that has been going on for more than a year in ukraine. despite russia's promise to release nadia savchenko, this has not happened. last week, on april 24, the investigative committee finalized a list of charges against nadia savchenko. russia is therefore behaving in a double way: it is part of the war in ukraine, without admitting it, it claims to support the minsk agreements, but it is doing the opposite of what is stipulated in these agreements, and nadiya savchenko is caught in this double game of moscow. we call on vladimir putin to release both savchenko and the other prisoners of the ukrainian conflict, whom he illegally holds in russian prisons. (the president agreed to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". mr president, dear marc tarabella, there are moments that should not be missed. i do believe that postponing the debate on savchenko twice is a mistake which the s&d group must take on board. the s&d group has refused to put on the european parliament's agenda a subject which is being debated by all public opinion in europe and which they want to understand. we have not taken a position so far and i... (the president withdrew the floor)
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, nadiya savchenko was a military pilot and a member of the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe. in june 2014, nadiya was captured by the russians and illegally transferred to the russian federation. according to the geneva convention, she is a prisoner of war. nadiya cannot be criminally investigated because her case falls under the applicable law in case of war, ius in bellum, and must be investigated by an independent tribunal, not by the russians. nadiya savchenko has been on a hunger strike for three months protesting her illegal arrest. her health is getting worse by the day! we demand her immediate release! we call on russia to respect its international immunity as a member of the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe, and we call on russia to respect its international commitments. of course, we don't think russia will abide by them. we saw the russian federation have no respect for the law, we saw how they invaded eastern ukraine. little has no respect for the law, no respect for life, no respect for anyone or anything. he's just hungry for power and wants to become the second world power. question: why does putin need another victim in the collection of those already killed, tortured, kidnapped, imprisoned?
mr president, we all know what happened in eastern europe recently: russia seized crimea. russia also supported, and continues to support, the separatists from eastern ukraine, in each and every case breaking and not respecting international law and treaties that russia previously signed. how is it possible in the 21st century to have a situation in which a country that we were cooperating with, a country that is so involved in international affairs and which is a member of the security council of the united nations, does not respect international law? now a ukrainian citizen, who like us is also a parliamentarian – a parliamentarian of the council of europe – was seized and taken prisoner by the russian federation. it seems that we have to appeal to the united nations, or some other organisation, in order for nadiya savchenko to be set free.
author. mr president, i would first like to thank all the colleagues who have been involved in the drafting of this resolution and to underline that the final document reflects the common view of all parliamentary groups on the gravity and urgency of the situation in the yarmouk refugee camp. i want to welcome the allocation by the european commission of 2.5 million euros, which directly and immediately contributed to saving lives. it is imperative that the european union and the member states increase their financial efforts to provide the funds needed by the un refugee agency, and on this occasion i would like to salute the agency and congratulate it on the extraordinary work it is doing. i strongly condemn the atrocities committed against the civilians in yarmouk. i believe we have an obligation not to stand by and take urgent action to ensure the safety of civilians and their right to a better life. this refugee camp is neutral and this neutrality must be respected by ensuring the protection of civilian lives, especially the most vulnerable among them, women and children, and by ensuring access to the camp to provide humanitarian support to refugees. i welcome the announced talks in geneva and hope that they will lead as soon as possible to a sustainable solution to end the conflict. i also believe that the european union must take the diplomatic and political initiative in the effort to stabilise the area and end the armed conflict.
mr president, the people who remain in the yarmouk refugee camp are, as ban ki-moon described it, in the ‘deepest circle of hell’ resulting from syria’s four-year-long civil war. it is almost unimaginable what these people have gone through prior to april 2015, but what is taking place now in yarmouk is gruesome. it is also symptomatic of the complexity of the conflict in the region, as these people are caught between the al-nusra front, the syrian army, isis and many more violent groups and actors. the european union provided emergency funding to the united nations relief and works agency for palestinian refugees (unrwa) at the beginning of april. i would hereby like to call on the european union and the commission’s humanitarian aid and civil protection department (echo) to develop special measures that are aimed at supporting the most vulnerable groups in conflict-ridden societies: children, women, elderly people, disabled people and ethnic and religious minorities.
in writing.– syria’s bloody conflict has killed 200 000 people so far. in addition, the life of thousands of civilians from the yarmouk camp is threatened because of the fighting between the syrian government and is militants. the eu recently imposed a travel ban and an eu asset freeze on 7 persons who provide money to the syrian regime, but this is not enough. i call upon the eu to totally isolate and defeat the is militants as a terrorist organisation by completely cutting their funds by imposing additional eu asset freezes. i encourage the eu to create an autonomous sanctions regime to supplement the un al-qaeda sanction regime. the only way to help syria’s citizens is to seek international consensus at the level of the unsc and to provide support for a syrian-led political process leading to peace in accordance with the geneva communiqué of 30 june 2012. i therefore urge syria to immediately implement the unsc resolution 2139/2014. i welcome eu’s financial efforts to provide humanitarian aid to the region, especially because the eu has been the leading international donor in response to the syrian crisis with more than eur 3.3 billion.
mr president, i do not at all approve of the idea of moving the emergency services to the morning for two reasons. first of all, we can work very well on thursday afternoons. i don't see why we'd only work three days and not four full days. secondly, it is a tradition in this parliament to deal with emergencies in the afternoon. i'd like to point out that when emergencies are dealt with in the afternoon, there are more people than when they are scheduled in the morning. i am therefore totally against the proposal which was put forward earlier.
blue-card question.– mrs kappel, considering the manipulations that took place on the markets – and there were a lot of them, by big financial institutions including big banks – and that in the end we leave the critical indicators to be established by each and every state, do you not think that the european union should have to impose these critical indicators on all the financial institutions in all the european union countries?
mr president, the european union has been and is concerned with economic stability in general, but particularly with the stability and smooth functioning of financial and commodity markets. in this respect, the financial instruments used to conclude the various financial contracts should benefit from clear but, above all, predictable legislation. however, we would point out that benchmarks can be a means of manipulating markets, which makes it necessary to identify mechanisms and measures to prevent this, so that we do not have to deal with a distortion of these realities. rapid market developments should prompt the responsible factors to strike a balance between the need for transparency and the user's ability to impose discipline, with the major objective of discouraging the manipulation of benchmarks. in this respect it is particularly important to take into account that different markets and economic realities always generate different types of benchmarks. the european union needs to find mechanisms to regulate benchmarks when they have an effect in more than one member state, but leaves those mechanisms to the discretion of the national states when they only occur at national level. in this regard, we need to consider increasing governance standards and systems, as well as increasing transparency, giving everyone the opportunity to make informed decisions. only in this way can we talk about fair competition for all administrators, both those at the level of the european union and those at the level of third countries.
mr president, i welcome the fact that in this report the s&d group has managed to ensure a fair balance of requirements between critical and non-critical benchmarks, as well as the inclusion of commodity benchmarks. therefore, as i mentioned before, i truly oppose the fact that critical benchmarks are left to be established by each and every member state of the european union. at the same time, i believe it is very important that a european legislative framework is going to be established in order to avoid the scandals and the market abuses that took place in the past. i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for the good balance reached in the text at the end.
member of the commission.– mr president, thanks to all the members for the contributions they have made to what has been an excellent debate. first of all, there is clearly a lot of agreement: there is agreement on the need for us to take action to stop the kind of manipulation that we have seen too often in the past; there is agreement on the importance of transparency, and on the importance of better governance; agreement on the need to have better regulation and better supervision; and agreement that the rapporteur has come up with a good framework – although i recognise that some want to go further in some respects, whether on the question of supervision or on the definition of non-critical benchmarks. having listened to the debate, i am sure that we will find suitable common ground to make rapid progress on this file. that would be good for consumers, it would be good for investors, it would be good for confidence in markets and it would therefore be good for financial stability. i think that we need these safeguards in place as soon as possible. a number of honourable members have talked about the length of time it has taken to get where we are now. now we have an opportunity to take this proposal forward with the wind in our sails that i believe we have. that will help us ensure that robust benchmarks are used in eu markets to take action against manipulation and to prevent any failure of critical benchmarks. so i, on behalf of the commission, would very much like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for all their hard work, which i think has been successful in moving forward with this legislation, and i very much look forward to a constructive set of negotiations in the trilogue and, i hope, a swift resolution to an issue that needs to be gripped.
in writing. in recent years we have learned about the irresponsibility of banks and other financial institutions, which was the root cause of the financial crisis. but i was also surprised to find that some banks even manipulated a series of indices (libor), used as a benchmark in determining the cost of credit agreements and other financial instruments such as, for example, home loans. the outrage at such manipulation cannot be measured. it's way too big. we therefore welcome this report which comes to ensure the accuracy and integrity of the process of establishing these indices. it will ensure greater transparency for this process, prevent conflicts of interest and improve governance.
blue-card question.– mr gill, as you know, most of the official development assistance goes in some years to countries from asia and africa that are members of the commonwealth. do you know that the uk plays a very important role within that organisation? do you intend to decrease the role of your country, considering the support given to commonwealth states, given what you said this evening? do you not think that the uk should have to maintain its role as a leader of the commonwealth, supporting all those countries which are members of the commonwealth?
mr president, if we truly want to ensure that 2015 is the year of development, we must have a successful strategy and the powerful means that will enable us to accomplish the millennium development goals that we are negotiating this year. this is why the eu and its member states must recommit without delay to the 0.7 % of gni target for official development assistance (oda) with 50 % of oda and at least 0.2 % of gni reserved for the least developed countries, and to present, taking into account budgetary constraints, multiannual budget timetables for the scale—up to these levels by 2020. indeed, the problem stays with the member states of the european union. i support the view adopted in the report when it states that domestic resource mobilisation is more predictable and sustainable than foreign assistance and must be a key source of financing. public aid alone is not sufficient to cover all investment needs in developing countries. the eu must set up a regulatory framework, together with developing countries, that stipulates more responsible, transparent and countable investment, contributing to the development of a socially conscious private sector in developing countries.
mr president, while the millennium development goals were mostly about poverty eradication, the new goals are a lot wider in ambition, seeking to alleviate poverty, to achieve equitable and sustained economic growth, to protect the environment and to promote peaceful and inclusive societies where human rights everywhere are respected. compared to the last period’s eight goals, we are currently faced with proposals for 17 goals and almost 200 targets. we should be careful not to divert this process into a bureaucratic nightmare but to reach an agreement on development policy that is comprehensive and clear, can be easily monitored and is also in line with other international framework agreements such as the one on climate change. in order to reach a strong agreement and financing partnership it is absolutely imperative that the eu and its member states, the largest donor of aid, continue to assume their responsibility in negotiations and make renewed commitments in the case of both high- and medium-income countries.
i'm not sitting down. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 19 may 2015. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. the european union is a major player in international development, accounting for almost 60% of global official development assistance. there are many things that can be improved. we must encourage the fight against tax evasion. there is also the possibility of very high risks that can lead to a debt bubble in countries that have limited income. more funding is needed in science, research, development and technology. we must not forget micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, as they play a fundamental role in job creation and inclusive growth. aid programmes and projects are needed to take appropriate action in the event of evidence of corruption and mismanagement of funds in developing countries.
i'm not sitting down. the next item is the commission statement on the tobacco agreements (2015/2686 (rsp))
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, it seems that mrs ries does not want to answer questions because she does not have a very clear position, so i put a question to mr bové. yes, you are right, we need transparency and documentation but at the same time, don't you think that the national police, the police departments, the ministries of the interior and the customs police should do their job? i have read many articles and it seems that the national police are tolerant of this cigarette trade. they have to do their job first.
i'm not sitting down. the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing.– considering the fact that we do not have yet any other political mean to fight illicit trade in contraband and counterfeit cigarettes, i believe that the european parliament should wait for the assessment on the true effectiveness of the agreements that the commission has promised to publish in the next weeks, and then decide whether to start the negotiations for renewal in a transparent way for an adjustment of the agreements, or to nullify the agreements with the main tobacco companies.
mr president, an important action in order to achieve a digital single market is to simplify vat rules for digital goods and services in order to improve online access to them and allow fair competition. new changes to vat rules for digital sales that entered into force this year were intended to prevent giant digital companies from being the only ones reaping the benefits of the digital single market. however, the new rules could have counter-productive effects and unintended consequences. i am particularly referring to the micro—enterprises that actually make up the majority of the digital services. vat regulations may become real obstacles for users and providers of services, especially for cross-border operations. the new provisions must not lead either to an increase in prices for the consumers or to extra costs which are an additional burden for businesses. therefore, commissioner, it is imperative to report as soon as possible on the functioning of the new provisions in order to make eventual adjustments if needed. the introduction of the place-of-supply principle and the vat mini one-stop shop should also lead to less regulatory burdens, better and more cost-effective digital services. furthermore, member states should enhance cooperation as regards the vat rate applied to digital services, in order not to discriminate against consumers across the european union who might find themselves in the position of paying significantly different prices for the same services.
mr president, i believe that the alignment of vat rates on e-books and e-papers is a very important step to carry out, as it would apply the same lowered vat deductions to these digital services as to physical books and papers, thereby creating an equal, level playing field and eliminating distortion of competition. the actual divergences between vat rates on physical and digital products cannot be justified after the entry into force of new vat rules on digital products sold in the eu, which are now chargeable in the place of purchase rather than in the place of supply. this regulation would also facilitate purchases for people who cannot afford to pay more for the same kind of books. in order to enable all member states to benefit equally from the digital single market, the principle of taxation in the member state where consumption takes place should apply in all cases.
mr. president, on europe day, together with a thousand pes activists from romania, we started a campaign to demand our right to be in the schengen area. four years have passed since the european council concluded that romania fulfils all the conditions. therefore, keeping romania out of schengen is an abuse. basically, it's four years of discrimination against romania. it is the european council and the commission that are allowing this injustice. the romanians i represent no longer want to hear how one or two states are blamed for the current impasse. the european institutions have the responsibility to convince reluctant member states. we talk about the eu's influence in the world, but we are unable or unwilling to convince the member states to honour a simple commitment. the european commission applies a double standard: on the one hand it does not help romania, but on the other hand it shows openness to renegotiating treaties with another member state - in this case the united kingdom. romanians are the europeans with the highest degree of trust in the european union and it would be a shame for the european institutions to spoil this. romania is asking for schengen. romanians deserve to be in schengen.
mr president, on 10 may 2015, the foreign affairs committee of parliament adopted a proposal to revise the european union's strategy towards russia, which is accused of occupying the crimea region and supporting separatists in eastern ukraine. i believe that the drafting of this document should take particular account of the fact that romania and poland are the main eu countries affected by the ukrainian crisis. geographically, whether we like it or not, the war is on the border of the european union, and romania has shown that it is solidary and responsible by following the positions expressed by the european union and the us, even if, economically, it is directly affected by the perpetuation of this conflict. the crisis may have a much bigger impact in the future, through pressure on energy prices, but also because russia and ukraine are the main trade ports of the european union and romania to eastern markets. in this context, the revision of the european union's strategy towards russia is an act that will directly affect romania's economic interests and, therefore, within the european union, the other member states must show their solidarity, taking into account the interests of the romanian nation and discussing the revision of the strategy with balance. it is time to show solidarity, because we need a united europe, of all nations.
mr president, an important report on two threats to health systems in the european union. antimicrobial resistance is a growing threat because it interferes with the effective prevention and treatment of a wide range of infections. patient safety is another extremely important issue and it is very worrying that between 8 and 12 per cent of european patients fall victim to adverse healthcare effects when in hospitals. i'm advocating for continuing education for all health care workers, i'm advocating for making sure that health care workers are educating patients about the off-label use of medicines. we also need to define, in all member states, minimum standards for patient safety in the european union. i also think we need to use all the opportunities that we have to discover new, more effective antibiotics.
in writing. the european parliament resolution on green growth opportunities for smes is a step forward in strengthening the small business act strategy, whereby the eu must enable smes to turn environmental challenges into opportunities. since 2008, the eu has been creating a legislative framework to help micro-enterprises and smes benefit from the opportunities offered by the single market and to promote skills and innovation in smes. i believe that the commission's green sme action plan, which underpins the resolution voted today, provides a clear direction in which the eu intends to help smes move to a green and circular economy. the sectors concerned are renewable energy, resource efficiency, waste management, emission reduction and recycling. this initiative presents a series of concrete actions: supporting smes to use the commercial potential of eco-innovation (cosme programme), cross-sectoral collaboration (workforce efficiency in the circular economy: repairs, refurbishments and recycling), setting up the european centre of excellence which will provide advice and assistance to smes, including on european programmes. i stress the importance of better coordination between the financial instruments in the eu budget, within the european structural and investment funds, the green innovation fund, the employment programme and the life programme.
rapporteur.– mr president, the draft regulation that we will be debating today aims to break the link between mineral extraction and trade and the financing of armed conflict. it sets up an eu system of self—certification of importers of 3ts and gold, modelled on the oecd due diligence guidelines for responsible supply chains of minerals from conflict-affected areas. what the conflict-affected areas are, entrepreneurs will receive guidance to establish, but this regulation does not tell them. this is not country-specific: it is conflict-specific, if i may put it that way, so it does not deal with any specific country or region. let me emphasise that our aim here is to build a coalition of responsible stakeholders in the interests of the people and the local communities in conflict-affected areas. responsible sourcing of minerals from those areas is a very complex challenge. the objective of the eu approach is to break the link between economic activity and transparently—managed industry and trade, and conflict financing and conflict fuelling. parliament has called on the commission to take action on this issue. therefore, last march the commission came up with the draft regulation and the joint communication to accompany it. let me take this opportunity to thank commissioner cecilia malmström, the coordinators in parliament’s committee on international trade (inta), committee on development and committee on foreign affairs, the shadow rapporteurs, all colleagues and all the stakeholders involved in the debate in the past months, for the great amount of work invested in this. my objective as rapporteur is to contribute and draw up an efficient regulation which has to be coherent with the integrated eu approach, an approach which is built on three pillars: a trade regulation which is setting up the supply chain due diligence self-certification mechanism; accompanying measures to assist european union companies in their uptake of the self-certification system, firstly and with a special focus on european smes; and accompanying measures on the ground to be deployed through political, diplomatic and development cooperation specially designed to support capacity-building, better governance and, first of all, education of all the stakeholders involved. in order to achieve these effects and parliamentʼs intentions, trade regulation has to be efficient and workable. the compromise voted in inta, which is on the table for the vote tomorrow, is a compromise that fulfils this objective. it provides the voluntary responsibility-based approach with mandatory due diligence obligations for eu smelters and refiners, and also importers of minerals. it takes on board existing experience and incorporates already—functioning self-certification mechanisms, so it takes on board a great deal of work which has already been done by industry initiatives by providing the possibility of recognition for already established and oecd-compatible schemes. it introduces the european ʽresponsible importerʼ label for the importers under the regulation and it draws up a list of responsible european importers. it introduces voluntary labelling for companies operating in the downstream european certification of responsibility, which is introduced also under the regulation proposed. this proposal, voted in inta, respects the principles of prudent and proportionate legislating. it does not unilaterally impose obligations on eu companies; it respects and ensures a consistent uptake of the minerals market towards responsible conflict-free certification. this proposal also focuses specially on the large number of european smes involved. it protects these smes with the right incentives and assistance, and does this under the umbrella of the cosme programme. it includes a strong and clear review clause that provides for the possibility to assess the effects of the regulation on the ground. the review also provides the opportunity to accommodate evolutions in the oecd due diligence framework regarding additional minerals beyond 3tg as they are elaborated by the oecd. the proposal also avoids the risk of trade diversion, disengagement from conflict areas, unwanted but de facto embargoes effects, and any surge in smuggling and illegal trade with a negative price effect on the market. it does all this because it provides a functional and workable implementing framework for the regulation. i believe that the proposal voted in the inta committee and tabled in this plenary fulfils the objective of the integrated eu approach, so i ask members to support this proposal in the vote tomorrow.
member of the commission.– mr president, i would like to thank the house very much for this important debate. parliament has today, as over the last year, contributed greatly to raising awareness of this very important issue. that awareness and that public pressure has also made many of the global mineral supply chains increasingly aware of the need to set due diligence standards as part of their corporate social responsibility. this debate shows that we all share the same goals. we need to break the link between conflict trade minerals and the terrible violence that we have all witnessed, which affects so many children, women and men. we need to promote transparent, responsible mineral supply chains so that we can keep the money out of the hands of rebel groups; so that we can ensure that the revenue from this trade is available for good governance, for health, for schools and for other vital public services; and so that we can encourage economic growth that provides conflict-affected areas with hope for a better future. in the commission proposal we do address the upstream part of the supply chains, and with the accompanying measures we have set aside eur 20 million: this money is to improve the conditions on the ground but also to help companies – especially small and medium-size companies – to be able to do the checks, the audits and the traceability because that is not easy today. we should not fool ourselves. it is not easy even for the best meaning company to be fully sure of where all its supplies come from. so this is to support them in doing this. we also create an eu list of due diligence for the downstream companies with a possibility to name and shame, and i am quite confident – and this has strengthened in me after this debate – that most, if not all, companies will be on that list. if this is not effective there is a review clause to push further. i think there has been a lot of work going on in this parliament and i would like to pay tribute to the work in the committee on international trade and others to improve the commission proposal, to make it even stronger, to make a proposal that we can be proud of here in the european union and so that we can also achieve our goals while learning from some of the experiences in the past. the commission will certainly look forward to working with parliament on this in the future.
rapporteur.– mr president, there is a very important consensus across this chamber and it is that of supporting the best interests of the people and of the local communities in conflict areas. their interest is in stopping mineral extraction from financing conflict, but their interest is also in the enforcement of law-abiding and transparent industry and trade to be the basis of sustainable local development. the interests of people and communities caught in war and conflict cannot be served by an eu regulation alone; that is why we need an eu integrated approach. whether something is right or wrong, good or bad, cannot be reduced to mere permissibility under a regulation. what we need is to develop a culture of responsibility and to educate all the stakeholders. we need individual responsibility when engaging stakeholders; we need to distinguish clearly between experts and activists. while the taking—over of best practice is a good thing, to take over a failed practice, namely the mandatory dodd-frank act, is a bad idea. unilateral action provokes unilateral response, de facto embargoes produce de facto prohibitions, and prohibitions have never worked, as we know very well. we have on the table the proposal from the committee on international trade (inta). that is an effective and workable proposal; it has been carved out with responsibility. the inta proposal is capable of being the strong fundament of the eu’s integrated approach to breaking the link between minerals and conflict, so please support this proposal tomorrow.
in writing. we all know that not making a decision is the worst decision. that is why i think we should vote for the regulation in question. we need to be careful how we ensure the safe use of minerals, while at the same time we need to calculate the impact on smes. to do this, we need to take into account the frequency of certificates, audits and ex-post verification. if it turns out that the administrative burdens and costs will be very high, we need to look at how we support smes. if the impact is found to be very high, i believe that a declaration of conformity on own responsibility may also be sufficient if importers in each member state will source exclusively from compulsorily certified sources. at the same time, we cannot compare the losses of smes with the lives of people. i agree to the establishment of the single competent authority at eu level for the establishment of uniform procedures. however, if it is found that there is a need to extend the scope of application throughout the chain, then we can request the review.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, thank you for this opportunity to present the digital single market strategy to you today. it is the fruit of six months of constructive work within the commission and with all of you in the european parliament. during this time i had many contacts with various parliamentary committees. they expressed their support for building a digital single market for europe. we all recognise its importance and the benefits that it will bring for people and business, for creating economic growth and employment. our strategy has a clear timetable, with 16 ambitious initiatives based around three interlinked policy pillars: better access for consumers and businesses to digital goods and services across europe; and high—quality infrastructure that works smoothly across europe. we also need to create the right and fair conditions in the underlying environment, preparing for the future to maximise the growth potential of the digital economy. i will highlight a few initiatives under each pillar. an urgent first task is to secure and guarantee free movement of goods and services in a unified digital space and to improve online access generally. the digital single market aims to boost cross-border e-commerce by encouraging smes to sell across borders. one of our first initiatives will be to bring rules for online purchases more into line across the european union. people could save eur 11.7 billion per year if they could choose from a full range of eu goods and services when they shop online. the digital single market is also about modernising today’s copyright system. we want to improve people’s access to cultural content online while opening new opportunities for creators and the content industry. this will also promote cultural diversity. we will present legislative proposals before the end of 2015 to reduce the differences between national copyright regimes and allow for wider online access to works across the european union. then, under its second pillar, the strategy will look to improve conditions for digital networks and services to underpin the digital single market. the commission will propose an ambitious reform of eu telecoms rules. this will include more effective spectrum coordination. it will also tackle regulatory differences around eu national markets and create better incentives for investments in high-speed broadband. the commission will also conduct a comprehensive analysis of the role of online platforms. it will focus on transparency, liability and equal conditions for competition. lastly, we will build a solid foundation for long-term growth. europe needs to take full advantage of the digital economy where data is becoming all-important and where people have the skills needed to fill new jobs. they must also have trust and confidence when they go online. common standards and interoperability are essential to make the best of fast-growing sectors such as cloud computing, and the internet of things. we also need them in the context of promoting e—government services around europe and a more inclusive e-society. together, these initiatives form a realistic roadmap for us to work together over the next four and a half years. they will prepare europe for a bright digital future. they will help people and companies to get the best from the online world. i want europeans to have better protection when buying online, lower cost for deliveries, more choice and better access to content, goods and services from other eu countries. with the digital single market strategy, the commission is looking at opportunities that our citizens could enjoy to help us create a vibrant, creative digital economy and society in europe. for businesses, the commission will focus on bringing opportunities for them to create new innovative products for a single market of 500 million people, not 28 splintered national markets. european companies and industries must be at the forefront of the digital revolution using the digital single market to scale up, not to move out. we need equal conditions for all to compete openly and fairly in this digital market. every company, large or small, plays by the same rules: no discrimination, no favouritism. i do not have enough time now to go into the details of each initiative that we are planning. however, one thing i do want to say is that they must be taken together as a coordinated and balanced package. if we only succeed in putting half of them into effect, then we will not end up with a true digital single market. i look forward now to your comments and views. thank you very much for your attention.
blue-card question. – mrs ford, you mentioned the strategy of the commission, but do you not think that the commission could do more for the implementation of the digital single market? the strategy, in my opinion, is weak on maximising the growth potential of digital.
in writing. the digital agenda must be a priority for the european union. only by investing in innovation and new technologies can europe remain a leader in the global economy. unfortunately, today, bureaucracy and national regulations prevent some top european companies from developing and expressing the real potential of european digital entrepreneurs. the european union has the human resources and innovative ideas that can drive technological progress worldwide, but to do so, it must facilitate the linking of entrepreneurs and creative people with the financial resources to enable their ideas to be implemented. i like to think that in such a context my country, romania, can become a central player at european level and a regional leader in new technologies. to do this, the eu needs to raise awareness of the importance of new technologies, develop investment programmes tailored to the digital domain, create a digital market without restrictions, but also facilitate the training and education of the population, regardless of generation or region, in the development of these skills either at the usual or professional level. for a true digital revolution at european level, we need to tackle inequalities in access and skills so that the entire population and the european economy understand the benefits of new technological developments.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the swiss confederation, as it seeks exclusively to codify eec regulation no 2841/72. this free trade agreement between the swiss confederation and the european communities constitutes a legal framework for the development of economic relations between the two parties, and the safeguard measures provided for are the instruments used in the context of the increase in imports and the effects resulting therefrom. given that the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission considers that the proposal in question is limited to a simple codification of existing texts without substantive changes to them, i believe that this report should be supported in order to make the process of unification and standardisation work better.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as the proposal fully preserves the content of the act being codified.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the swiss confederation as it clarifies a number of procedural mechanisms governing the relationship with the swiss state.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the european convention for the legal protection of services based on conditional access and of conditional access services. the aim of this convention is to ensure greater protection of conditional access services and conditional access services. taking into account existing technological developments, and the fact that a number of european states, which are not part of the european union, can be a favourable environment for the creation and development of conditional access-based hacking devices, the convention drawn up by the council of europe provides a broader legal framework to eliminate any illicit intent over a wider area. i welcome this initiative as it contributes to effectively tackling threats to protected services.
in writing. ‒ the council was able to adopt a decision on 14 april 2014 on the signing on behalf of the union of the convention, but since the new legal basis concerns matters falling under exclusive competences of the union, the possibility to conclude the convention of behalf of the union was questioned. as a consequence, the draft council decision, for which the consent of parliament has been requested, now includes an annex in which the union declares that it fully recognises the objectives pursued by the convention, but also expresses its concern regarding the application of those procedural provisions, on the basis of its exclusive competence. taking into account that it is not possible to renegotiate the cconvention in order to address this problem – which in any event falls within the field of external representation of the union, for which the council and the commission are primarily responsible – and with reference to the fact that the convention would effectively extend the scope of the framework provided by directive 98/84/ec outside of the union and thereby combat threats to protected services, i voted in favour of giving consent to the conclusion of the convention.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the european convention for the legal protection of services based on conditional access and of conditional access services. the european convention was adopted on 24 january 2001 and entered into force on 1 july 2003 and consists of a set of regulations similar to directive 98/84/ec. the adoption of this recommendation sends a message of support for the convention beyond the eu's borders.
in writing. ‒ it appears that the alleged offence was committed before viktor uspaskich became a member of the european parliament and that pre-trial proceedings had already been initiated before he assumed his seat in the european parliament. it follows that the criminal proceedings to be brought against viktor uspaskich are not connected with his current office as member of the european parliament. finally, there are no sufficiently serious and specific grounds for suspecting that it is a case of fumus persecutionis. i therefore voted in favour of waiving the immunity of viktor uspaskich.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal by the rapporteur of the committee on legal affairs of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ the charges are not related to the performance of mr lavrilleux’s duties as a member of the european parliament but related to his previous post in a presidential election campaign team set up for a vote that took place two years before mr lavrilleux was elected member of the european parliament. furthermore, there is a lack of fumus persecutionis, which is to say there is no well-founded suspicion that the legal proceedings have been instituted with the intention of causing political damage to the member. i therefore voted in favour of waiving the immunity of jérôme lavrilleux.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal by the rapporteur of the committee on legal affairs of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ whereas the alleged offence does not have a direct or obvious connection with mr korwin-mikke’s performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament, and nor does it constitute an opinion expressed or a vote cast in the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union; whereas in this case parliament has found no evidence of fumus persecutionis, which is to say a sufficiently serious and precise suspicion that the case has been brought with the intention of causing political damage to the member concerned, i voted in favour of waiving the immunity of janusz korwin-mikke.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal by the rapporteur of the committee on legal affairs of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ whereas the prosecution does not concern opinions expressed or votes cast in the performance of duties as a member of the european parliament for the purposes of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union; and whereas there is no reason to suspect that the intention underlying the criminal proceedings is to damage the member’s political activity (fumus persecutionis), given that the prosecution was initiated a number of years before the member took up his post, i voted in favour of waiving the parliamentary immunity of theodoros zagorakis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal by the rapporteur of the committee on legal affairs of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i approve the request for consultation of the european economic and social committee on ‘improving the functioning of the european union building on the potential of the lisbon treaty’.
in writing. ‒ as an alternate member of the committee that initiated the request for consultation, i voted in favour of all the consultations proposed to discuss the future of the european union, its proper functioning and the exploitation of the potential of the lisbon treaty.
in writing. ‒ i approved the request for consultation of the european economic and social committee on ‘possible evolutions and adjustments of the current institutional set up of the european union’.
in writing. ‒ as an alternate member of the committee that initiated the request for consultation, i voted in favour of all the consultations proposed to discuss the future of the european union, possible developments and adjustments to the current institutional structure of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i approved the request for consultation of the committee of the regions on ‘improving the functioning of the european union building on the potential of the lisbon treaty’.
in writing. ‒ as an alternate member of the committee that initiated the request for consultation, i voted in favour of all the consultations proposed to discuss the future of the european union, its proper functioning and the exploitation of the potential of the lisbon treaty.
in writing. ‒ i approved the request for consultation of the committee of the regions on ‘possible evolutions and adjustments of the current institutional set—up of the european union’.
in writing. ‒ as an alternate member of the committee that initiated the request for consultation, i voted in favour of all the consultations proposed to discuss the future of the european union, possible developments and adjustments to the current institutional structure of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the fact that, in this report, the s&d group managed to ensure a fair balance of requirements between critical and non-critical benchmarks, as well as the inclusion in the scope of commodity benchmarks. i believe it is very important that a european legislative framework be established, in order to avoid the scandals and the market abuses that took place in the past. i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for the good balance reached in the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts. this report allows the correlation at european level of indicators and instruments used by the financial market to evaluate and present financial offers, and introduces a set of rules that will allow for greater transparency and better verification of the financial market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as we definitely need to regulate financial benchmarks after cases such as the libor scandal. banks and managers need to be subject to a certain level of standards and individuals should not be able to so freely manipulate financial indices and destabilise financial markets. i believe this report is a good balance between this need and the one not to interfere excessively in the financial self-regulation of the european markets.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts. this report provides a comprehensive approach to the regulation of exchange rate and libor benchmarks in the context of changes in european legislation following revelations of manipulation. the report aims to take account of the stability and efficiency of markets and the economy in general.
in writing. ‒ by adopting the post-2015 development agenda, which will replace the millennium development goals, the international community will respond to the challenges facing the world today: eradicating poverty, achieving sustainable and inclusive development for present and future generations, and ensuring the promotion and protection of all fundamental human rights and values as the basis for peaceful and prosperous societies. i believe that this framework must be universal, based on universal values such as human rights, good governance, the rule of law, support for democratic institutions, inclusion, non-discrimination and gender equality. i voted in favour of the report on financing for development, taking into account the addis ababa world conference and the eu's objectives, as a robust, transparent and accessible monitoring and accountability framework is needed to effectively track and monitor investments and progress.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the proposal to run programmes to support the development of a social-minded private sector in developing countries, with a focus on supporting women and other vulnerable groups. one solution is appropriate information and training programmes on financial issues, the use of banking and insurance products and new technologies. on the other hand, it is important to develop micro-credit schemes, especially for women, to give them the opportunity to start and run their own businesses.
in writing. ‒ i believe the eu and its member states must recommit without delay to the 0.7% of gni target for oda, with 50% of oda and at least 0.2% of gni reserved for least—developed countries, and present, taking into account budgetary constraints, multiannual budget timetables for the scale-up to these levels by 2020. i support the point of view adopted in the report where it states that domestic resource mobilisation is more predictable and sustainable than foreign assistance and must be a key source of financing. public aid alone is not sufficient to cover all investment needs in development countries. the eu must set up, together with developing countries, a regulatory framework that stimulates more responsible, transparent and accountable investment, contributing to the development of a socially—conscious private sector in developing countries.
in writing. ‒ we voted in favour of this report, which reiterates the importance of financing development policies. as a member of the european parliament, a member of the acp delegation and a university academic specialising in development cooperation, i consider it absolutely vital to reform the system of financing development assistance. this requires focusing resources on key development areas such as education, health, food and infrastructure, but also improving spending efficiency by linking eu and member state actions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mr pereira's report as i support the need for a stronger eu position in the upcoming international conferences on oda, starting with the one in addis ababa. the current world economic situation is one of major discrepancies, and investing in development can lead to horizontal prosperity, increased trade, reduction in countless risk factors (security, migrants, poverty-fuelled extremism etc.), but we need to assume leadership here, as before. all member states need to understand this and to prioritise their budgets accordingly so we can literally put our money where our words are.
in writing. ‒ i voted 'for' because i believe that the european union has and must assume responsibilities beyond its borders. aid effectively delivered to eu border states not only helps to improve the living standards of people living in those countries (and may lead to the avoidance of new waves of migrants to the eu). the granting of any funding is and should be, in my view, conditional on the request and implementation in the beneficiary countries of minimum standards which correspond both to european standards and values and which provide guarantees on the effective use of the amounts received for the benefit of the people.
in writing. ‒ we face several problems in terms of patient safety. firstly, because the economic crisis is putting pressure on health care budgets, and budget cuts in the health system have caused reductions in qualified staff. the exodus of medical personnel from eastern european countries is a reality we are facing and one that member states should find a solution to. poor health care is one of the underlying causes of the rise of antimicrobial resistance. lack of information on the recommended medication is another factor that influences this process. according to statistics, over 30% of european citizens are unaware that antibiotics are ineffective in the treatment of varicose veins. in order to inform the patient correctly, the commission should require manufacturers of medicinal products to provide a summary of the product information to enable the patient to understand the benefits and risks of administering the medicinal product. i voted in favour of the report because appropriate treatment and responsible use of medicines are essential elements in the fight against antimicrobial resistance.
in writing. ‒ given that patient safety is jeopardised by economic austerity measures that impose cuts in health services and have a direct impact on the quality of treatment, i believe that member states must ensure that, in this period of economic crisis, patient safety is not affected by austerity measures and that health systems continue to benefit from adequate funding. in particular, i believe that the most harmful measures, such as short-term savings, which would lead to high costs in the medium and long term, should be avoided and instead focused on further developing high quality and efficient health systems.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the eu must take action on different levels to greatly reduce health—related infections, which are putting an enormous strain on healthcare systems. adequate resources must be invested in patient safety and the fight against drug resistance. i welcome the very positive aspects introduced in this report, such as the willingness to develop patient safety strategies on prevention, education, awareness-raising, diagnosis and treatment; the focus on the necessity to provide training of healthcare professionals in infection prevention and control; the inclusion of the need to ensure better monitoring and data collection of hais; the proper screening and isolation of patients transferred from other regions. this report also positively highlights the importance of the responsible use of antibiotics in the fight against drug resistance, and addresses scientific, regulatory and economic challenges to encourage r&d into new antimicrobials. i support the promotion of the one health strategy and the link between human and animal health and the environment. finally, i believe we must ensure adequate funding to provide high—quality healthcare systems throughout europe.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report. it acknowledges that some member states have made significant progress. however, others have fallen behind and it points out that action should be taken in the following areas: ensuring adequate funding to provide high quality healthcare; providing training of professionals in infection prevention and control; proper screening and isolation of patients transferred from other regions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which is about making healthcare safer in europe by improving patient safety and tackling antimicrobial resistance. statistics show that over 10 million people a year will fall victim to antimicrobial resistance by 2050 if no clear action is taken. the same data indicate that 25% of european patients are at risk of developing problems from this resistance. accordingly, the report's proposals include more information, training of health-care workers, communication with patients, prevention actions and identifying solutions for the future.
in writing. ‒ i support the text adopted in this report as it represents an important step in a european approach to unified healthcare standards. we do need safer healthcare, focused on the patients, with better standards and adapted legislation in all member states, and parliament has adopted today a document opening many pathways for better cooperation in this field at union level.
in writing. we voted on the report on safer healthcare in europe: improving patient safety and tackling antimicrobial resistance. i welcome the fact that the rapporteur has drawn up this report on the basis of the need to recognise patient safety, the right of the patient not to suffer harm or potential harm as a result of medical treatment, as an essential element of the quality of healthcare systems. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are necessary to ensure the safety of patients. another key element highlighted by the report concerns the slowdown in research into new alternative medicines.
in writing. ‒ smes are the core of the eu economy with significant long-term growth potential, and the field of sustainable development holds a wide range of investment opportunities. by supporting businesses to invest in sustainable development, we are laying the foundations for an ecosystem that will then self-generate its own development resources. the heterogeneous nature of european smes gives them a high degree of adaptability and gives them the possibility to create new products. promoting entrepreneurial culture and partnership building, as well as recovery measures in case of failure, are key elements underpinning the functioning of micro-enterprises. i voted in favour of this report because i am convinced that the development of the green economy and bilateral trade agreements will remove the obstacles to the development of smes and create new growth opportunities.
in writing. ‒ i think it would be beneficial for small and medium-sized enterprises in the european union to organise a campaign on the efficient use of resources and the benefits and opportunities offered by european programmes. i support the proposal in the report on better interinstitutional cooperation on the transfer of knowledge and good practice, including across borders, through informal networks. it is also important to develop concrete initiatives to facilitate cross-sectoral cooperation and resource management.
in writing. ‒ i believe it is very important, considering the growth potential for smes in the green sector, that europe support them in the greening of their product lines, production processes, business practices and services, doing so within an adequate regulatory framework. i welcome the idea explained in the report that awareness of green entrepreneurship should be promoted in early education and that venture capital, business angels and crowd funding should be put forward as alternatives to regular bank financing. considering the disparity of access to technology between smes and multinationals, we should focus on stimulating knowledge-sharing. smes are the backbone of the european economy. stimulating their green growth through a more entrepreneurial mindset, developing open and innovation-friendly rules while keeping the budget in check would have, in my opinion, a very positive effect on the growth of europe’s green economy.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the report clearly points out that there is a large potential for green growth, but it cannot be fully exploited if several basic conditions are not fulfilled. moreover, friendly rules are more needed, and diverse access to finance as well.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report on green growth opportunities for smes. the report is based on the concept of green growth, whereby pooling resources and stimulating private initiatives at european level could create new jobs and develop a new economic model based on innovation and high value-added products. to achieve this, the report mentions the need for additional investment in research, in specific skills training or in the regularisation of the green economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because our group is one of the leading proponents of green alternatives for sme development, and this path of investment should be the new norm in my view. in fact, soon we should stop referring it as the ‘green’ economy, but as the economy, as the term ‘green’ should be absorbed into every single aspect of life. smes can be a driving factor in this change, as through small and medium entrepreneurship new technologies, work ethics and economic activities can be best brought forward.
in writing. ‒ i voted 'for' because i believe that the report presented can create the conditions for easier access to finance for smes, but also because it can help to achieve ambitious goals for a sustainable future at eu level. last but not least, it highlights the major contribution of smes in areas such as research, development and innovation in general, especially in the areas of environmental protection and the efficient use of the limited resources we have. i believe that these areas are essential to increasing the competitiveness of the european economy as a whole.
in writing. ‒ financing green activities in smes must be a priority of the commission's strategic thinking for the coming period. if there is one sector that needs to be helped to grow in a competitive environment in europe, it is the sme sector. by targeting this sector to encourage green activities, recycling, eco-tourism, waste management or waste prevention, we can help to maintain a clean environment for future generations. environmental protection cannot be done without sustainable investment, public information and the active involvement of the most relevant economic sector in the eu: smes and micro-enterprises. financial support to smes that carry out environmentally friendly activity can be a new beginning in striking a consistent balance between generating profit and economic growth and protecting resources, in an efficient and rational way. the responsibility for maintaining an attractive environment for smes in the green business sector lies with us. we must not miss this opportunity to attract new smes to european funding programmes, to generate absorption in the member states and at the same time to maintain a clean and healthy environment.
in writing. i voted for the report on green growth opportunities for smes. i welcome the rapporteur's initiative to focus his legislative initiative on the green economic growth potential of the sme sector. the report highlights the added value of the eu budget in supporting smes, micro, social enterprises and cooperatives to facilitate access to finance and international markets, in particular through the cosme programme and under horizon 2020 and the european structural and investment funds (esi funds). it also calls on the commission to include green services in the ongoing negotiations on the environmental goods agreement and in bilateral trade agreements such as ttip, with a view to reducing barriers for european smes and service providers seeking to establish themselves internationally.
on behalf of the s&d group.– madam president, the judgement that, in view of the deterioration of the current security environment both around and within europe, the eu will have to appeal more and more frequently to the csdp is both correct and the realistic. the problem is that the csdp, as mentioned by mr danjean, is only a crisis management instrument conceived for use primarily outside europe and in obvious need of more flexible implementation procedures. it does not provide for the defence of either the eu member states, who rely for that on nato, or the eu non—nato member states who, in absence of nato membership, have to rely exclusively on the eu for their defence. the truth is that in view of the intensity, complexity and localisation of the current crisis, the un and nato have a mutual need of each other more than at any time before. past mistrust, and even competition between the two organisations, is not warranted any longer. these have to be replaced by substantive cooperation across the board. i am glad to hear that just confirmed by the high representative.
madam president, i would like to focus on some important issues. commissioner and high representative, we are facing some old peculiarities, which i might call strange. i am referring to the european defence agency, and this is mentioned in one of the reports. while this european defence agency is headed by you, it remains under the authority of the council and is fully funded from outside the union budget. these kind of things have to be settled in the end, because this mechanism does not function in reality. at the same time, i am referring to the cooperation between the european union and nato. considering the current challenges and threats to our common security and defence, we need by all means to strengthen cooperation between the two organisations.
madam president, in the amendments that i tabled to the different reports, i underlined my belief that we need more transparency in the common european security and defence policy. this also means more responsibility by the member states, which have to respect their financial engagements which are needed to fulfil eu ambitions and objectives. in order to implement european actions in terms of security and defence, we need more coherence and complementarity between eu operations and financial resources, as well as more efficiency and new ideas for initiatives that can generate the support of member states. personally, i believe that today we need more awareness by the member states that we need a true common european policy. today we can no longer be undecided and hesitant. we have to be prepared to act against those who attack the european democratic model. we need to be coherent and fair with our international and transatlantic partners. we need the eu to respect its civil engagements. we need a common security and defence policy, and for that we need a common financing system supported by all member states.
madam president, when we discuss these reports today, we find that everything we knew and believed about the european union's security and defence strategy is profoundly affected by major security crises, and not only in the immediate eastern neighbourhood of the european union, but also in the southern neighbourhood of our union. if this is the case, we must recognize that until recently our union has responded weakly, vaguely, hesitantly and, in any case, not to the level of expectations of our citizens. to support effective european union action in the field of the common security and defence policy, we need new civilian and military capabilities, but also consistent investment in research and development, and an increased, i repeat, increased role for small and medium-sized states in defining this policy. i would like to conclude by saying - and this is not rhetorical - that we must answer the question honestly: how common is our security and defence policy and how much security and defence does it produce for the union?
in writing.– in critical times such as the ones we face today, the eu and its member states must act together in order to counter all security threats. we must respond with one voice and robustly to conflicts in our neighbourhood. i strongly believe that the economic crisis cannot be an obstacle and lead us to abandon our defence policy efforts. i urge member states to meet nato spending targets: 2% of their gdp for defence. the intensity of the current military crisis has only proven that eu and nato are in mutual need. the competition between eu and nato should be replaced by cooperation! we have postponed our common security defence plan for more than 50 years after the failure of the european defence community. it is now time to step forward, and to use all the legislative instruments laid down in the lisbon treaty, such as the solidarity clause and the mutual defence clause. the clear sign of support is that 75% of our citizens want eu integration in defence! what other better incentive are we waiting for? the eu belongs to its citizens, so let us be responsible and ensure them peace and security!
in writing.– in order to create and apply a common pro-active strategy regarding security and defence in europe, it is of utmost importance for there to be enhanced cooperation and coordination among eu member states and between member states and partner countries with regard with security and defence matters, on counter-terrorism and on combating organised crime. having in view the current international context, characterized by international groups and interreligious conflicts, especially in the middle east area, and terrorist actions carried out including inside european states’ territory and apparently motivated by religious reasons, we urgently need to constructively cooperate between the member states and also with external partners against any target implied in terrorist actions. a greater coordination on analysing and disseminating eu intelligence and information will improve our capacity to prevent and react to crises with more efficient results.
mr president, i think it is very important in all cases to stand up for the common european achievements, to respect the values that our societies have developed over many years. it is also important not to lose sight of one of the most fundamental and ancient european values, the tradition of free debate. the european union is also one of the most advanced regions in the world because we resolve our differences of opinion through debate based on objective facts, respect for the positions of the parties and the power of persuasion. this is a huge value, and i think it was perhaps the most important driver of the gradual progress of integration. i'm sure he did. so i would not want us to forget this and to reduce the discussion of the most important issues governing our lives to a mere political quarrel in which governments and countries are successively put to shame. we must also remember that our arguments must always be based on facts and the reasoning that follows from them, or we can easily lose our credibility. and mrs. lunacek, three million citizens have left romania, but romania is not on the agenda, even though we asked for it last year, and there citizens are being punished for using their native language, and instead of protecting property rights, they are nationalizing it. and slovakia is not on the shame bench, although there are collective punishments (beneš decree, language law), but there are socialist governments.
mr. president, the money laundering directive is a step forward, but it doesn't eliminate all the channels through which our money flows into the suitcases of criminals or goes the way of terrorism and funds acts of terrorism in which people die. for example, the directive requires companies to provide data on beneficial owners, on people who benefit from the activities of companies, but access to this data is only allowed to the press and citizens if they can prove a serious and legitimate interest. so we have a barrier to public disclosure of the actual beneficiaries of these companies. furthermore, shell companies are not excluded by this directive. we still have giant companies making huge profits in tax havens. of course, it's not these companies' fault, they go where they have a higher profit. it's our fault in the european union for allowing tax havens like luxembourg inside the union. this means billions of euros lost from our citizens' money because these companies don't pay taxes like they do in other countries. further, casinos - where money is laundered frequently and night after night, night after night - are exempt from customer identity checks. another problem is that tax fraud is only a crime that is subsidiary to money laundering. i want to make an appeal to colleagues ... (the president interrupts the speaker)
mr president, i welcome the inclusion in this report of our group regarding the setting up of a public register on beneficial owners. access to the public register on beneficial owners is subject to a legitimate interest. this formulation will allow those member states which wish to be more transparent to adopt a broad definition of legitimate interest. then member states may provide for an exemption to access to all or part of the beneficial ownership information on a case-by-case basis in exceptional circumstances, if this would expose the beneficial owner to the risk of fraud, kidnapping, blackmail, violence or intimidation, or if the beneficial owner is a minor or otherwise incapable. the fourth amld will provide a sound basis for providing maximum transparency in respect of beneficial ownership of corporate structures across the european union.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, 20 may 2015. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the debate on the recommendation for second reading of the committee on legal affairs on insolvency proceedings (16636/5/2014 - c8-0090/2015 - hyperlink) 'http://www.europarl.europa.eu.int/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/comm/m/comm/comm/m/m/comm/m/m/m/m/m/m/comm/m/m/m/m/m/m/m/m/m/m/o/m/m/m/m/m/m/m/m/m/o/m/m/m/m/o/m/o/m/o/m/o/m/o/o/o/m/o/ the following information shall be provided in the form of a table: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. i'm not going to get doc. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are imputable to the state. the following information shall be provided in the form of a table: the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by setting out the criteria for the selection of the candidates.
mr president, i believe that the framework regulation on insolvency proceedings should include clearly defined rules for natural persons, self-employed persons and consumers. in the field of harmonisation of the laws of the member states, one sector which is not yet unified is that of the insolvency of natural persons. i consider that, in so far as this regulation can provide the framework for this type of debt recovery, it is advisable to do so. last but not least, i would like to highlight the socialist group's effort to include in the harmonisation measures preferential rights for employees who are affected by insolvency proceedings. it should be borne in mind, however, that employees, natural persons and self-employed persons in one form or another must enjoy the same basic rights as legal persons in the event of extended insolvency proceedings, be protected by the framework rules and be able to recover financially, like a company. it is very important that the harmonisation of insolvency measures take into account the needs of natural persons to be fairly represented in such cases... (the chairman interrupted the speaker)
mr president, i welcome the council regulation establishing a european framework for cross-border insolvency proceedings. this would determine which member state has jurisdiction for opening insolvency proceedings, establish uniform rules on applicable law and provide for the recognition and enforcement of insolvency—related decisions, as well as for the coordination of main and secondary insolvency. our s&d amendment managed to avoid forum shopping by introducing the additional criterion of a three-month cooling-off period. the regulation now also allows for coordination of the proceedings for corporate groups and calls for the future introduction of preferential rights for employees. i wish to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for the very good job they have done.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, 20 may 2015. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
president. - the next item is the debate on the question with a request for an oral answer on maternity leave, to the council and the commission by arena maria and iratxe garcía pérez, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality (hyperlink "http://www.europarl.europa.eu). the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the aid is compatible with the internal market. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation.
president-in-office of the council.– mr president, i would like to thank you for this opportunity to address the state of play as regards the commission’s proposal to revise the maternity leave directive. during the past few months, the presidency has met with parliament’s representatives on several occasions to discuss this subject. as you know, the commission has expressed its intention to withdraw the proposal if there is no tangible progress on unblocking the negotiations by the summer. i shall be very honest with you: the proposal as it stands clearly does not enjoy support in the council. the council’s position does not leave any room for further manoeuvre. we must also be realistic about the fact that parliament’s position on, and expectations from, the proposal are fundamentally different from the council’s. we respect that stance. however, we must face the fact that the current state of affairs will not allow us to progress on the issue. allow me to stress one thing: the council’s position was not arrived at easily. it is the result of profound and complex reflection. tremendous effort and good will was invested by the previous presidencies. the presidency cannot act on its own: it is bound by the will of the member states, just as the parliament is bound by the will of its members. despite the difficulties that have surrounded this issue, i believe that the council and parliament remain united in their commitment to advancing the well—being of europe’s women – and of working mothers in particular. the council has repeatedly stressed the importance of supporting women and men in the struggle to reconcile work, family and private life. promoting women’s full participation in the labour market is not only a matter of equality but also an important factor contributing to overall economic growth. with that overall objective in mind, after seven years of efforts that have not brought us to an agreement, we would very much welcome a fresh start on this subject. a new initiative would provide a better basis for the council and parliament to work jointly towards improving the reconciliation of work and family life, for both women and men. this should, of course, include the protection of pregnant and breastfeeding women. i hope that parliament will be able to share the council’s view on the need to take a more comprehensive and forward-looking approach. thank you for your attention.
member of the commission.– mr president, i would like to thank the committee on women’s rights and gender equality (femm) for their engagement and especially for their efforts in relation to the commission’s proposal to revise the maternity leave directive. in particular i would like to pay tribute to the rapporteur, mrs arena, and to the chair of the femm committee, mrs garcía pérez, and to their efforts to find a way out of the stalemate. the commission is strongly committed to gender equality and the protection of pregnant women and new mothers. the commission recognises the need for women and men to be able to balance working life so they can combine it with their family life. the commission has stressed on many occasions its readiness to facilitate negotiations between parliament and the council. we have engaged in continuous efforts to break the deadlock. my services have worked closely with previous and current presidencies and with this house to try to find a realistic solution acceptable to both sides. thanks to mrs arena, we recently had the opportunity to explore new possibilities for compromise, particularly on the question of pay, which we know was difficult for member states in times of economic crisis. the commission has facilitated informal talks between parliament and the council, requested a discussion in the council and has advocated concrete discussions on the basis of the rapporteur’s proposals in order to move towards an agreement. we have insisted that the presidency bring this back for discussion in the council on the basis of the rapporteur’s proposals in order to unblock the negotiations and try to move towards an agreement. when the file came back to the council at political level recently, the commission recalled parliament’s position and readiness to engage. unfortunately, a solid group of member states remains opposed to any further negotiations on this file. many of them agree that there is a strong case for action in this field, but they are not convinced that this proposal, preparations for which started almost 10 years ago, will solve the issues faced by working parents in 2015 and beyond. overall, there is a majority in favour of a fresh start in the council. i remain open to continued discussion with the co-legislators, but as things stand now the commission sees no reason to depart from its intention, as announced in the work programme, to withdraw the proposal and replace it with a new initiative if no agreement can be found within six months. a fresh start now appears likely to be the best way forward. society and the labour market have undergone significant changes in the recent period. the commission is committed to improving the situation of working parents in the eu. i am therefore open to start looking into a new approach to tackle the challenges faced by them. we know that it is mainly women who are hit by what the economists call ‘the motherhood penalty’. they see their potential, and even their ability to participate in the labour market, fall when they become parents. the gender pay gap, which is almost non-existent before child-bearing age, remains, still, at 16% and the gender pension gap stands at 39%. at the same time, we know that europe faces a demographic time bomb that risks becoming a serious economic and social problem, as well as a fiscal problem for the eu, and as the economy starts to pick up, europe needs to make best use of all our talents to compete in the global marketplace. women are more highly qualified than ever before, more highly qualified on average than men. we cannot afford to continue to neglect this talent pool at a time of shrinking populations and growing worldwide competition. women and men have to be able to balance working life so that they can have the family they want. they need to have a choice. men should also be encouraged to live up to their family responsibilities. many men would like to spend more time with their children but face difficult circumstances in the workplace. creating conditions that allow a proper work-life balance will help families, businesses and our societies as a whole and will promote more gender equality at all levels. the challenges for working parents start with the arrival of a new baby, but they do not end there. parents also need a certain level of flexibility throughout the childhood and teenage years. there needs to be a decent level of childcare and care-services infrastructure in place to give people a meaningful choice, and we must not forget the challenges of caring for elderly or infirm dependants faced by today’s sandwich generation. but all this needs to be done in a smart way so that this does not suffer the same fate as the previous, or still current, proposal. that is why i intend to look, together with my colleagues vice-presidents timmermans and dombrovskis, as well as with commissioner thyssen, more broadly at the eu regulatory and policy framework and how it can be improved, given the real needs of parents and businesses in our changing world, and to propose up-to-date solutions to meet these needs. the commission will stay in close contact with parliament in order to reflect together all aspects that should be taken into account. we will also carry out a public consultation and will consult the social partners in accordance with their specific role in the field of social policy as laid down in the treaty. we will consider the full range of possible actions, both legislative and non-legislative measures, in order to have the most effective impact. i look forward to hearing members’ views and i count on their support.
blue-card question.– as you were the shadow rapporteur, do you not think that it is time for the council to engage in dialogue and start negotiations with parliament on the maternity leave directive, taking responsibility for refusing improvements in the safety and health at work of pregnant workers and workers who have recently given birth or are breastfeeding?
in writing. i call on the european commission not to withdraw its proposal to revise the maternity leave directive and thus deprive millions of women of their rights. we need european legislation to protect women and respect their rights. the maternity leave directive aims to set better standards for all pregnant women in the european union and to extend maternity leave to 20 weeks paid, and the withdrawal of the proposal is a direct attack on the values that the european union promotes. i call on the council, parliament and the commission to work together to unlock the directive that will give equal rights to all women in europe. it is time for the european commission to put an end to this deadlock, which has been going on for too long.
mr president the ratification of the convention was a qualitative step forward in the implementation of the union's interests, but more vigorous action is needed to protect the rights of persons with disabilities. what can we do? we warn member states, we remind them that disability must be considered in the light of human rights. secondly, disabled people should be seen as useful, self-determined and equal citizens of society. and thirdly, the effectiveness of the measures taken so far should not be reviewed by the authorities alone, but also by civil society, by all those who fight for the rights of people with disabilities. the eu should continue to emphasise inclusive education for people with disabilities to prevent the risk of poverty and to encourage social inclusion. and of course, we need to join other human rights conventions. this means that everyone can live as an equal citizen of the european union.
blue-card question.– mr president, listening to mr farage, and thinking more about it, i now have a second thought. if i put a question to mr farage, he is probably going to reply in his personal, populist, demagogical way and, if anything, that is going to threaten his political career even further. i really do not want to do that. at the same time, his presence here, his interventions and those of his group represent for us a huge incentive to continue european integration as much as possible... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, the forces driving people away from their homes and pushing them to take on deadly perils to arrive on the shores of europe – war, persecution, poverty, famine – are huge and will not go away any time soon. the commission deserves credit for acknowledging the magnitude of the problem and for identifying both short and long-term solutions to address the refugee crisis. the agenda rightly identifies the fact that a determined fight against irregular migration and human traffickers should be coupled to a fairer and stronger asylum policy and integrated development action that is capable of addressing, in the long term, the root causes of migration in the countries of origin. we should be hopeful that this paper will fuel the right debates among member states and eventually bring more solidarity, coherence and efficiency to our asylum and immigration policy.
in writing. the loss of life in the mediterranean has shocked europe, and european citizens expect member states and european institutions to act to prevent a repetition of these tragedies we have a duty to identify european solutions based on real solidarity and on the awareness that we have a common responsibility, including that of establishing an effective policy in the field of health and safety. the eu is committed to the principle of subsidiarity and to the principle of subsidiarity, and the eu is committed to the principle of subsidiarity. the european union is committed to the development of a common european security policy, based on the principles of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, and to the principle of subsidiarity. this agenda also represents an extension of our cooperation with countries of origin and transit to save lives, combat the commission is also proposing a number of initiatives to encourage the identification and prosecution of those involved in the trafficking of migrants, particularly in the mediterranean. you're in the drug ring.
in writing. ‒ i voted to approve parliament’s calendar of part-sessions for 2016.
in writing. ‒ i supported the calendar of parliament's sessions for 2016 set by the bureau of the european parliament and the political groups.
in writing. ‒ the original agreement signed in pretoria in 1999 aims to strengthen bilateral cooperation in a number of areas with objectives such as: strengthening bilateral dialogue, supporting south africa in its economic and social transition, promoting regional cooperation and the country's economic integration into southern africa and the world economy. furthermore, important provisions of the agreement concern, in addition to economic cooperation, social cooperation, based on an organised dialogue, in particular on freedom of association, workers' rights, children's rights, equality between women and men, combating violence against women, cooperation in the field of the environment, in particular with regard to climate change, cultural cooperation, cooperation in the field of combating drugs and money laundering, cooperation in the field of health, in particular combating aids. i voted in favour of this report because it welcomes the new development provisions, the ones inserted at kleinmond in 2009, in particular those on poverty reduction, aid effectiveness, the mdgs and the link between migration and development.
in writing. ‒ south africa is a strategic partner for the eu, especially given its influential role in the southern african region and the continent as a whole. the tdca is working very well and enables the trade and development perspectives to be combined. i welcome the accession of croatia, as a new member of the eu, to this important trade and development cooperation relationship.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the additional protocol to the agreement on trade, development and cooperation between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of south africa, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. this project solves a technical issue generated by croatia's accession to the eu.
mr president, i am in favour of the adoption of the fourth eu anti—money laundering directive. as criminal and terrorist networks constantly evolve their tactics and methods, we must also adapt to the new threats posed by them. it was high time to address – and even to go beyond – the recommendations issued by the financial action task force in 2012 to tackle money laundering and terrorist financing and to have a european legal protection framework built around the highest international standards. the misuse of the financial system to channel illicit money or to finance terrorist activities threatens the good functioning, reputation and stability of the whole international financial system. this is why we needed the current europe-wide response to address such risks.
in writing. ‒ the eu has shown over time that it is concerned about the initiation and implementation of measures to combat money laundering derived from criminal offences. but these efforts have proved inadequate in the face of the increasingly common terrorist acts that shake our society. the use of the financial system to finance terrorism, such as taking hostages, forging administrative documents and running a terrorist group, are realities of contemporary society that need to be tackled with the utmost urgency by european and international forces. the use of the financial system for money laundering and terrorist financing causes serious damage to the stability of the european financial sector on a daily basis. however, through sustained efforts to increase the vigilance of banks, other financial actors, and by implication the client base as a whole, substantial contributions will be made to stopping these types of crime and to establishing a faster process for examining suspicious transactions. i voted in favour of the report because taking further measures to prevent the use of the financial system for money laundering and terrorist financing strengthens stability and transparency, thus helping to protect and encourage the legal economy.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the inclusion in this report of our group’s perspective regarding the setting up of a public register on beneficial owners. access to the public register on beneficial ownership is subject to a ‘legitimate interest’: this formulation will allow those member states which wish to be more transparent to adopt a broad definition of legitimate interest. member states may provide for an exemption to access to all or part of the beneficial ownership information on a case-by-case basis in exceptional circumstances, if this would expose a beneficial owner to the risk of fraud, kidnapping, blackmail, violence or intimidation or if the beneficial owner is a minor or otherwise incapable. the fourth anti-money-laundering directive will provide a sound basis for providing maximum transparency in respect of beneficial ownership of corporate structures across the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering and terrorist financing, amending regulation (eu) no 648/2012 of the european parliament and of the council and repealing directive 2005/60/ec of the european parliament and of the council and commission directive 2006/70/ec. this project allows, among other things, greater control over the financial activity of publicly exposed persons, the interconnection of the taxation system of companies or the creation of transparency registers.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report in my vote today because it endorses the council's position on stopping the use of the financial system for money laundering and terrorist financing. money laundering is a major problem in all economies of the world, and the eu is no exception. unfortunately, in addition to the damage it does to economies, money laundering is used to fund a wide range of illegal and cross-border activities, such as drug trafficking, human trafficking, and, not least, terrorism. it is very clear that the sources of funding for terrorism globally are very diverse and it is equally clear that all the financial resources required for it go through a money laundering process at some point. to this end, it is necessary to set limits on the amounts that can be used to make cash payments, a method that is very difficult for the authorities to follow.
in writing. ‒ coordinated action by member states in the field of electronic bank transfers contributes to combating fraud and actions that can have serious repercussions on the security and credibility of the union's financial sector. first, financial institutions and payment service providers should ensure that they have all factual information on the originator and beneficiary of transactions and that the data recording requirements are in line with the fatf standards. cryptocurrencies and the payment methods used to make payments have led to the emergence of new illicit activities online. it's concerning that since 2008, when the new payment methods were made public, there have been reports of illegal activities aimed at money laundering, child pornography, drug trafficking, electronic fraud, identity theft using cryptocurrencies. therefore, authorising payment through virtual currencies should be allowed only if there is clear information about the persons involved and the subject matter of the transaction. in order to prevent transfers of funds for the purpose of fraudulent money laundering and terrorist financing, it is necessary to establish principles of cooperation with the authorities of third countries, to allow mutual access to complete information and to follow up on suspicious transactions.
in writing. ‒ this regulation lays down rules for payment service providers to send information on the payer and the payee throughout the payment chain for the purposes of prevention, investigation and detection of money laundering and terrorist financing. a coordinated response from law enforcement bodies in the ms and a standardised procedure for financial institutions and payment service providers is essential to combat money-laundering, which costs many billions annually. the main points of interest of the first reading negotiations concern transfers outside the union, where all information should be recorded, with the exception of a de minimis eur 1000 threshold, which should make remittances slightly easier. furthermore, the chapter on sanctions and monitoring has been enforced, and the provisions on data protection have been better aligned within the regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the recommendation for second reading on the council's first reading position with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on information accompanying transfers of funds and repealing regulation (ec) no 1781/2006. this document strengthens transparency and control over the origin of funds and financial transfers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it supports the document negotiated with the council, which brings a number of regulations on the information to be provided and collected when it comes to transfers of funds. the purpose of these regulations is not to make the work and bureaucracy for those involved in the transfer of funds more difficult, but to ensure a certain traceability of these funds in order to stop the financing of illegal activities and terrorist activities.
in writing. ‒ in a context where crossborder insolvency proceedings are no longer an exception but a current phenomenon affecting not only large enterprises or groups of enterprises but also smes, this commission proposal is welcome as an important initiative concerning european union company law. it is noted that there are certain areas of insolvency law where harmonisation is desirable and feasible, which is fully applicable at present. moreover, it should not be overlooked that disparities between national insolvency laws lead to competitive advantages or disadvantages and difficulties for undertakings with cross-border activities and could become obstacles to the successful restructuring of insolvent undertakings. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that a smooth, coordinated conduct of insolvency proceedings can play an important role in avoiding the winding up of groups and can contribute to a better appreciation of assets and the preservation of jobs.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the council regulation establishing a european framework for cross-border insolvency proceedings. this would determine which member state has jurisdiction for opening insolvency proceedings and establish uniform rules on applicable law, and provides for recognition and enforcing of insolvency-related decisions as well as for the coordination of main and secondary insolvency. our s&d group amendment managed to avert forum shopping by introducing the additional criteria of a three months cool—off period. the regulation now also allows for the coordination of the proceeding for corporate groups, and calls for a future introduction of preferential rights of employees. i thank the rapporteur and the shadows for the very good job done.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the rules on insolvency proceedings must be clear. as the text that this report supports shows, a number of eu-wide procedures are needed for insolvency, especially when we talk about the free market. in this context, the old regulations have been amended and modified to keep pace with the newest contexts, which leads to their ambiguities and misinterpretations. in these circumstances, the text adopted today, which brings all these changes into line and improves on the old procedures, was necessary to create clarity and predictability in the legislation.
in writing. ‒ the financial crisis that hit developed countries' economic sectors hard exposed the vulnerability of financial mechanisms and brought mineral resources back into focus as a potential factor for development. whether it's precious metals or rare earths and metals, which are essential to the technological process, they spark heated debate and lead to conflict. the recent technological advance and the horizontal expansion of the use of technology has, by default, led to an increase in the demand for mineral resources. there are very large interests behind the companies involved in mining, and the vulnerability of the authorities in resource-rich areas creates the conditions for escalating conflicts and flagrant violations of human rights. perhaps it should not be overlooked that whereas in the past communication channels were limited, today we are facing a new phenomenon due to the increasingly widespread access to the virtual environment, which, through the speed and avalanche of information, significantly contributes to the intensification and perpetuation of conflicts. i believe that we need a regulated and transparent framework for responsible sourcing of minerals in the eu, which ensures both traceability of minerals and that financial resources are not targeted at destinations with a risk factor in escalating conflicts.
in writing. ‒ i believe voluntary provisions, concerning only a simple link on the supply chain, are not enough to prevent the spread of conflicts. mandatory transparency requirements for the entire chain would make the real difference.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report proposed by the committee on international trade because it deals with an issue that i also discussed in my previous term of office, when i was on the committee on women's rights and gender equality, namely the control of mining in conflict zones. the money that comes from mining and trading minerals from conflict zones raises a problem that affects us indirectly. in many of these cases, we have clear situations of exploitation of people, impoverishment of the population and, not least, financial support for terrorist groups, paramilitaries and local mafias. it is essential that we have clearer control of the source of minerals and thus ensure that we do not end up sponsoring a modern form of slavery, paramilitary troops or even terrorist groups.
in writing. i voted for a voluntary supply chain certification scheme for importers of tin, tantalum and tungsten, their ores and gold - 3tg from conflict and high risk areas. i believe that we need an integrated eu approach to these areas and the report on conflict minerals was a proposal that also involves the accountability of all actors involved in this sector and is an important pillar of the integrated eu response. we need to build european capacity in these areas, we need to educate and empower all actors involved, including eu industry, but also governments of states facing local armed conflicts.
in writing. ‒ this directive aims to improve the environmental performance of products at all stages of their life cycle. some materials used in electronic products may lead to environmental and health hazards during their production or at the end of their life cycle. for these reasons, the eu has restricted the use of these materials. the elimination of cadmium is an essential factor in achieving these objectives and the delegated directive seeks to remove the ban on the use of cadmium in lighting and illumination applications of display systems. arguments such as the technical unavailability of cadmium-free quantum dots, given that there is a wide range of tvs based on this technology on the eu market, although the energy-saving properties of cadmium-free quantum dots are similar to those of cadmium, are not sufficiently convincing. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because such a derogation can only be dealt with in the context of a prior assessment, which has not yet been carried out.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of objecting to commission delegated directive of 30 january 2015 amending, for the purposes of adapting to technical progress, annex iii to directive 2011/65/eu of the european parliament and of the council as regards an exemption for cadmium in illumination and display lighting applications, considering the fact that rejection of the delegated directive therefore does not ban cadmium quantum dots, but only triggers a new assessment and that therefore there will be no market distortions, as the current exemption stays valid until revocation, with an additional grace period to be granted thereafter.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report since i believe that the obligation to present a licence for imports of ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin would have a very positive outcome in a still unstable market, which faces strong competition. moreover, this obligation would be extremely useful when it comes to international agreement negotiations and anti-dumping investigations.
in writing. ‒ the family is an important pillar of societal progress, and the sustainability of european society is impossible without a healthy demographic, which means protecting mothers and children. a new perspective and a new approach must be offered beyond the economic issues at stake. the european commission's withdrawal of the proposal to revise this directive would lead to the deprivation of rights enjoyed by millions of women in the eu, as it is a means of protecting women and a guarantor of their rights. i voted in favour of this proposal because i believe that this situation must be resolved and that the union legislators must reach a common agreement that meets the needs and expectations of european families and the european economy.
in writing. ‒ adopting an ambitious directive on maternity leave would have a number of positive results on the quality of european societies, such as increasing the employment rate of women and the birth-rate in europe. i am concerned about the declared intention of the commission to withdraw such an important proposal if the co-legislators do not find a way out of the deadlock within six months. it is about time for the council to engage in dialogue and start negotiations with the european parliament on the maternity leave directive, taking responsibility for refusing the improvements in the safety and health at work of pregnant workers and workers who have recently given birth or are breastfeeding it is clear that if we want to tackle the issue of gender equality we must ensure that both men and women are entitled to the same rights and that women are allowed to balance their family and professional lives. if we believe that social rights are at the heart of european society we cannot overlook having high standards on maternity leave.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i have been arguing for years that we need a common european legislation on maternity leave. as the document adopted today states, the issue of maternity leave, the issue of the apparent inequalities between women and men on several levels, are very big problems for all states, including romania. in this respect, european legislation ensuring equal rights and equality for both parents is imperative on the basis of the principle of giving equal opportunities to all european citizens. in this respect, i regret the impasse in which the negotiations are found, i totally disagree with the current hesitation in the council and support the report's position calling for the unblocking and urgency of the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ today we voted for mothers in the european union to have a guaranteed maternity leave. the european commission has to come up with a new proposal for a directive on maternity leave if it has to withdraw the current proposal, but i hope that the european executive will eventually succeed in reconciling the positions of parliament and the council in favour of mothers. it is not fair that the eu should give up on protecting the rights of pregnant women, especially as a number of women give up their professional plans to have children. europe's population is ageing and we need to ensure that the right conditions are in place to maintain demographic balance. i think that 20 weeks of fully paid maternity leave is not an absurd demand and i hope that member states will make it happen.
in writing. ‒ equality of opportunity is a sine qua non principle of european society. there is no doubt that protecting the rights of mothers and encouraging births are priorities to be pursued in all public policies at european and, by implication, national level. interinstitutional deadlock cannot stand in the way of common sense, natural principles which provide clear rules for the protection of mothers in europe and at the same time provide for equal opportunities between women and men, including in the matter of child rearing. we cannot be discouraged by the council's attitude when we know that women in europe are paid less than men for work of equal value and ignore the cold statistic that they too have pensions 39% lower. it is time to act and it is time for the european council to make the commitments it has to european citizens, commitments which include ensuring the protection of mothers and their rights to maternity leave, either by amending existing directives or by initiating new legislation.
in writing. ‒ whether we are talking about social integration or economic inclusion, people with disabilities need ongoing support. instruments such as the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities at international level or the europe 2020 strategy for persons with disabilities at european level provide a concrete and comprehensive framework governing the situation of respect for the fundamental rights of persons with disabilities. in the context of economic and social integration, it is important to highlight that some 80 million people are often unable to participate fully in social and economic life because of physical and behavioural barriers. people with disabilities are more likely to be socially and economically excluded, so an integrated approach is needed to ensure that they enjoy the same rights. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because we must be aware that every citizen matters and that the problems of inclusion of people with disabilities are a barometer for the respect of human rights in society.
in writing. ‒ considering the fact that the eu is based on the values of human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, persons with disabilities must benefit from measures designed to ensure their independence, social and occupational integration and participation in the life of the community. i truly hope that this resolution will lead to the adoption of the most appropriate and encompassing mechanism to ensure optimal application of the un convention on the right of persons with disabilities. empowering people with disabilities would allow them to fully enjoy their rights and participate in society and in the economy on an equal basis with others.
in writing. ‒ i have supported this report on the rights of persons with disabilities with my vote today. people with disabilities have great difficulty in finding jobs and in achieving equal rights, and unfortunately they are a very vulnerable group in our societies. there is an urgent need for very close cooperation and collaboration at eu level between the european parliament, the council and the commission. however, it is regrettable that in this case the importance of the european parliament was not respected, thus depriving the debate of the input of the citizens. i think that this report highlights many of the problems faced by disabled people without attempting to list them exhaustively. in this respect, i have supported and continue to support this position which seeks to bring citizens' direct participation in the decisions taken on this issue back into the debate.
in writing. i voted for the resolution on the list of issues adopted by the un committee on the rights of persons with disabilities in connection with the initial report of the european union. the commission should come up with an ambitious proposal for a european accessibility act, by fully involving people with disabilities throughout the legislative cycle, and promote their independent living and full inclusion. the recommendation on the use of eu funds to promote accessibility and e-accessibility for people with disabilities, the transition from institutional to community-based care, the development of quality social and health services and investing in capacity building of organisations representing people with disabilities is also welcome.
in writing. ‒ the spread of xylella fastidiosa, which has now affected olive crops in northern italy but is likely to spread to vines, peaches, citrus and ornamental plants in the future, raises a serious alarm about the measures needed to stop its spread and prevent its spread. unfortunately, there is currently no treatment for infected plants and a significant number of wild plants carrying the bacteria do not show visible symptoms, which makes it difficult to identify and stop the spread of the bacterium. in order to prevent the emergence of new outbreaks, they consider that imports from areas where the bacterium has been identified should be prohibited and strict control and monitoring measures should be imposed on plants from suspected areas. i co-signed the resolution on the spread of xylella fastidiosa because i am convinced that we must react firmly and make every effort to create a quarantine procedure to stop the spread of the disease, as its effects can be disastrous for the entire european agricultural sector.
in writing. ‒ the phytosanitary emergency affecting olive groves in southern europe, especially in the apulia region of southern italy, potentially threatening other crops and regions, has assumed unprecedented and serious proportions, with dramatic economic, environmental and social consequences. on 28 april the standing committee for plant health of the european commission adopted a new decision aiming to stop the disease spreading to other regions. also imports of plants from regions known to be susceptible will be subject to strict conditions. member state experts also backed a ban on imports of coffee plants from honduras and costa rica due to the risk from the pest. as a result france has since lifted its ban on plant imports from areas hit by the bacteria in light of the reinforced eu action.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on the 2014 progress report on turkey (2014/2953 (rsp)).
madam president, i should like to say first of all that i am not speaking today as the epp foreign policy coordinator because our group is very divided on the issue of turkey. i just want to recall what i said when, in february, i and other colleagues from the foreign affairs committee went to turkey and met with the highest officials of the country: the president, the prime minister, the minister for european affairs. i told our interlocutors, for example, that we were about to discuss, debate and vote on a resolution on the genocide of the armenians, and as you know, we did. i also told our interlocutors that we would discuss the report of mrs kati piri, who was with us there, and that some of us, at least, are in favour of opening new chapters of negotiations with turkey. and i think we should keep our word. that is why i will vote tomorrow in favour of all those amendments which call for the opening of new chapters: that it is about justice and the rule of law, that it is about energy. i think it is important for us to deepen our dialogue with turkey; on the other hand, we certainly cannot forget the domestic political developments and we are looking forward with great interest to the elections in turkey in a few weeks' time. it's a very sensitive issue related, incidentally, to the peoples democratic party, the pro-kurdish formation. (the president agreed to answer three questions put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one. the epp group is just getting ready to define a very clear position, including on the external dimension of energy security. turkey, for its part, has to choose: i do not think it can have as a partner both the union and the union's strategic adversaries. on the subject of the division of the epp, i will disappoint my colleague, but i will simply say this: we have a shadow rapporteur who has spoken and we shall see tomorrow - this is not the place for a seminar on this subject, but i think it is fair to assume that we are not in agreement on this. finally, on the last issue of opening chapters, my view is that by blocking the opening of new chapters with turkey, we have pushed it to move away from our positions on issues that are essential, and look at the situation in the field of foreign policy. unfortunately, if a few years ago there was a quasi-similarity in foreign policy position, today there is too little overlap, so i think we have to help turkey intelligently and give up the opposition that sometimes comes from nationalist and populist passions, i would add.
madam president, i begin by reiterating the support of the socialist and democrat group for turkey's integration into the european union. i congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent report, on the extraordinary work she has done to achieve the compromises that will enable this report to be adopted. we have a choice between isolating turkey, as some suggest, and engaging in dialogue with it, however difficult that may be. we know that this is the only way we can influence developments in turkey. we have a choice between pushing turkey into the arms of russia or keeping turkey in institutionalized cooperation with the euro-atlantic world. so, from this perspective, i suggest three important directions: 1) cooperation in the humanitarian field, where turkey is already making a significant contribution to taking in the largest number of refugees from syria; 2. cooperation in the field of foreign policy in the fight against terrorism, in stopping the financing of terrorist groups as well as in stopping arms trafficking, identification and isolation of foreign fighters; 3) concludes by arguing the importance of opening chapter xv in the energy field, the only one that will allow us to reduce our dependence on gas imports from a single supplier, namely russia.
doru-claudian frunzulică (s&d), blue-card question. – this may be food for thought for my greek cypriot friends and colleagues, whom i appreciate very much. ms theocharous, do you not think that issues with turkey could be settled more easily within the process of turkey’s accession to the european union? if turkey is kept outside the european union, things will become more difficult. this situation has to be used by all of us.
madam president, i welcome the fact that the motion for a resolution tabled by the committee on foreign affairs and security specifically addresses the importance of reconciliation with the kurdish community and calls on the turkish government to strengthen the cultural and political rights of the kurds and the equal treatment they deserve. i share the view of the committee on foreign affairs that it is important for the european commission to allocate resources under the pre-accession facility to programmes to promote the socioeconomic reintegration of people living in the south-east of turkey in order to strengthen the kurdish settlement process. turkey needs to make progress in many areas during the accession process, one key issue being the rights of national minorities, including the improvement of the situation of the kurdish community. i hope that this area will receive the attention it deserves in the accession process.
madam president, yes, turkey still faces issues in relation to freedom of the press, freedom of justice, internet freedom, the construction of the ilısu dam and the akkuyu nuclear plant. but, at the same time, turkey is a strategic partner of the european union on security and defence issues, on energy security, on economic issues and on foreign policy as well. it is of outstanding strategic importance to the eu in addressing challenges and threats in europe’s eastern and southern neighbourhood. turkey is a bridge between europe, the middle east and asia: a country strong both economically and militarily, and the sole nato member close to the middle east, central asia and the caucasus. the european union needs turkey and turkey needs the european union. all the issues with turkey can be settled in the process of negotiating turkey’s accession to the european union.
mr president, ethiopia is certainly a very important partner of the european union. it is a key state with an important strategic position in the area, although i am deeply concerned that elections in ethiopia will not meet international or african union standards for fairness or credibility due to a repressive political environment and efforts by the ethiopian government to limit political pluralism and the independent media. ethiopia now has the second largest number of journalists in exile in the world, and the highest number of imprisoned journalists in africa. opposition parties have routinely been denied access to state media and prevented from holding public campaign events. the ruling party has used its control over municipal governments to deny permission for opposition rallies and, on several occasions, police have forcibly disbanded and arrested peaceful protesters. these kinds of violations of human rights and the right to freedom are not acceptable and must be formally condemned.
mr president, two months ago when we were discussing macedonia, i said that although it was a progress report on that country, we had difficulty using the word and that it was more a question of stagnation than progress. at the moment, we are all wondering whether this is not something worse, a regression in the face of the continuing political crisis. in fact, the big problem in macedonia is the lack of a culture of compromise, of genuine dialogue. on the one hand, i welcome, as do other members, the fact that a troika in the european parliament (kukan, vajgl, howitt) is trying to unblock the situation, and on the other hand, i wonder what the strategy is of the socialists who, at the same time, with important figures, are in the streets to challenge the government. that's not an easy attitude to read, both in negotiation and on the street. i am glad that mrs lunacek is interested in the relationship between the epp and the rule of law, in the big issues, but i would also like the same attitude to develop towards socialist prime ministers in europe and governments which have convicted ministers in their ranks, for example in romania. you may not have heard of it, but i think we have to be fair and not use the street to demolish institutions, and this is not the question of the epp, it is a very serious political crisis. i would add, contrary to what the socialists, liberals and greens say, that there is an ethnic dimension to this political crisis, and it is very dangerous. it is not enough to hear the socialists, liberals and greens say that this is not an ethnic problem. you know very well that the area could explode at any moment. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is "blue card" to ulrike lunacek. madam, what to answer to all this? i do not want to turn this debate, which concerns a very serious political crisis in a country which is very important to us, into a debate on the epp group. i do not think that the right attitude to unblock political crises is to find scapegoats because you are now politically weaker and you want to occupy the political agenda, you greens. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". i agree, sir, we must focus on macedonia. however, we must never forget that we can also do harm by encouraging solutions in the balkans, in different countries, which are more of an ideological improvisation. unfortunately, we have had many examples of this in the recent past.
madam president, the eastern partnership is marked by something strange because before the vilnius summit in november 2013, there was already talk of the failure of that summit. we may have the same attitude now, a few hours before the opening, because some people are talking about failure. but, in the end - and we now know this - the vilnius summit was not a failure, if we take account, as some colleagues have already said, of the results that can be drawn since 2013. the signing of the association agreements, the progress made in facilitating visas and a whole series of other developments were mentioned. we are all aware that the societies to which the eastern partnership policy applies are not only looking for an assessment of the recent past but also for a promise, a message, a commitment for the future. i think that's our strength. i think we need to talk about the future. we must define a political ideal and a political commitment of europe to these eastern partnership countries. otherwise, with our pessimism and self-stigmatisation, we will not be able to resist russian propaganda which has only one message and one definition of the eastern partnership, namely an enterprise against moscow. that's what they say. i think we need courage in the face of this. it takes the courage of commitment and it takes a very clear view of the european future of the eastern partnership countries. it would be a pity if we were more modest in our proposals today than we were two or four years ago in warsaw. here's what i'm going to do.
madam president, since the last summit on the eastern partnership in vilnius many things have changed with our eastern partners and in particular those that signed association agreements with the eu and which are confronted with dramatically increasing external pressure. in ukraine, in fact, this external pressure is a war, with no insignia and russian troops spending their ʽholidaysʼ in eastern ukraine in armoured vehicles. the eu is seen as, and should concretely represent for the eastern partnership countries, a reliable partner which stands by them, helps them in their effort for reforms but also acknowledges their progress when this has been made. low ambition in riga will mean a dramatic impact – a negative one – on europe and on our eastern side. i call on both sides, the commission and the member states, to make sure that the riga summit sends the positive message our eastern partners need. the eu cannot and must not suffocate the expectations and aspirations of our partners and their people, but must rather encourage and compensate their efforts, show them that the european integration path is even more open than before and offer them messages and opportunities that can also counter the heavy pressure from russian propaganda. from this point, i see a clear and important step that should be taken, namely the free visa regime for georgia and ukraine. let us not give something else, but something we can do and which should be done according to the efforts those countries have made. it is the first and the most important sign that their future lies with europe and we should continuously fight for this. finally, i unconditionally back, and i proudly join, the letter initiated by our colleague, mr auštrevičius.
madam president, as we speak history is being written and age-defining changes are under way. in the coming years, we should be able to look back to now with the conviction that we did the right thing and provided the right response to the critical challenges facing eastern europe. i will focus on the element of ambitions and membership perspective: we need to do more for those who have real and tangible european ambitions, for those who have decided on the european path. of course, much needs to be done, and words are less credible than concrete and tangible actions, but the eu should send a clear signal to moldova, georgia and ukraine that their future is with the 28 member states as long as they genuinely fulfil their obligations and show real commitment to the association agreements’ reform agenda. we cannot ask them to implement harsh reforms without having light at the end of the tunnel. if they deliver, they should be considered serious candidates on the road to the eu.
madam president, ms kalniņa-lukaševica said that we, the european union, are offering a genuine partnership to these three countries. unfortunately, we are offering less than expected. we are making a step back in comparison with the last eastern partnership in vilnius. these countries need a real european perspective. this is what they are looking for and, unfortunately, at this summit that is going to start tomorrow, we are transforming these three countries into kind of buffer states. it is a step back; like a concession offered to russia. also, i agree with the council in supporting the earliest possible ratification by all member states of the association agreements and the deep and comprehensive free trade area with georgia, moldova and ukraine. these agreements are fundamental in order to strengthen political association and economic integration.
in writing. promoting state-building and consolidating the rule of law for partner countries is an important area of multilateral cooperation in the eastern partnership. this is particularly important in the light of the situation in ukraine, where it is in all our interests, in addition to upholding our security policy objectives, to see ukraine emerge from the crisis stronger. it is not only necessary for the economic renewal of the country, but also for the stability of the institutional system, the reduction of corruption and the genuine application of the rule of law. in this context and as time goes on, we must speak more and more often about the part of the minsk agreement that deals with constitutional reform, decentralisation and the guarantee of the rights of national minorities. i think that these issues cannot be avoided at the eastern partnership summit.
madam president, the eu-celac summit is fundamental in order to strengthen relations between european, latin-american and caribbean countries. this will be a useful platform to discuss regional and global issues with our partners. hopefully this year we will have the chance to talk about eu-cuba relations, about the venezuela situation and about the colombian peace process, as well as about the trade agreement with mexico and the revitalisation of trade agreements with mercosur. i completely agree with ms mogherini when she states that we share cultural and historical roots and a wish for peace and prosperity. i would also like to underline the importance of the eurolat parliamentary assembly to strengthening the monitoring of democracy and legitimisation as part of cooperation between countries.
madam president, i would like to start by welcoming the decision to supplement the pre-financing of the youth employment initiative. for maximum impact, i encourage the commission to devote even more resources to programmes aimed at combating unemployment, with a focus on encouraging entrepreneurship among young people and women, and to work together with the member states, the european investment fund, the european investment bank to set up an advisory group to develop financing mechanisms for new businesses by young people and women in each member state. this will facilitate their development. this is the only way to keep their creative ideas in the european union. as for the education system, in my opinion, it should be grounded in reality and as practical as possible. to achieve this, we must urge member states to improve and intensify relations between the main actors involved, namely governments, employers, public or private educational institutions and, not least, civil society organisations in each member state. as a youth representative, i believe that schools should offer graduates a real start and ensure that they make a smooth transition into the workplace.
madam president, seven million unemployed young people, seven million people whose future is in question - a project like the youth employment initiative should have created new jobs, especially in the disadvantaged areas. in contrast, projects are missing, even though the pre-financing rate for them has increased. we can no longer afford to wait for the member states to wake up. therefore, if the states are not able, i propose that these funds be transformed into programmes managed directly by the european union and into grants and de minimis aid for young people, schools or the employing company. we need to realise that unemployed young people can no longer wait for national bureaucracies to move and need measures that are easy to understand, use and access. every day that passes is more than a procedural step and a day in the lives of seven million young europeans who have lost hope of living a normal life. because some of the member states don't care!
in writing. both as a romanian mep and as a representative of the romanian social democratic youth, i know that young europeans have remained in a period of crisis. while europe has largely overcome the period of unjustified austerity and the economic and financial crisis, young europeans are today in an identity crisis. unemployment, although starting to decline in some member states, is still high enough to raise serious questions about the future of europe. the european youth initiative, built on the european youth guarantee, a programme proposed by s&d and pes, needs shock measures to deliver better results. the emergency funding of measures to assist young people in member states where unemployment among young people is high is very important. we want to have the tools to offer every young european a job, a training programme, an internship or an apprenticeship within four months of completing their last form of education or becoming unemployed. if we want to put the accelerator on, we should do it now, through pre-financing funds allocated by the commission under the european youth initiative.
madam president, the matter of whaling activities in japan is absolutely not of subsidiary importance and cannot be left out in our talks with japan. our reason is that the protection of biodiversity and of the environment is at the core of our european principles and values and, if we do not want to be called irresponsible, incoherent and weak, we must always take this into consideration in our relationship with other countries. this is a matter of having the holistic ambitious and far-sighted view that we owe to european citizens and to the entire world population. moreover, i believe we must think twice before skipping talks on important matters and before engaging with a partner that does not respect international law. japan must comply with the spirit and the letter of the international court of justice ruling and refrain from further whaling activities in the antarctic until such time as the international whaling commission gives a contrary opinion – all the more so given our shared interest in the rules—based international order and effective multilateralism. i do not understand nor support the exclusion of an environmental interest in our talks with japan. we should honestly represent our citizens’ concerns, make their voices heard and solve this issue once and for all. i therefore strongly invite vice—president mogherini to raise this issue at the upcoming eu-japan summit on 29 may.
blue-card question. – mr loones, do you think that the juncker plan, in the end, is going to improve the european union’s economy and is going to create jobs?
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure. mr president, you have certainly criticised what the commission is doing - i do not agree with everything either. but in your speech you didn't say anything about investing more in smes to have jobs in greece and to get greece out of recession. don't you think hedge funds should have geographical criteria?
member of the commission.– mr president, i would like to thank my dear colleague ms toia for her question and for her contribution. i am here just to deliver the following statement on behalf of commissioner miguel arias cañete who unfortunately cannot be here today. the commission shares the view of the european parliament that acer will play a key role in the compilation and proper functioning of the internal energy market (iem). the implementation by acer of the remit which ensures the effective monitoring of the wholesale energy market is essential for the functioning of the iem. the commission is committed to ensuring that the agency is adequately equipped to perform all its relevant tasks. it has so far ensured that the level of funding allocated to the agency is sufficient and will be vigilant and propose additional funding when these prove necessary. when carrying out its assessment, the commission will also consider the energy union framework strategy adopted in february this year, 2015, which has further emphasised acer’s role in completing the eu’s internal energy market.
blue-card question. – madam president, there is something i would like to understand, because it seems that for mr kariņš the issue is only the number of staff of acer. is it possible to speak only about the number of staff when talking about the task to detect and deter market abuse? is that the only issue?
madam president, if we really want to achieve a european energy union we need to fully liberalise the 28 national energy markets, to ensure the integration of these markets by achieving their physical interconnection, but we also need to harmonise national regulations and monitor these markets. we therefore need to strengthen the work of this european agency, both in terms of coordinating the work of national agencies and in terms of monitoring energy markets. we cannot accept negative practices such as those which assign additional tasks to the agency without also allocating the necessary resources. they de-motivate staff and dilute responsibility.
madam president, energy security must be a permanent concern for the european union and the member states. this requires close cooperation between countries to enable them to identify common, cross-border solutions, thus giving them the opportunity to rapidly develop their own energy resources. we are in a period where we are faced with threats and constraints due to energy dependence, and some member states are being forced to make a series of compromises to meet their domestic energy needs, but at very high costs. the regulatory measures imposed by remit on the wholesale energy market must ensure the security of the information transmitted and remove any suspicion of market manipulation. that is why we believe that acer must be strong enough - and here we emphasise: well-sized - to have the capacity to cooperate effectively with the national authorities and the competent financial authorities. this will enable the exchange of information between the two parties, enabling the commission to monitor transactions, assess and identify abuses with a view to remedying them.
madam president, i believe that the european union agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) has a key role for the transparency of the wholesale energy market. acer estimates it needs another 45 full—time staff to effectively monitor energy transactions and thus prevent fraud and market manipulation, which has a negative effect on energy prices and consumer trust. considering that the commission has so far only allocated 15 new staff members, i agree that, in order to effectively carry out an important task such as detecting and deterring market abuse, the commission should allocate sufficient resources.
mr president, state-sponsored violence in zimbabwe has reduced since more than 200 people were killed during the disputed 2008 elections. i am wondering how many people must be killed before state-sponsored violence in zimbabwe disappears once and for all. the forced disappearance of civil society activist itai dzamara echoes the darkest days of zimbabwe’s political instability. it is only the latest of events that show how in zimbabwe a worsening of human rights and democracy is taking place, as well as harassment and abuses against human rights defenders, journalists and members of civil society. i stand by the 83 courageous civil society organisations that called for the immediate release of itai dzamara, otherwise demanding the resignation of president robert mugabe. finally, i call on the responsible authorities to stop ignoring the high court and to comply with this ruling, taking all the necessary measures to find mr itai dzamara and bring all those responsible to justice. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– on many occasions in the committee on development i have maintained that the european union has to use the leverage of humanitarian aid and of development aid for all these african countries, and other countries, led by dictators, where they do not respect human rights, they do not respect the law – they respect nothing. we should, indeed, use all necessary leverage to put all such countries on the right path to respecting international law and the law in general.
on behalf of the ppe group.– mr president, as is the case with the migrant crisis in the mediterranean, we can state that the exodus by boat of myanmar’s muslim residents is not a new phenomenon. in 2009, for example, many rohingya refugees were rescued after 21 days at sea. similar root causes behind this mass movement of people can also be distinguished, namely poverty, violence and persecution. here as well, the most vulnerable groups are victims of human trafficking, of which the recent discovery of mass graves in thailand is a gruesome testimony. the last parallel is the potential loss of credibility, not only for the asean countries involved who are benefiting from the gcp scheme, but also for the eu if it decides to ignore these violations of international human rights law. the european external action service should put pressure on myanmar to grant genuine citizenship to the rohingya and should encourage all countries concerned to develop a solid cooperation scheme that aims at tackling the human trafficking networks.
mr president, the discovery of mass graves in thailand and the appalling situation of the rohingya refugees adrift in south-east asia are a humanitarian disaster. thousands of migrants are still reported to be trapped by smugglers for weeks. we cannot help drawing parallels here with the refugee crisis we are facing in the mediterranean. whether in south asia or the mediterranean, the only possible solution is a regional one. we must therefore encourage all the countries of the region to take part in the bangkok conference next week in an attempt to achieve an integrated solidarity mechanism. we must not turn the ball over and disengage from the problem as burma is unfortunately doing. the agreement reached yesterday between malaysia, indonesia and thailand, which provides for humanitarian assistance and the temporary reception of migrants, is a positive development, but the lasting solution obviously requires granting civil rights to the rohingya, who are persecuted in burma. i would add a word because i proposed not to move the debate on the urgent debate to the morning on the grounds that there are more people in the afternoon. we have proof of this today, as we are fewer than in the afternoon. we must return to the debate on emergencies in the afternoon.
mr president, we all know that rohingya are one of the most persecuted populations in the world. they continue to be smuggled through thailand and from other countries in the region by human traffickers and held captive in inhuman conditions in jungle camps in the south of thailand, where they are tortured, starved and beaten to death. we must cooperate with these countries to put an end to these atrocities and to this extremely serious violation of human rights. i strongly encourage myanmar to grant full citizenship to its rohingya minority and grant them equal access to services. moreover, i find it unacceptable that refugees are pushed back into the sea. this is a violation of international law and human rights law and we should take it into consideration in the next talks with thailand, indonesia and malaysia.
mr president, i believe it is very important that international solidarity is expressed to the political opponents who have been imprisoned by swaziland’s monstrous royal decree. we cannot turn a blind eye to the conditions of political prisoners. this is a matter of human dignity and social justice. swaziland engaged itself, under the cotonou agreement, to respect democracy, the rule of law and human rights principles, which include freedom of expression and freedom of the media. the government should stand by the promises it made, take concrete measures to respect and promote freedom of expression, guarantee democracy and plurality, and establish a legislative framework allowing the full participation of political parties in line with international and regional human rights obligations. the authorities of swaziland should guarantee, in all circumstances, the physical and psychological integrity of swazi political and civil rights prisoners and release them without delay.
in writing. ‒ the common security and defence policy emerged and developed as a natural consequence of the process of european integration, as the benefits of joint action under the union's aegis became apparent at international level. it is essentially the sum of decisions taken jointly by the member states concerning their relations through the union with the other actors in the international system. the european security environment, especially in the eastern and southern neighbourhood of the european union, is increasingly unstable and volatile due to the number of challenges. a number of conflicts, such as those in eastern ukraine, syria and iraq, the rise of the terrorist organisation isis, the crisis in libya or the terrorist threat in africa, pose direct threats to the security of the european union. i voted in favour of this report because the common security and defence policy provides a framework for cooperation within which the european union can carry out operational missions in third countries, the main objective of these missions being to maintain peace and strengthen international security.
in writing. ‒ the report has a particular importance in view of the preparations for the june 2015 council meeting on the common security and defence policy – a meeting that should sum up the efforts made in the last one and a half years (since the previous december 2013 meeting) aimed at making the csdp more efficient. the text is aimed at tackling a few aspects of interest: an assessment of the overall security context to clarify if the csdp has become a real priority; to evaluate the situation in the csdp missions and operations; and to assess the situation of the capabilities and of the eu defence industry.
in writing. – with the new appointment of federica mogherini as the new vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, interest in the csdp has risen and most likely will be reflected by a development boost of the csdp. i have voted for this report because it will implement a more pronounced stance towards conflict prevention at european union level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text as i support the overall line it draws, despite the fact that in my own view we should be doing much more in the wake of the ukrainian crisis. the report does note accurately some main issues and i believe our efforts in the eu should go towards solving these problems: we need to have real political will to contribute troops and money to eu strategic efforts; we need to use what we have, such as the battlegroups; we need to act more in actual strategic ways, involving ourselves more in areas where we can make a real difference rather than being there when the crisis is over. and finally, the official language needs to stop being so self-congratulatory for minimalistic efforts, like low-scale training missions, when there are so many security crises worldwide with a direct impact on the prosperity and security of europe.
in writing. ‒ at a time when we are increasingly faced with various external threats, the european union's security and defence policy requires a reassessment in order to strengthen our crisis intervention and response capabilities. the most recent example, the mediterranean migrant crisis, highlights limited capacity and the lack of coordinated action by member states. operation triton, in which no less than 20 member states participated, has exposed the shortcomings of the union in the area of the security of the external borders. in order to address the terrorist threats, which have become more frequent in recent times, concrete measures are required to increase the effectiveness, visibility and impact of the csdp. new threats such as cyber-attacks, border vulnerabilities and communication security need to be considered. strengthening planning and rapid response capacity for coordinated mission delivery is achieved through more comprehensive defence investment and more effective management of existing assets. member states should also endeavour to develop the european defence industry by enhancing civil and military research collaboration.
in writing. ‒ the eu has to assume its role at global level not only from the economic and political point of view, but as well from the security point of view. that comes particularly at a moment when the level of security challenges for eu have increased and, consequently, strengthening the csdp is more than ever a must. a new method is necessary to be adopted as regards the financing of the csdp missions and operations in order to increase their efficiency. the priority stays in developing a financial mechanism for the deployment of the eu civilian missions and military operations in a faster and more flexible way, while having the full logistical and financial support in order to fulfil the objectives they are entrusted with. that is why, among others, we need to alleviate today’s very bureaucratic system of procurement. the permanent csdp warehouse should quickly be upgraded by enlarging its scope and by improving the availability of stored equipment, and enlarge, as well, the diversity of it.
in writing. – the idea of a common defence policy for europe dates back to 1948 when the uk, france, and the benelux signed the treaty of brussels. csdp was on the agenda of the december 2013 european council meeting when the heads of states discussed how to enhance defence capabilities, strengthen the defence industry and improve the effectiveness, visibility and impact of the csdp. now, this report will bring new concrete measures, pragmatic solutions, cost savings/efficiency-increasing initiatives, transparency and accountability. as shadow rapporteur, i have voted for this report calling for a strengthened cooperation mechanism between member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this very important budgetary text due to the need we have in the european union for member states to start listening to the recommendations found within. we have, collectively, one of the worldʼs largest defence expenditure budgets, yet individually our member states are badly underfinanced in terms of the helsinki headline goals. we have significant potential and we are wasting it by refusing to cooperate, by having joint programmes only in the least sensitive areas and by allowing nationalistic, limited mindsets to prevail in our defence ministries. the european union needs to start planning and spending money in a comprehensively complementary way. we need to stop duplication or even investing in obsolete capacities and to start using our financial resources, which are quite ample if we look at the total figure, in a realistic way.
in writing. ‒ defence policy is one of the european union's most important instruments in an international and regional context marked by increased instability and a high level of threats to the national security of many of the european union's members. i welcome the call for a stronger dimension to the common security and defence policy the objectives of this policy are unattainable if the resources available are not adequate. i also believe that there is a need for increased cooperation between the civil and military spheres. the instrumental nature of the common security and defence policy is best served by close cooperation between the two levels. it is also important that the actions taken under this policy correspond to the current security concerns of the member states. a faster and more flexible approach is beneficial. however, this change is essentially dependent on the allocation of additional financial resources and i support in this context the extension of the eligible costs under the athena mechanism.
in writing. ‒ in an environment characterised by a significant increase in the number of armed conflicts, low-intensity crises, hybrid or intermediate war, failed states or frequent human rights violations in the immediate neighbourhood of the european union, but also by the threat of terrorism inside and outside the eu, an approach in a coordinated and unified manner at union level is necessary. particular attention should be paid to the impact of certain projects on the autonomy and independence of the european union, and member states should give priority to the military or defence industries and provide incentives for their development, to the extent that european union legislation allows. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the success of csdp peacekeeping and security missions depends on the achievement of a european defence market to eliminate overlaps and reduce red tape.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report since it aims at building an innovative and competitive european industry and making the best possible use of the security and defence budget. i agree on the idea that the commission and the member states must take defence procurement into account when negotiating international trade agreements. moreover, i support the idea that the commission should step up its efforts to achieve a level playing field in european defence markets in order to fight protectionist practices by member states by promoting cross-border cooperation and better access to defence industry supply chains.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report concerning the impact of developments in european defence markets on the security and defence capabilities in europe (2015/2037((ini)). recent events in europe show an increasing need to strengthen the defence potential of all 28 member states. security is an issue which concerns us all and this is why security threats need to be addressed in a transparent and coordinated fashion. defence spending at eu level is eur 190 billion – an enormous amount of money. the defence budgets are being spent in a very inefficient way due to delays and incoordination. this money is tax payers’ money. not having a common defence market implies the risk of corruption in public procurement. this is why i support a common security defence framework in order to enable the union to deal efficiently with security threats, ensure eu competition and at the same time to protect the money of the citizens.
in writing. – taking into consideration the current political threats at the eu’s eastern borders, the alarming decrease of development in the defence market due to budget cuts, and growing external dependencies, i have voted for this report in order to re—establish european autonomy through increased cooperation and co—ordination between member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted for ms gomesʼ report as it highlights the very real risk of fragmentation in the european defence market at a point where we might need it more than in the past 20 years. with rising violent extremism, failed states, instability in our neighbourhood and armed aggression against our partner countries, we cannot afford that each member state decides unilaterally to cut defence budgets, abandon defence research and development or, perhaps even worse, duplicate the capabilities of other member states which they could share together, saving a great deal of money. we cannot afford either for many states to keep buying or reconditioning obsolete technologies from outside the european markets, and i believe the 2009 defence package should be a main priority for implementation in all the member states which have not yet done so.
mr president, i will also add my voice and ask the conference of presidents to consider the possibility of declaring a conflict of interests to be present when any politician or political party in this house gets loans from abroad. this is the case with the front national and i will ask personally the conference of presidents to consider this very seriously.
madam president, the rise of the terrorist threat must cause the g7 summit to have as its main agenda the tightening of the rules against the financing of terrorism at the international level. to this end, an effective analysis of the tracking and combating of payment methods and instruments targeting terrorist groups is needed. we see today that fundamentalist militants of the islamic state are providing substantial revenues to finance their military campaigns in syria and iraq, from trading in various forms of oil and natural gas from isis-controlled territories. this requires urgent and firm measures to ban these transactions, considering that blocking the accounts of those cooperating with islamic militants is a necessary solution to eradicate these actions. unfortunately, some eu states are unable to effectively protect their borders, opening doors for waves of migrants, creating vulnerabilities for the entire eu, given that the masks of migrants can be hidden by islamic state fighters. furthermore, we note that in the neighbourhood of the european union, more precisely in the republic of moldova, suspected persons with links to the islamic state have been identified. cryptocurrencies are another vulnerability that terrorist groups exploit. all these aspects should lead to the g7 summit focusing on what it means for all states to join forces to strengthen security in order to combat terrorist groups effectively.
in writing.– i believe it is of the utmost importance that, at the next g7 summit, world leaders will discuss how to achieve sustainable growth in the face of record debt levels, as well as how to regulate the financial markets and how to improve cooperation on international tax policy. i hope that the g7 ministers will follow up on their commitment to reach a deal on climate change that is ambitious, robust and inclusive, in order to be effective in limiting the increase in global temperature to 20c above the pre-industrial level.
in writing.– this summit takes place against a background of increasing geopolitical tensions, and it should tackle the pressing issues of our time. i consider that there are some priorities which should be addressed at the forthcoming summit besides foreign and security policy and sustainable economic growth. of course, the g7 should work to ensure peace and security: the ongoing conflict in ukraine and the threat posed by isis should be at the top of the agenda. the implementation of the minsk agreement should be evaluated, and we must tighten checks on suspected terrorist financing. however, infrastructure modernisation and development research should also be on the agenda, and we should not forget the struggle against tax fraud and tax avoidance. the initial expectations are high and we need to see concrete results.
mr president, i congratulate marc tarabella on his work on this report. i believe that the current structure of the two programmes leads to an efficient reinforcement of the educational dimension of young people to know food and its source, to increase the consumption of selected agricultural products and to train healthy eating, thus improving the perception of agriculture and its products. the mandatory educational measures proposed by the commission to accompany the distribution of fruit, vegetables and milk in schools are welcome and, like the rapporteur, i believe it is essential to promote a healthy and balanced diet from an early age, by re-teaching young people to know food and its origin, to become familiar with its taste and texture and to get closer to local producers. that's why i support this report, and if i were to summarize the reasons, they would be about health, education, support for fruit, vegetable and dairy farmers, but also support for local producers and local markets.
in writing. almost one third of european children are overweight or obese. that is why i would first of all like to underline the important educational role of the school fruit and vegetables scheme and hope for the best possible implementation in the member states. the creation of a common legal framework for the two programmes is welcome, especially in view of the situation in the dairy and fruit sectors, which are heavily affected by the russian embargo. i also welcome the commission's proposal on flexibility. it is essential that member states are able to transfer funds between programmes to respond to the challenges faced by indigenous sectors. but i would like to draw attention to the importance of using short supply chains in the distribution of milk and fruit in schools. it's crucial that students are connected to farmers and agricultural production. it is also important that the products are distributed as naturally as possible, without added sweeteners, and that the fruit is fresh and, if possible, locally grown and as naturally as possible, without pesticides and chemical fertilizers. i hope that there will be a rapid agreement between the institutions on this regulation and that the member states will successfully implement it.
mr president, european development aid must have the objective of reaching the ones most in need, and considering the situation in eritrea the eu delegation must closely monitor the use of this funding. it is clear that increasing political dialogue with the government about human rights on the basis of article 8 of the cotonou agreement is needed as well as an increase in direct support to the civil society and human rights defenders. it seems that the un commission of inquiry on human rights in eritrea has had no cooperation from the eritrean regime and that this commission has not been granted access to the country. these facts raise concerns about the decision to triple the aid given to eritrea. there seems to be no evidence of any real change in terms of human rights in eritrea. the european commission should halt its implementation of the aid package until the un commission of inquiry on eritrea has been given access to the country in order to assess the situation.
in writing. the eu reduced its aid to eritrea from eur 226 million in 2005 to just eur 14 million in 2013. political instability in eritrea was one of the reasons for the eu's decision to suspend its aid payments in 2011. the eu stands with those who fight for democracy and respect for human rights. as a major international donor, the eu has a duty to address social and economic exclusion in migrants' countries of origin in an attempt to stop the current crisis. the number of migrants is increasing; in the first two months of 2015 alone, the number of migrants arriving in the eu through italy increased by 43% compared to the same period in 2014.
madam president, the attack on french tv channel tv5monde on wednesday, 8 april highlighted europe’s vulnerability to high—tech cyber criminality. i believe that these attacks signal a new level of threat to western media as well as civil and military networks, and we cannot find the eu unprepared. we must focus on securing key eu networks – transportation, energy, financial or healthcare networks. we must achieve cyber resilience as well as a common high level of security. i support options such as requirements for eu countries to provide national nis strategies and for the constitution of agencies to facilitate cross-border cooperation at eu level. i hope that soon i will hear from the commission and from the council about how they intend to implement cyber-security strategy.
in writing. cyberattacks against the media represent a new threat to cybersecurity, aimed at generating terror and threatening one of the fundamental institutions of democracy. these attacks demonstrate, once again, that no one is immune from danger and prove that today's terrorism and cybercrime can have devastating effects that directly affect citizens. the european commission and the member states need to adopt rapid solutions to improve cybersecurity at european level. this, in my view, requires better cooperation between national and european institutions, with a real link between efforts to combat such dangers together. i am pleased that my country, romania, is at the forefront of the fight against cyberattacks, through its highly qualified specialists and institutions, and i take this opportunity to suggest again to the european institutions the creation of a european cybersecurity body based in romania.
mr president, traditions, especially those of indigenous and minority groups, are essential as they often embody the continuous existence of a community. however, as we saw a couple of years ago, certain countries tried to push through a process to legitimise the concept of ‘traditional values of humankind’ as the basis for human rights law at the human rights council, led by the russian federation. there is an inherent danger to making ‘traditional values’ the standard for human rights. not only do these values evolve constantly, they are also difficult and dangerous to define. it is within this context that culture cannot be used to undermine the universality of the human rights principles, which are applicable to the practice of early and forced marriage of girls. firstly, the eu ensures that gender equality is on the agenda in every dialogue with third countries, especially for development cooperation. however, it should keep on mainstreaming gender equality in all policy areas and programmes, especially inside the union. too many girls in europe are still deprived of their right to education, because they are forced into marriage. secondly, there is an urgent need for reliable data on forced marriages inside the european union. lastly, parliament has urged the commission in the past to promote the national ratification of the istanbul convention and even launched the procedure for the eu’s accession to it. i urge commissioner jourová to pursue this as a priority so that the battle against forced and early marriages can take place in a harmonised way across the entire european union.
mr. president, according to united nations population fund statistics, 14.2 million young girls under the age of eighteen are or will be married each year between 2011 and 2020 in developing countries, mainly sub-saharan africa and south asia, which represents 39,000 forced marriages every day. the percentage is staggering, and the statistics don't stop there: one in four teenage girls is married against her will between the ages of fourteen and eighteen; one in nine young girls is married by force between the ages of ten and fourteen; one in two girls gives birth to a baby while still a teenager in developing countries. we should also not forget that in 2009 more than half of the world's population, or 50.6%, lived on less than 0.70 euros a day, which encourages forced marriages for young girls who are still seen as a source of income for their families. in fact, in these countries, girls and teenage girls are objects that their parents dispose of and sell to their future husbands. if we consider that about 36 percent of children over six have never been to school, and where schools exist, the average class size is 129 students, we understand that in these countries marriage is often a solution or perhaps the only possible solution to survive for young women without education. ..the president interrupted the speaker. ) the rapporteur agreed to answer a question raised after the blue card had been raised, in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).
answer to a question asked under the 'blue card' procedure. the european union certainly has cooperation agreements with these countries in many cases, but i think we have to consider the focus on education that would allow young women to survive and look for work, which would be an alternative, this situation of course having other alternatives, which were exposed by the speakers before me.
madam president, i truly hope that the commission is going to carry out a concrete plan of action with a view to ending child marriage. many girls who become pregnant early have to cope with dangerous risks to their health and to that of their children. the majority of these girls are forced to leave school before finishing primary school, and many suffer from violence and sexual abuse. it is important to establish information and awareness-raising campaigns in communities in which this gender-based human rights violation is practised. these girls often see their role in the world only as baby-makers. we must change that, start discussions on these issues and help the girls make the right choices. i would also like to transmit a message to the commission and to the commissioner present here: as mentioned before, we face this situation in europe as well, not only in developing countries. look at some muslim communities in europe and the roma communities as well. we should also address these issues in the european union.
in writing. where do we draw the line between tradition and law? can tradition and culture transcend the norms we hold to be valid and which we reinforce through laws, regulations and constitutions? child marriage is a well-known problem in europe among traditionalist communities. a lot of cases are being reported in the roma communities and a lot of cases are leading to abuse and risks to minors that we cannot accept as such. tradition is no longer an argument when the safety, health and integrity of minors are called into question. the european commission must intervene, including through the framework outlined by the istanbul convention on the elimination of violence against women, together with member states, to stop forced child marriages. we need clear commitments from all european institutions against a phenomenon that stops the natural development of children in europe, which robs the fundamental right to a normal life, to freedom and to equality for many minors. all children have the right to a happy and carefree childhood. all children have the right to education and protection, and the european union has an obligation to make this legal framework accessible to all children, regardless of ethnicity or cultural background.
mr president, romania's entry into the schengen area is not only a necessity, but also an act of justice. the recent waves of migrants demonstrate that there are countries in the european union which, although they belong to the schengen area, have serious problems securing their borders, and the european authorities are obliged to take urgent measures in the spirit of human solidarity, which is also natural, by setting quotas of migrants for each country. it is unclear, however, why romania is denied access to the schengen area, even though its borders are very secure, meeting the technical conditions, being the provider of security in southeastern europe. we have obligations and we fulfill them, but we don't understand why our rights are not respected. and the romanians need firm answers. when will the principle of mutual solidarity apply to rights as well as obligations? i think romania's entry into the schengen area must be done immediately, otherwise those responsible will prove that the double language is at home here in europe and we do not want that.
mr president, the european union is developing, but in economic, social and infrastructure terms the development gaps are closing far too slowly. however, i believe that cohesion remains the most important project of the union. in this regard, i would like to make a plea for the support and rapid and effective adoption of one of the most complex strategic and programmatic projects in the region of central and eastern europe. the commission notes that the romanian authorities have not provided any evidence that the measure is necessary to achieve the objective of common interest. the idea of developing infrastructure in the european union's border areas on the basis of a strategy must also start from the need to bring east and west closer together and to reduce the obvious infrastructure gaps between these macro-regions. my appeal to the european commission is to have a vision of developing and supporting infrastructure in the countries bordering the european union and by implication to support those member states that have strategies and projects in this regard.
madam president, in order to turn europe into a circular economy, boost recycling, secure access to raw materials and create jobs and economic growth, the commission adopted a waste framework directive that sets the recycling targets for the member states. unfortunately, romania has a landfill rate exceeding 90% and is very far from reaching the targets. considering the low rates of compliance with the directive in romania, i would point out that urgent measures need to be taken to put romania on the green map. citizens are willing to participate in the selective collection of packaging if they are properly informed and if there is proper collection infrastructure. penalising waste disposal to landfill through a dumping tax, improving sanitation law and enhancing cooperation between all those involved in recycling systems are steps that need to be taken, and they must be taken into account for the implementation of a much-needed strategic view of romania’s waste management system.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal to open interinstitutional negotiations to amend the school fruit, vegetables and milk aid scheme, as i see a drastic decline in fruit and dairy consumption among young people and the existing aid programmes have not been as successful as hoped. the commission has also identified a number of obstacles to the implementation of the aid schemes, such as cumbersome bureaucracy at member state level and the inability to extend the objectives of the programmes to trainers. we are now facing an avalanche of processed foods and fast food, which has turned young people away from fresh produce. i believe that support schemes should be extended to younger ages because it is essential to train nutritional behaviour from pre-school level. i believe that the aim of the aid schemes should be extended to trainers by allocating a significant percentage to educational measures. information programmes should include trainers and parents. limiting them to the level of educational institutions will not produce the expected results. school programmes should have as their main objective the support of indigenous producers and the promotion of local agricultural potential. i would stress that encouraging local producers contributes to the development of short production chains and promotes the consumption of indigenous products and agricultural products.
in writing. ‒ i think that the unification of the two school fruit and milk programmes and the creation of a common legal framework is welcome, given the situation in the fruit and dairy sectors, which are heavily affected by the russian embargo.
in writing. ‒ this report is fundamental, as it examines the need to continue and strengthen efforts to combat childhood obesity and encourage healthy eating habits early in life. this is a very important issue to tackle, since childhood obesity is increasing across the eu and healthier eating habits need to be encouraged early. schemes for distributing healthy products, and supporting educational measures about their use, must be combined and streamlined to become more effective tools in the work to promote healthier eating among young people. in order to support this programme thoroughly, i reject the idea of introducing cocoa into the list of products. i believe that the use by member states of between 10% and 20% of the fund for educational measures and activities, including farm visits and the distribution of local, regional and national products, such as honey, olive oil, dried fruits and processed fruit and vegetables, is a very positive proposal that needs to be encouraged.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of opening negotiations and the mandate for interinstitutional negotiations on the aid scheme for the supply of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk to educational establishments. this decision paves the way for a quality-based food program designed to improve the quality of children's nutrition.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of opening interinstitutional negotiations for this aid programme because i strongly believe that it can bring many benefits both for the health of our children and for agriculture in romania. the two programmes, which have been separate until now, for the supply of fruit and vegetables to educational establishments on the one hand and milk on the other, were developed at different times, on different bases, with different budgets, but with the same objectives: to educate children in terms of food by familiarizing them with healthy and fresh products. analyses have shown that the original objectives are still valid, but the programmes suffer from a lack of coordination. in this respect, i support the integration of the two from a legislative and economic point of view as this will mean reducing red tape and unnecessary procedures, thus saving financial resources that can be used within these programmes themselves. the integration of the two is very important for the healthy education of children in romania and across the eu, for their future, and not least for farmers and producers in the member states who support and promote healthy products, including those in romania.
in writing. ‒ i believe that it is good for children to have healthy food as a priority in schools. this is why i support actions such as the 'milk for schools' project in the czech republic. and it is precisely because of this conviction that i could not vote today for the resolution on the aid scheme for the supply of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk to educational establishments as proposed. the adoption of the amendment, which meant that flavoured milk would not receive aid, would have seriously damaged the czech project 'milk for schoolchildren' mentioned above. the results show that children who take it drink up to eight times as much flavored milk as unflavored milk. the sugar content of flavoured milk is already clearly regulated, but if we do not support flavoured milk, this may mean that children are left with the choice of raw milk, which they do not like so much, and much less healthy but 'good' drinks. then it's obvious that they're going to go for the latter, and the whole milk-promoting system in schools is going to fail.
in writing. ‒ this vote demonstrates the desire of all to continue strengthening programmes on good nutrition in schools. the directive voted today helps to increase the consumption of fresh fruit and vegetables, including bananas, and dairy products among children, and to reduce the number of cases of verified childhood obesity in the member states.
in writing. ‒ i was happy to vote in favour of the commission’s initiative. each year, in a context of increasing rates of child obesity, the school milk scheme and the school fruit and vegetables scheme provide nearly 30 million school children across the eu with much needed healthy food products and help children to develop good eating habits. similarly, at a time of falling fruit and vegetable prices, farmers and rural communities are also guaranteed a secure market for their products. i believe that the merging of the two schemes within a common legal and financial framework would further increase the efficiency and effectiveness of the system and reduce the administrative burden for local administrations in the implementation of the national programmes.
in writing. ‒ healthy food for europe's children must be a top priority for the commission and the member states. childhood obesity is reaching alarming levels and is calling into question the healthy development we all want for european children. nutritional behaviors are acquired from an early age. therefore, the continuation of the fruit and milk supply programme for educational establishments is not only necessary but also mandatory. at the same time, educational programmes for which member states can use between 10% and 20% of the financial allocations can be transformed into activities for children to create healthy lifelong nutrition behaviours. i voted in favour of this proposal for a decision because i consider it important for the united and healthy development of european youth. in addition to the positive features of balanced nutrition, it is also worth highlighting the economic importance that the programme attaches to the development of agricultural production at national and regional level. the european union's contributions under this programme are injected into the national economy and give new opportunities for local producers to develop and consolidate their market position.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, based on the idea that the interests of all eu citizens must be protected in the event of major crises that can be triggered by various factors or situations and that can affect agricultural production or distribution at european level, the european commission has this year also put forward a proposal to adjust direct payments to all farmers. the adjustment rate for direct payments is currently 1,39% and it approves payments for amounts above eur 2 000 per farmer. according to the european executive, the adjustment is intended to create a financing reserve of some eur 441 million, compared with eur 433 million in the previous year, which can be used in the event of a crisis in the agricultural sector. depending on the situation, the european commission will be able to make a new proposal to adjust the adjustment rate on 1 december 2015, after reassessing the forecast in october. the european parliament must adopt this proposal within the time limit set by the regulation, i.e. by the end of june, otherwise it is the commission which will be able to decide on the level of this rate. i believe that as representatives of the european citizens we must respect the deadline.
mr president, direct payments are the mechanism absolutely indispensable for sustainable and efficient agriculture. that is why i welcome the commission's concern in general and that of commissioner phil hogan in particular to always refer to the realities on the ground in order to provide the opportunity to take the best measures for the agricultural sector. in this respect, it should be possible for the adjustment rate to apply only to the amount of direct payments for which aid applications were submitted in 2015, without taking into account the moment when the payments to farmers were made, precisely because member states have the possibility to make late payments, after that payment period, within a certain time limit. however, i would like to draw attention again today, with all the responsibility and respect i have for the european institutions, to the unacceptable differences in direct payments between member states, which create major imbalances. never, a subsidy of 150 euros that a romanian farmer receives can not be equal to a subsidy of 700-800 euros that a farmer from another state receives on the same unit of measure, which i find deeply incorrect. the commission must therefore ensure that in future the differences between farmers in the european union are eliminated, ensuring equal treatment, but with the obligation to take account of the particularities of each area, and this as a consequence of belonging to the single european area. last but not least, the commission must remain concerned with the need to ensure a balance between supporting the performance of farmers on the one hand and affordable and accessible food for all the people of the european union and beyond on the other. the embargo imposed on russia, the lack of markets strong enough to absorb all agricultural production at union level, highlights the need for a joint effort by all responsible factors to find viable solutions in crisis situations.
mr president, it is obvious that we need such a crisis tool to use the money in the interests of farmers, but at the same time we must bear in mind the following: it is important to use the money in the right directions to help farmers when they need it. that's why, unfortunately, no one can predict or forecast the onset of a crisis like we had with the russian embargo. that is why i think it is important that the commission, and i have great confidence in commissioner hogan, will set very clear conditions for the beneficiaries of these funds. let us not forget that they are actually the ones who contribute to this reserve fund and, on the other hand, as my other colleagues have said, let us not forget that it is almost impossible to put farmers in competition with each other given the differences in the amount of money they receive. so i stress again that full alignment of direct payments to farmers should be ensured as soon as possible.
mr president, i would like to express my positive vote for the fixing of an adjustment rate for direct payments in 2015. this will provide a reserve that will allow additional support for the agricultural sector in the case of a natural crisis affecting agricultural production or distribution, by applying, at the beginning of each year, a reduction to direct payments with a financial discipline mechanism. even if i truly hope that the crisis reserve will not be needed, i believe that, if such an event happens, it will be an important means for the european agricultural sector, from which we will all benefit. also, i am strongly in favour of very clear conditions being imposed for beneficiaries. i thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure madam president, you have shown here, and many speakers have said, that subsidiarity is a matter for the member states, and that they should solve their own problems. today we're discussing a real situation: these problems are not solved. then why do you not agree that we need such a report - and i congratulate her - and that we need a european union programme to enable us to achieve the goal we want, namely equal opportunities for women in all fields. why don't you agree that if the situation we have today is unsatisfactory, by letting each country do what it wants? congratulations to all the men who supported the report... (the president interrupted the speaker. )
blue-card question.– i enjoyed the presentation by our colleague, ms estaràs ferragut. i would like to ask her – because she mentioned stereotypes and domestic violence – whether new forms of violence against women, such as those found in social media, are also an urgent matter that needs to be dealt with?
madam president, i congratulate the rapporteur on her approach, an approach which seeks to respond to the challenges that exist. twenty years after the adoption of the beijing platform for action, we find that the laudable intention of decision-makers to translate gender equality into practice in all areas of life is not being implemented at the desired pace and that not all the objectives aimed at genuine gender equality have yet been achieved at european level. and we could exemplify with the right to integrity and a life of dignity, but also with a better distribution of childcare and the full fruition of talents and qualifications. on the other hand, it should not be forgotten that in the european union, about 42% of the actors regularly involved in agriculture are women, and three out of ten farms at european level are managed by women. the european commission together with the member states must contribute to promoting a strategy that leads to job creation for rural women as well and, by implication, to decent pensions for retired women in the european union who live in poor conditions, work a lot or have worked in agriculture and who have no pensions or whose pensions are very low. i am voting for this report because i believe that a long-term strategy is needed and that the vast majority of women expect us to respond.
madam president, i strongly support the adoption of a new, separate strategy on gender equality and women’s rights in the european union. it is especially important to prioritise the fight against violence against women. new forms of violence against women, such as those found in social media, are also an urgent matter that needs to be dealt with. we should be very active on combating violence, tackling pay gaps and on ensuring that women can reach equal positions in the working world. i especially support the new approaches introduced in the report for reconciliation of private and professional life to be dealt with, with a strong focus on care and working-time arrangements. i thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteur for the great job they have done, and i am sure it will have a very positive outcome for our societies in the future.
member of the commission.– madam president, the european parliament has always been a driver – and an important partner for change – for gender equality. in today’s discussion on ms noichl’s report i heard here a powerful voice on the necessity of a strong and comprehensive eu policy to promote equality between women and men. i count on your support to continue our journey towards an equal europe, and i reiterate the commission’s strong commitment to equality between women and men, backed by concrete policy actions.
in writing. gender equality is a fundamental value and the eu must take on the task of mainstreaming gender equality in all its activities and reducing employment inequalities. despite all the efforts made so far, the gaps between the roma population and the majority society in education, health, employment are still wide, and the situation of roma women in the union is even worse, due to multiple discriminations. the european commission must take responsibility for drafting and adopting a new, separate strategy for equal rights for women in europe, creating equal opportunities, with the aim of ending all forms of discrimination faced by women in the labour market, in terms of salaries, pensions, decision-making, reconciliation of private and professional life, as well as all forms of violence against women. i believe that cooperation between member states, women's rights organisations and the social partners should be promoted with a view to providing adequate funding to national anti-discrimination bodies.
mr president, i want to sound the alarm about the situation in romania today, which my colleagues from the epp are wrongly trying to turn into a political issue at european level, as the opposition is demanding the resignation of the prime minister, trying to get into government by undemocratic means and overthrow a legitimate majority. what is this government doing right now? it has revived the economy; we are now experiencing the highest economic growth in europe at 4.3 percent; it has steadily increased wages, pensions and doubled child allowances; it has reduced vat on food so that we have 12 percent reductions on food; it has reduced labour taxes creating over 90,000 new jobs in the last year alone; it has completed a transport master plan; it has vastly increased the absorption of european funds and has in its work a wage bill that will lead to the increase of low wages. what's he done now? he's stopped a number of mafias that were exploiting forests, pilfering the energy market, stealing vat, evading taxes and smuggling. that good governance is in jeopardy today because the nlp is desperate to get to government before next year.
mr president, your colleagues from the epp have misinformed you and that is why i feel i must make a number of clarifications on the situation in romania. i draw your attention to the critical situation that the members of the romanian opposition have created and are supporting by a serious departure from european democratic practices, a situation that is also likely to affect regional political stability in eastern europe. more precisely, on the day that pnl filed the motion of censure against the ponta government, the prime minister of romania was informed by the dna that he was a suspect in a criminal case, without having been previously heard and without having been given the chance to present his position. then the pnl began to exert political and media pressure to force the resignation of prime minister victor ponta with the stated aim of taking over the government now exercised by a legitimate government, supported by a legitimate parliamentary majority supported by a broad coalition. i draw attention to the fact that the actions of the liberals not only can lead to a serious political crisis, but also abuse the judiciary in political decisions, thus disregarding both the national legislation in force and the generally valid european laws. ... )
mr president, i regret that our parliament has not agreed to hold an emergency hearing on victor ponta. the romanian prime minister is accused of corruption by dna prosecutors and when the country's president asked him to resign he replied that it would be a coup d'état. today, as mr pittella's socialists defended him here in the plenary, the romanian prime minister threatened criminal investigations against opposition leaders and citizens who dared to take to the streets to protest in the coming days. this is a serious authoritarian drift. plagiarism specialist victor ponta is now copying the anti-democratic behavior of viktor yanukovych. if he were innocent, the prime minister would ask for the lifting of his parliamentary immunity in order to clear up the corruption charges against him. instead, he mobilized the state to not bear the rigors of the law. the socialist prime minister in bucharest must be stopped because he now intends to dissolve an institution that investigates corruption. "get out!" citizens are shouting in bucharest - i am doing it here too.
this item on the agenda has been closed.
the next item is the summary of the report by alessia maria mosca on intellectual property rights in third countries [2014/2206 (ini) ] (a80161/2015).
mr president, considering the significant changes that have taken place in the area of ipr over the past decade, i believe that protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights is indeed a very important issue to tackle in order to fight the threat that infringement poses to eu creative industries, jobs and growth. i welcome this initiative and i appreciate the fact that the approach taken in acta, which mixed hard goods with internet supervision, was overcome. i am in favour of the commission proposal to review the strategy for the protection and enforcement of ipr in third countries. this approach is valued by the different stakeholders and underlines that any initiative concerning external ipr enforcement should carefully reflect the internal eu development of ip rules. finally, i would like to welcome the inclusion by our group of the safeguarding of the flow of generic medicines, which strikes the right balance between the production of generic medicines and the protection of pharmaceutical research.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 9 june 2015. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the summary of the report by mr pavel svoboda on intellectual property rights: an eu action plan (2014/2151 (ini)) (a80169/2015).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 9 june 2015. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
member of the commission.– mr president, the quality and depth of eu-russia relations is a determining factor for the stability and prosperity of our continent. our partnership was severely impacted last year by the illegal annexation of crimea and the destabilisation of donbas. but russia is also an important economic counterpart and an essential partner for the solution of many pressing international problems. this is the backdrop of the report you are debating today. i appreciate your efforts, in particular those of mr landsbergis, which have made this report a very important contribution to the debate on how best to shape relations with russia. let me take up the key political messages in your report. first comes the issue of unity. i fully share your conviction that our russia policy is strong and successful only if it enjoys the unanimous support of all 28 eu member states. the eu must continue acting on the basis of a broad and principled consensus on the ukraine conflict and on its relations with russia. this does not mean reducing our policy to the lowest common denominator. quite the contrary – it means pursuing a comprehensive approach, responding to immediate concerns but with strategic patience and vision. the work of this house is an example of eu unity. i understand that the draft report has been adopted by an overwhelming majority in the committee on foreign affairs (afet). i hope that the plenary vote will also reflect this, in order to send a clear political message about the views of european citizens. second, there is the issue of balance. your report contains strong criticism of moscow’s actions such as the illegal annexation of crimea and sevastopol, its destabilising policy in donbas, the multiplication of hybrid threats throughout europe and the shrinking space for russian civil society and media. at the same time, you are equally strong in stating the eu’s readiness to develop a constructive, predictable and mutually-beneficial relationship with russia. balance is at the core of our approach to the ukraine conflict. on the one hand, we have been firm and decided to adopt sanctions. on the other hand, eu member states and eu institutions are engaged in the search for a political solution to the conflict. work is done in the normandy format and in trilateral talks on trade and energy. the eu provides substantial assistance which is clearly conditional on real reforms in ukraine. these efforts will continue unabated. such a balanced approach should be followed between the eu and russia. dialogue and engagement should go together with resilience and firmness. we cannot turn a blind eye to security risks in sectors like energy, cyber-space, civil aviation or the impact of propaganda on our democracies. we must enhance our capacity for resilience and clearly state our red lines. at the same time, there is an imperative for cooperation based on the inter-dependence and complementarity of our economies, on historical and cultural traditions and on our capacity to make a difference when we act jointly. we should more often exercise our responsibilities as actors in a complex world of global and regional challenges. based on mutual respect, the eu should remain ready to develop a new, positive relationship. thirdly, the commission shares your commitment to a comprehensive approach to our russia policy. as high representative mogherini said in this chamber at the start of her term last autumn, we believe that a successful foreign policy depends on success in internal eu policies fully committed to this principle. the work by high representative mogherini, with commissioners šefčovič and malmström, on the trilateral talks on energy and trade proves we are on the right track. fourth, let me stress the issue of integrity. the eu stands firmly behind democratic values, respect for human rights and a rules-based international order and will continue to do so. these fundamental principles underpin our commitment to the sovereignty and territorial integrity of ukraine. they are the basis for our call on russia to respect its international commitments, be this in the field of governance, security or international trade. we have maintained our support and assistance for civil society organisations and human rights projects in an increasingly challenging environment. despite the deterioration of relations, we will enhance people-to-people contacts in all fields – from education, culture and research to cross-border cooperation. let me finish with a crucial point in your report – perspective. i see that the very first plea you make in your report is for the eu to develop a contingency plan for the short term, as well as a comprehensive plan for long-term relations with russia and with the eu’s east european partners. i share the reasoning behind this call. events in crimea and donbas should not prevent us from taking a broader horizon for identifying the challenges we face and the opportunities to be exploited. eu foreign ministers agreed back in january to continue dialogue with russia at expert level on the resolution of regional conflicts and tackling global challenges. further engagement with russia should be gradual, with russia’s fulfilment of commitments under international law and steps for rebuilding mutual trust. for this to develop, we need a long-term vision – a strategy that we must develop further. to achieve a vision for eu-russia relations that can embrace all scenarios, our reflection should already start now.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure mr castaldo, i understand that you are criticising the report. the issue you raised, and i did not see it in the report, is that you talk about the european union encouraging an arms race. the commissioner explained why the european union needed to have a common policy and show vision. how do you want relations between the european union and russia to be in order to avoid conflict?
mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating my colleague, mr landsbergis, on the quality of his report. we are indeed facing a major crisis in our relations with russia today, because it is no longer, as we said, a strategic partner. it is a very aggressive power, both in its domestic policy and in its external relations. at the internal level, we know that it is no longer possible to speak of a democratic regime. this is a party-confiscated and personalized regime, which creates a huge problem in political dialogue. dialogue which, by the way, is no longer possible. we are far from having direct and sincere exchanges with that part of the world. i would also like to say that it is becoming unbearable to hear the voices of our colleagues who are reproducing the messages from moscow as they are. it's like the 1980s with this fake pacifist talk, made by people who are in some cases paid directly by moscow. it's still not acceptable. the european union must respond to this with very harsh sanctions to silence the voices of these unconscious people who are speaking to us from countries subsidized by moscow. i'm sick of this shit. (the president agreed to answer a question with a 'blue card' (rule 162 (8))
answer is "blue cardboard". mr president, i think the only solution we have now is to help the ukrainians fight russia, because it is a war on their soil. we must therefore use all the means at our disposal, at member state and union level, to help these people to defend themselves. this is a right of defence that the english once cherished. now that they are themselves at war with europe, they will invent anything to break this action.
blue-card question.– mr väyrynen, you are from finland – finland, which has a long history of relations with russia, not always very happy. do you not think that we should have a common position and a real common foreign and security policy of the european union countries towards russia – more solidarity among us towards russia? otherwise it is going to be difficult with peaceful means alone to make russia comply with international law.
mr president, i would start by saying to the commissioner that we all consider ourselves – except those in flagrant conflict of interest with russia – blacklisted. this is the very moment to say that we have been blacklisted, directly or indirectly, by russia without having violated any norm or any international law. russia has done that. i will now turn to my language, romanian. dialogul a fost și rămâne cuvântul cheie în relația ue-rusia, acesta a fost abordarea generică a uniunii europene cu toți partenerii săi, iar acest raport este un raport cheie într-un moment cheie pentru relațiile noastre cu rusia. pe de o parte observăm, conform celor transmise de misiunea specială de monitorizare a osce și de către nato, suportul militar constant oferit de rusia separatiștilor, iar pe de altă parte continuăm să auzim retorica de negare a implicării rusiei în conflictul din ucraina, ba chiar un interviu scandalos al lui putin care neagă evidențele, spunând că vestul nu ar trebui să se simtă amenințat de către rusia. la toate cele menționate, spuneam, se adaugă lista neagră adoptată săptămâna trecută pe ascuns care arată adevăratele intenții ale rusiei. trebuie să rămânem ancorați în valorile noastre europene și să nu ne abatem de la principiile în care credem cu toții, dar nu putem rămâne indiferenți la astfel de acțiuni provocatoare. personal salut inițiativa președintelui martin schulz de a pune restricții la accesul...(președintele a întrerupt vorbitorului.)
mr president, the actions taken by the russian federation continue to undermine any immediate prospect for reengagement and cooperation on the part of the eu. the russian blacklist of european politicians and officials, including a large number of members of this parliament, adds yet another obstacle to mutual trust and to repeated efforts for a peaceful and sustainable solution to the current crisis. by illegally annexing crimea and waging an armed conflict against ukraine, russia has intentionally chosen not to be a partner. breaching its international commitments including the united nations charter, the helsinki final act, the budapest memorandum and the paris charter, russia has contributed to thousands of deaths in eastern ukraine. yet no opportunities for genuine and constructive dialogue with moscow will be spared. the russian federation is and remains a prerequisite for the de-escalation of the conflict and a political, lasting solution. in the long term, the ultimate objective is and must be that of restoring dialogue and engagement with russia to achieve peace on the european continent.
the right to life, freedom of expression and association, respect for the borders and sovereignty of states, are just some of the principles governing the european union. russia's violation of these values, through actions to annex crimea, destabilise ukraine and the region, was likely to attract a set of measures from the international community aimed at correcting these aberrations. russia must understand that while the european union wants a strategic partnership that pursues common interests, this will not be possible as long as it is a rival to the rule of law, and the minsk agreement, although it was meant to become a reality, is today increasingly being violated. we draw the attention of the russian federation to the fact that, however much the member states may depend on the energy component, they will never accept the violation of the basic principles of security in europe. the european institutions and the member states will remain firm against any aggression that threatens peace and stability in the region.
mr president, to me the most important question in our relations with the russian federation right now is how we move forward in these relations. i would course prefer that we move forward on the basis of common values – but do we share values with a political leadership that invades another country or that pursues an illegal annexation of the territories of another country? i am afraid we do not. in fact i am pretty certain we do not share common values with them. until russia decides to be a trustworthy partner for the free world, i think our number one objective should be to help countries in the eastern neighbourhood which are under pressure from russia. we have to tell the people in these countries that we want these countries to be strong, independent and developed, and the russian federation wants these countries to be weak and controllable so that they can be blackmailed. we should use the financial and institutional means that we have to help these countries develop to build strong and independent institutions at home, and we have to resist the russian propaganda there. we should communicate to the people of these countries what the benefits of cooperation with the eu are for those people.
member of the commission.– mr president, this debate has shown yet again how important russia is for us, in terms of both the risks that moscow’s policy poses and the opportunities that are offered for mutually-beneficial cooperation. we must be fully prepared to face such risks and protect our citizens from hybrid threats. at the same time, we should not lose determination to build on the opportunities and further develop our relations. let me now react to several contributions which we have had. the european union is not being humiliated or allowing anyone to humiliate. we are firm and united on our sanctions. these show clear support for ukraine and at the same time impose a cost on the violation of international law. in reaction to the debate on the blacklist, let me quote high representative/vice-president mogherini: ‘we did protest and will continue to do so in all circumstances.’ unfortunately, federica mogherini cannot be present for this very important debate today on eu relations with russia, as she is currently chairing the eu-celac summit. i will report to her your main messages and i am sure that you will have the opportunity to discuss this important item with her soon. let me thank you for your fruitful exchanges. your report is a timely and strong document. i look forward to its final adoption later this week.
in writing.– russia is not showing respect for the signed agreements such as the minsk agreement and for the international democratic community and its law-based order, which is leading to chaos. russia violated ukraine’s sovereignty under the budapest memorandum signed in 1994 and breached its obligations by annexing crimea. russia does not seem to foresee an end of its aggression because it renewed the production of the supersonic strategic bomber and missile carrier. russia does not admit its direct involvement in the war from ukraine, but on the other hand russia refuses to sign the un nuclear annual report because the document lists sevastopol as being located in ukraine. double standards! another fact is the persistent repression of political activists and political opponents, and i have in mind the following cases which ended up with the death of: anna politkovskaya, natalya estemirova, boris nemtsov, sergey magnitsky, alexander litvinenko. i condemn the fact that russia turned a blind eye towards the signed agreements; russia neglects the persisting culture of impunity which proves that russia doesn’t have any respect for its own people, neither for members of the international community!
in writing.– i consider that the eu must demonstrate commitment, unity and solidarity in sanctioning the russian actions against the applicable international law rules. it is necessary and important that the current international legal framework be fully respected. the eu needs an effective approach, especially regarding the economic, defence and security areas, in order to internally strength the eu, to update and improve the existing instruments and to amplify its reaction capacity to the evolution in its neighbourhood that affects european security. it is necessary to sustain the eastern partnership countries in their efforts regarding internal reforms, in relation to all relevant domains – economic affairs, minorities, democratic governance – in order for such countries to have sovereignty and be able to decide for themselves, based on their national interests, including regarding their options for foreign affairs policy or integration into international organisations.
in writing. strengthening the eu's military defence capabilities must be matched by stimulating the economic development of these regions, which are predominantly underdeveloped and therefore vulnerable to russian expansionism, which is also expressed through a propaganda and economic offensive. the eu must also strengthen its eastern flank economically. the high degree of poverty in the north-eastern region of romania exposes the north of moldova to increased risks in the face of russian propaganda and economic actions. the recent massive acquisition of land on the right bank of the prut by interest groups close to moscow is a wake-up call in this regard. i believe that efforts need to be focused at european level to counter the growing economic and media influence of pro-russian circles, which are increasingly active in the east. i believe that the european union urgently needs to invest in the economic revival of its border regions, as well as in the development of alternatives to russian propaganda. it also calls for closer monitoring and a halt to russia's support for radical and extremist parties in eu member states.
in writing. ‒ in an enlarged union of 28 member states, there are different types of agriculture and significant gaps in the development of the agricultural sector, which has led to the emergence of new requirements and perspectives specific to this area. we welcome the establishment of a reserve for major crises affecting both agricultural production and distribution and hope that there will be no such crises. although the adjustment rate under financial discipline does not apply in romania, with direct payments being phased in in calendar year 2015, i stress once again that full alignment of direct payments in the eu-28 should be ensured as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ i would like to express my positive vote for the fixing of the adjustment rate for direct payments in 2015. this will provide a reserve that will allow additional support for the agricultural sector in the case of major crises affecting agricultural production or distribution by applying, at the beginning of each year, a reduction to direct payments with the financial discipline mechanism. even if i truly hope that the crisis reserve will not be needed, i believe that, if such event happens, it will be an important resource for the european agricultural sector, from which we will all benefit. i thank the rapporteur and the shadows for their active role in supporting the agricultural sector in europe.
in writing. – i have voted for this report to create a support mechanism for the agricultural sector in case of major crises affecting the agricultural production or distribution. this will create the mechanism that will enable the eu to resist crisis situations better and to prevent with financial means a major agricultural crisis.
in writing. ‒ equality between women and men has been a major theme throughout time. member states must take care to create the framework within which each individual can freely express himself in accordance with his conscience, in compliance with legal provisions and moral principles. i voted against the report on the eu strategy for equality between women and men post-2015 because i want to underline that while i support gender equality between women and men, i cannot support the sacralization of lesbian and gay rights, but i am against sanctions against them for that reason alone. the european union as a whole must ensure that individual rights and freedoms are respected and, whenever it detects irregularities, it must intervene firmly and unequivocally. respect for moral and biblical values must govern any society that is to be concerned with including the perpetuation of the human species which certainly cannot be done by encouraging same-sex marriage and, in no case, by encouraging adoption by them.
in writing. ‒ i believe that economic independence for men and women is a major element of gender equality. the current economic crisis risks throwing us back into the past, with women potentially being more affected than men. this is why i believe that efforts to improve labour market participation and access to decision-making positions in business and beyond should be high on the agenda.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support the adoption of a new separate strategy on gender equality and women’s rights in the eu. it is especially important to prioritise the fight against violence against women. new forms of violence against women, such as those found in social media, are also an urgent matter that needs to be dealt with. we should be very active on combating violence, tackling pay gaps, and on ensuring that women can reach equal positions in the working world. i especially support the new approaches for reconciliation of private and professional life introduced in the report, to be dealt with a strong focus on care and working time arrangements. i thank the rapporteur and the shadow for the great job done and i am sure that it will have very positive outcomes in our societies of the future.
in writing. ‒ i fully support the new strategy for equality between women and men and i voted in favour of the own-initiative report because it is time to quit the useless political talks and act! we need to take action and make sure that the right to equal treatment, enshrined in article 20 of the charter of fundamental rights, is being respected. unfortunately, even though after the adoption of the lisbon treaty, the charter of fundamental rights is binding upon member states, the reality is that in some areas gender equality is not reached. according to eurostat, there is still a huge gender wage gap of 20% between women and men. in addition, high-level decision making positions are still mostly occupied by men. since the previous commission strategy was too weak, this report will send a strong message to the commission that there is political will to shift the current direction of eu policy on gender equality.
in writing. – i have voted for the eu strategy for equality between women and men post 2015 report because it will help draw up and adopt a new separate strategy for women’s rights and gender equality in europe aimed at creating equal opportunities, with a view to ending all forms of discrimination suffered by women in the labour market, with respect to wages, pensions, decision-making, access to goods and services, reconciliation of family and working life, all forms of violence against women and to remove discriminatory structures and practices related to gender.
norica nicolai (alde), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this strategy as it outlines important guidelines for us to follow in order to address the ongoing problems that women face throughout the union. unfortunately, discrimination still exists, abuse still exists and the pay gap still exists. we all need to do more to fight for the eradication of these issues, and the text of this report, while not perfect, helps considerably in showing that we need to move away from the backward mindset which, sadly, so many politicians around europe still support.
in writing. ‒ despite some pressures that i admit to have surprised me, and some virulent attacks, the european parliament has made a big step forward in trying to achieve equality, in a real way, for all citizens, regardless of gender. i believe that in the end reason has won out, and the report i voted for comes with both ambitious objectives and concrete proposals for immediate action. but personally, i cannot help but resent the fact that such a report, which only normalizes an aberrant situation for our times, has become the target of groups or politicians with medieval attitudes. i believe it is unacceptable, in europe and elsewhere in the world, that in 2015 a woman should be paid less than a man for the same work, be discriminated against and be subjected to senseless risks that can expose her to major social dangers such as poverty or exclusion!
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution and report by ms noichl on an eu strategy for equality between women and men post-2015. it is most certainly the case that gender equality is still far from a reality for too many women (and men) in europe. the eu can and should encourage member states to achieve this goal, since it is only by creating an equal society that we will all benefit from it. this report, however, poses a fundamental problem because of which i am not able to support it. it is in violation with the principle of the right to life and the sanctity of life. it does not reflect those fundamental, christian values that we should uphold in the european union and that aim at cherishing life and family.
in writing. ‒ when we refer to the concept of equal opportunities, we need to develop a holistic view of it. that is why i believe that we need a new, unified and comprehensive strategy, to be adopted by the commission as soon as possible, on the elimination of all forms of gender discrimination in europe! women need a fair and equitable framework that allows them to develop, personally and professionally, without fear and obstacles spread by preconceived ideas and wrong and outdated attitudes. this can only be achieved if we stand together in solidarity around the principles that make us strong, alongside civil society and together with all member states. the commission must act decisively, in a stimulating way, on the basis of an action plan, together with all its partners, to achieve all the objectives necessary to balance the gender balance in the labour market, to attract as many women as possible to entrepreneurship and to unlock the potential of women to occupy leadership positions in the areas it considers appropriate. it is up to our administrative capacity to mobilize the resources at our disposal to create the actions needed to eliminate the inequalities that unfortunately persist in society between women and men.
in writing. ‒ equality between men and women is one of the fundamental principles guaranteed and defended by the european union. enshrined in the treaties, this common value remains an objective to be achieved in specific areas, in particular in education and access to employment, women's participation in decision-making, and the fight against new forms of violence against women, such as cyberbullying. however, i believe that certain aspects of this report, such as the recognition and promotion of abortion as a human right and the introduction of sex education programmes by the member states, are not a matter for the european level but for the member states. i believe that the principle of subsidiarity, a fundamental principle of the functioning of the eu, must be taken into account, since areas such as the family, education and health, which are the subject of this report, are areas reserved to the member states. i also believe that women's participation in decision-making in companies in the economic field should be a consequence of professional competence, not the result of the imposition of mandatory quotas. i therefore reject the report on the eu strategy for equality between women and men post-2015.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the strategy for the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights in third countries. intellectual property has been and will be one of the priorities of the european union, with the evolution of human society based on creativity and inventiveness. the key industries contribute around 38.6% to the eu's gross domestic product, and defending these rights aims to promote people's ability to create concepts and values that lead to the economic development of society and increase the number of jobs. europe itself is attractive to investors because of the legislative framework that preserves and promotes intellectual property rights. i welcome and encourage any initiative at european union level in this regard. i support the establishment of a simplified functional framework, by clearly defining the tasks of the two entities to make the work more efficient and the responsible use of human and material capital and, not least, to reduce unnecessary costs. i am confident that both parliament and the commission will continue to support the progressive harmonisation of this sector.
in writing. ‒ considering the significant changes that have taken place in the area of intellectual property rights (ipr) over the past decade, i believe that protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights is indeed a very important issue to tackle in order to fight the threat that infringement poses to eu creative industries, jobs and growth. i welcome this initiative and i appreciate the fact that the approach taken in acta, which mixed hard goods with internet supervision, was overcome. i am in favour of the commission proposal to review the strategy for protection and enforcement of ipr in third countries. this approach is valued by the different stakeholders and underlines that any initiative concerning external ipr enforcement should carefully reflect internal eu development of ip rules. finally, i would like to welcome the inclusions by our group safeguarding the flow of generic medicines, which strikes the right balance between production of generic medicines and protection of pharmaceutical research.
in writing. – the eu depends on industries that rely on effective ip protection. i voted for this report because the improved standards and enforcement in it will bring to light the available potential of eu exporters that can only be achieved if counterfeiting is effectively addressed and adequate standards, procedures and administrative resources exist.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the eu action plan on the enforcement of intellectual property rights (iprs), as they are one of the main drivers of innovation and creativity and make a significant contribution to competitiveness, job creation and cultural diversity. at the moment, eu countries are facing an alarming number of violations of these rights, which cause moral and economic harm to european businesses, causing considerable economic and fiscal losses for states. in my view, it is extremely important that, both online and offline, all actors in the supply chain are involved in actions to tackle ipr infringement - including creators and rights holders, manufacturers, intermediaries, internet service providers, online sales platforms, end-users and public authorities. these actions, together with an intensification of the exchange of information between customs authorities, would improve the business environment and contribute to preventing the entry of goods and services in breach of ipr into the market. it would be a major support for european smes and would contribute to job growth.
in writing. intellectual property rights contribute to the development of innovation and creativity and their protection is essential for the eu's competitiveness. in the context of the need for an ambitious eu strategy on the protection of intellectual property rights in relation to its trading partners, i welcome the adoption in the european parliament of the own-initiative report on the strategy for the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights in third countries. i voted in favour of this report, while also appreciating the commission's approach in this area.
in writing. ‒ the report 'towards a new consensus on ipr enforcement: an eu action plan' put to the vote today is a very important report for the eu, especially as member states need to support innovation and creativity more than ever to remain competitive on the global market. i voted in favour of this report, which adds value to the process of creating effective and coordinated collaboration at national, european and global levels to combat infringement of intellectual property rights in the european union. the european union has generated and must continue to generate policies against counterfeiting of any product in order to increase its competitiveness on the market. consumers, employees and customers should also be made more aware of the economic harm caused by infringements of intellectual property rights on a commercial scale. last but not least, experts from all member states play a key role in the exchange of good practice between member state authorities in an attempt to strengthen and promote the eu action plan on all things supporting creativity and innovation.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the cultural and creative industries in the european union are a driving force for social and economic development and job creation in europe and are brought about by creators, designers and institutions that rely on exceptions and limitations to copyright. in this context, i believe that future legislative initiatives to modernise copyright should be based on independent evidence on the impact on growth and jobs, especially when it comes to smes in the cultural and creative sectors, on access to knowledge and culture, and on the possible costs and benefits.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the inclusion in the final report of issues such as focusing the enforcement of intellectual property rights (ipr) on commercial-scale infringements, not criminalising private consumers and users, the need to develop awareness-raising campaigns for consumers on the costs and consequences of ipr infringements; and respect for fundamental rights in relation to enforcement measures and sanctions for infringement. the general approach taken by the report on the future eu action plan for intellectual property rights enforcement will have, in my opinion, very positive outcomes as it focuses mostly on supporting smes in enforcing their ipr and lowering administrative burdens, on developing mechanisms for countering infringements, involving all stakeholders, and on international cooperation.
in writing. ‒ intellectual property rights help the cultural and creative industries in the european union to make a significant contribution to competitiveness, employment and cultural diversity. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on intellectual property rights and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on intellectual property rights.
in writing. – intellectual property rights are one of the driving forces of innovation and creativity and a key contributor to competitiveness, employment and cultural diversity. i voted for this report and strongly support the necessity for an open dialogue and an action plan on the future of intellectual property rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, as we do need a realistic action plan to address intellectual property (ip) theft and fraud inside our own borders. the union needs to protect both creativity and fair competition in the market in this area, without stifling the free sharing of information on the internet. at the same time, the ‘follow the money’ approach initially proposed by the commission could be highly beneficial for many users unjustly accused of ip violations or infringement, and we can hope the member states will try to adapt their practices to bring them fully into line with this action plan.
in writing. i voted for the report entitled 'towards a new consensus on the enforcement of intellectual property rights: an eu action plan'. i welcome the rapporteur's attention to smes, as they and creators play a key role in the creative and cultural industries and often lack the capacity to enforce their rights because of the complexity, cost and duration of these procedures for the protection of intellectual property rights. i welcome the rapporteur's request to the commission to take account of smes in the development of legislation in this area and to ensure that all measures on the protection of intellectual property rights have a limited impact in terms of burdens and costs imposed on the sme sector.
the next item is the joint debate on– the recommendation from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change and the joint fulfilment of commitments thereunder (10400/2014 – c8-0029/2015 – 2013/0376(nle)) (rapporteur: elisabetta gardini) (a8-0167/2015), and– the recommendation from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and its member states, on the one part, and iceland, on the other part, concerning iceland’s participation in the joint fulfilment of commitments of the european union, its member states and iceland for the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change (10883/2014 – c8-0088/2015 – 2014/0151(nle)) (rapporteur: giovanni la via) (a8—0166/2015).
i'd like to be clear from the start that we're not in a competition. it's clear that if we treat this debate as a competition and we lose this competition, we all suffer. we all know that the main objective of the kyoto protocol is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions internationally. it represents an important step forward in the fight against global warming, containing binding and quantified targets for limiting and reducing greenhouse gases. given that climate commitments can only benefit us, i welcome the doha amendment which strengthens this commitment period legally under the european union climate and energy package. i believe in the leadership of the european union internationally and i am convinced that the national ratification processes for the adoption of the doha amendment will take place by the end of this year, and that the other signatories to the protocol will try to do the same. all authorities and actors involved must therefore be aware of this, whether they are from the north, east or west of the globe. and there's another concern: the warming effect that occurs in one part of the globe will affect other parts of the globe. it is our duty, all of ours, to leave future generations the right to breathe clean air.
madam president, under the doha agreement we commit to limit our average annual greenhouse gas emissions in the years 2013-2020 to 80% of our 1990 emissions. i am completely in favour of the ratification of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol as it will send a strong international signal about the efforts and the leadership of the eu and its member states in addressing climate change. i believe we need to increase political momentum towards a strong paris agreement, and this is why i believe that all the other parties to the kyoto protocol should rapidly advance their ratification process. we should call on all these countries to ratify as soon as possible, because this is of tremendous importance to ensure the necessary global response to climate change. a signed agreement will keep us united on the right track, sharing a vision of a climate-safe world with sustainable growth for all.
madam president, although the conclusion of the doha amendment would not bring any change in terms of member states’ co2 reductions and commitments, it would nevertheless give a clear signal, before the paris climate change summit, about europe’s ability to face its responsibilities as a polluter and its commitment to be at the forefront of the fight against climate change. however, as the report rightly points out, we must use all possible political, diplomatic and economic tools at our disposal to take on board the still uncommitted major polluters in the new international agreement in paris this year. in this sense, yesterday’s breakthrough agreement from the g7 summit is an encouraging development. we should do our utmost to use it in the creation of a global climate change action plan that is economically efficient and politically bold and farsighted.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 10 june 2015 at 12.00. written statements (rule 162)
in writing. i believe that the european union must continue to have a major approach under the kyoto protocol and in this regard i support the adoption of the doha amendment which provides for legally binding commitments to reduce ghg emissions in the period 2013-2020 to 80% of the reference year's emissions. given that romania is the first european country to sign the kyoto protocol, whereby it has undertaken its commitment to support the fight against climate change by reducing greenhouse gas emissions, i believe, as does the rapporteur, that the formal adoption of this amendment is among the priority objectives of the european union, contributing fundamentally to global efforts to address climate change.
the next item is the report by algirdas saudargas, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on european energy security strategy (2014/2153(ini))(a8-0164/2015).
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure i appreciate my colleague's input, and i appreciate the report, but i have a pointed question. how do you think we will be able to achieve the energy union, how will we be able to get the development gap in energy and transport infrastructure in the member states to be narrowed if the junker investment plan does not take account of social cohesion and geographical criteria, allocating funds on technical criteria?
the energy security strategy must first ensure the negotiation of the purchase of energy resources, in particular gas from russia, with one voice. we should start at regional level, with the assistance of the commission, to create regional energy infrastructure hubs. new gas sources are needed, limiting energy dependence on russia, expanding and strengthening transmission and distribution networks. the energy world involves coordinated governance of the internal market as well as strategic interconnectors, particularly in the western balkans. member states need incentives to develop a diversified energy mix based on indigenous energy sources that meet demand from renewable sources, including hydro, but also from fossil, thermal or nuclear hydrocarbons. a clear coal strategy is needed to ensure energy supply continuity. the black sea region is of geostrategic importance and accelerated cooperation is needed to develop the southern corridor and to provide a link with the caspian sea area, the middle east and central asia, to strengthen security of supply and to eliminate the russian monopoly. the commission should create the conditions for the integration of the offshore potential of the eastern mediterranean, the north sea, the baltic sea and the black sea, which is essential for the development of the european internal energy market. the european union needs to monitor more closely the strategy of the russian monopoly including the geopolitical acquisitions of the energy grid and distribution points and storage facilities. the nabucco project failure should not be forgotten but used as a lesson for the development of new gas transport corridors.
yesterday, ten member states including germany, france, poland and the czech republic signed a joint declaration on the regional initiative to develop a single electricity market, with the aim of strengthening security. it is noted that the formation of the single european electricity market passes through the formation of regional markets as an intermediate stage. i believe that concrete steps must be taken to achieve a single regional electricity market for the member states of southern and eastern europe together with the third countries in the area. this is a way of strengthening energy security. to this end, we need the support of the european commission to develop the necessary physical interconnections, harmonise regulations and transfer energy-efficient technologies.
madam president, allow me to quote a commission report which says there is no diversification or back-up in the event of supply problems, whether for technical or political reasons. you know that russia could cause significant disruption in the eu energy sector, and not only with regard to gas supply but also in relation to nuclear supply and nuclear fuel. as you know very well, there are 18 russian-designed nuclear reactors functioning in european union countries using russian atomic fuel: in finland, bulgaria, the czech republic, slovakia and hungary. this is a subject that has to be addressed quickly by the commission in the future energy security strategy of the european union. it is a subject of tremendous importance for europe’s energy security in the future.
for many countries in central and south-eastern europe, the concept of energy security is essential, both from the point of view of national security and the well-being of citizens. already marked by vulnerability to import dependence, especially from politically unstable regions, these states have seen an escalation of fears in the context of the crisis in ukraine. the crisis has called into question the urgency of progress on: european energy infrastructure, the completion of the internal energy market and the diversification of import sources. despite this context, there are also countries which are making considerable progress towards energy independence on a temporary basis. in the last three months, the moderation in demand for natural gas on the romanian market could be met from domestic production without having to rely on imports. we need more examples of this and i am glad that we have agreed the terms of a european energy security strategy. the creation of the energy union is the only solution to the vulnerabilities that logically derive from regional instability. the energy union can provide member states with a physical and legal framework through which they can cooperate and provide each other with energy resources needed for economic growth and job creation, citizens' welfare, industrial competitiveness and the business environment.
blue-card question.– you said that information has to be available to all relevant authorities. do you believe that access to the system for law—enforcement purposes should be granted, or not?
mr president, the solution to irregular migration lies in regular migration. in order to keep the european union open, we need to convince our citizens that there are strong control and safeguard systems in place, which, besides ensuring easy access for travellers, also allow for the detection of irregular situations. i am confident that the proposed use of a common platform for an entry/exit system and a registered traveller programme, as well as the efficient monitoring of traveller flows, will form a large part of the solution in proactively fighting against irregular migration. i hope that the pilot programme started at lisbon airport will be helpful in this regard, and i think we are all looking forward to learning more about the outcomes of the first trials of the proposed system.
in writing. there is currently a wide-ranging debate in the european parliament on the smart border system, whereby member states want to create mechanisms to strengthen the system of interconnection and border protection. this requires better linkage between member states and a record of citizens entering or travelling through europe. while this brings many benefits, i take this opportunity to reiterate that any discussion on border security must include romania, even if it is not currently in the schengen area. i consider it an abuse of the tendencies of some states or colleagues who want to exclude my country from this integrated border management system by creating the premises for an additional barrier to the right to mobility in the european area. we cannot create a border in the european union and i believe that romania, given the success of its border protection programmes, but also by fulfilling the criteria for accession to the schengen area, must and can be included in this smart border system.
mr president, in 2012 olaf opened 423 investigations, 198 in cooperation with the authorities of the member states, 225 direct investigations. can the commission tell us what the outcome of these investigations is, almost two years after they were launched, because the credibility of the institution, the fight against corruption and, ultimately, the european union depends on the outcome of these investigations? these include 20 cases concerning sapard project funding in romania. the vast majority of these projects concern agriculture. the report of the romanian relevant authority shows that in only one case there were suspicions of fraud, the rest were classified. but the rest have led to the bankruptcy of the companies that were investigated and that attracted these european funds. in these circumstances, does anyone take any responsibility for the fraud, the fairness of these investigations or are we looking at the formal opening of investigations? we need clear rules because respect for the european citizen is a priority here too.
mr president, i agree with my colleagues that commissioner avramopoulos' statements and responses and comments were purely bureaucratic, formal and did not give us any information. on the contrary, they are very worrying because they show that he will do nothing to remedy the situation at olaf. and in this context i want to ask him if he believes in the fight against corruption and against fraud and also ask him if it is true that he has altered, deleted, falsified the biennial eurobarometer on corruption made by the european commission? now, about how the commission supervises olaf, i think i have said enough. the report of the supervisory committee is very unhappy with the work of olaf and indeed we are talking about the work of management here and not the work of investigators. not enough data is transmitted so that the check cannot be carried out. also, olaf statistics are not credible, they vary from year to year or from a few months to a few months or from a few years to a few years and they vary a lot, so we cannot rely on them. and i would remind you in this context that the fraud with european money is at least three billion euros. and this is our money, and we want all those who steal it to get their hands out of our pockets. you too, commissioner avramopoulos, have a very important role and you should live up to that role in relation to what olaf does. that's why it's very good that we're establishing the prosecutor's office... )
mr president, knowing that the front national got a loan of eur 49 million from a russian bank, i consider there is a clear conflict of interest here, and the members in question should be prevented from voting. (applause)
in writing. ‒ climate change is one of the most important challenges facing humanity and requires a responsible approach and concrete action at global, national and regional levels. rising temperatures, droughts, floods and melting glaciers are increasingly common phenomena that confirm the existence of climate change. the european union has been engaged in the fight against climate change for several years, both internally and internationally, making it one of the eu's priorities. in this context, the 1997 kyoto protocol, which gave the european union and its member states a shared responsibility to meet their collective greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions reduction commitment of 8% compared to 1990 levels in the period 2008-2012. it has been an effective tool used by the eu. in view of the problems of climate change and the steps to be taken to protect the environment, i welcome the wish to establish a second commitment period under the kyoto protocol as this helps to eliminate risks for all present and future people on the planet.
in writing. ‒ i support the adoption of the doha amendment establishing a second commitment period under the kyoto protocol from 1 january 2013 to 31 december 2020, providing for legally binding emission reduction commitments, thus demonstrating that both the european union and the member states are committed to limiting their annual average greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions over the period 2013-2020.
in writing. ‒ under the doha agreement we committed to limiting our average annual greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions in the years 2013 to 2020 to 80% of our 1990 emissions. i am in favour of ratifying the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol as it will send a strong international signal about the efforts and the leadership of the eu and its member states in addressing climate change. i believe we need to increase political momentum towards a strong paris agreement and this is why i believe all the other parties to the kyoto protocol should rapidly advance their ratification process. this ratification is of tremendous importance to ensure the necessary global response to climate change. signing the agreement will keep us united, on the right track, sharing a vision of a climate-safe world with sustainable growth for all.
in writing. ‒ it is important that the ratification decision on the adoption of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol and the joint fulfilment of commitments by the european union sends an important message at international level. the eu must set a positive example in this respect.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the ratification decision on the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol because the eu has to promptly address the issue of climate change at an international level. a multilateral response to climate change, together with a smart, strategic framework for an energy union are two complementary eu policies. we cannot coherently tackle the issue of energy security and efficiency without taking into account climate change. in addition, the eu and its member states are already implementing a 20% emissions reduction target by 2020, which in fact allows them to agree to implement their commitments for the kyoto protocol. we are witnessing extreme weather events: very high temperatures on the hand, and on the other hand the western antarctic and greenland ice-sheets melting at unprecedented rates. while the oceans are warming and industrial pollution is booming we must not forget that nature takes care of us, so we need to take care of nature as well! protecting our planet and the future of our grandchildren has to be our primary goal.
în scris. ‒ the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change was signed in 1997 setting an internationally binding emission reduction target. i have voted for this report because it will commit the states parties to reducing greenhouse gases and also because it is a valuable part of the momentum for global climate action.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and iceland, of the other part, on iceland's participation in the joint fulfilment of the commitments of the european union, its member states and iceland for the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol. this agreement lays down the conditions governing iceland's participation in the joint fulfilment of commitments by the union, its member states and iceland. this country participates in the joint fulfilment of commitments on the same basis as eu member states. i believe that iceland's participation in the joint fulfilment of commitments for the second period under the kyoto protocol will have a visible impact and send a strong signal in terms of coordinated european efforts and engagement to address existing climate change issues.
in writing. ‒ i appreciate that iceland, which is not a member state, also supports the adoption of the doha amendment, thus demonstrating its interest in jointly meeting this commitment based on the total greenhouse gas emissions permitted for the period 2013-2020 under the eu climate and energy package.
in writing. ‒ the doha amendment establishes a second commitment period under the kyoto protocol, starting on 1 january 2013 and ending on 31 december 2020, with legally binding emissions-reduction commitments according to which the european union, its member states and iceland are jointly committed to limit their average annual greenhouse gas emissions in the years 2013-2020 to 80% of their base-year (in most cases 1990) emissions. since iceland is not an eu member state, the terms of joint fulfilment concerning its participation had to be laid down in a separate international agreement. the ratification decision on the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol, and the joint fulfilment of the commitments by the european union, will send a strong signal about the efforts and the leadership of the eu and its member states in addressing climate change at international level, and the consent of the european parliament to this agreement is therefore necessary.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report because the agreement with iceland, in its annex ii, contains the same terms of joint fulfilment that are also laid down in an annex to the council decision on the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol to the unfccc and the joint fulfilment of commitments thereunder.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for a council decision on the accession of croatia to the convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters between the member states of the european union, adopted by the council on 29 may 2000 on the basis of article 34 of the treaty on european union and to the protocol of 16 october 2001 thereto, as the 2012 act concerning the conditions of accession of the republic of croatia to the european union has simplified the accession of this country to the conventions (and protocols) concluded by the member states on the basis of article 34 of the treaty on european union. the convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters between the member states of the european union aims to support and facilitate cooperation between judicial, police and customs authorities in criminal matters. it complements, in particular, the 1959 council of europe convention on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters and its 1978 protocol. such an act is welcome as a spontaneous exchange of information (without prior request) can take place at any time between member states, concerning criminal offences and administrative offences for which the sanctioning or treatment is the responsibility of the receiving authority.
in writing. ‒ this commission recommendation for a council decision will pave the way for croatia to complete its accession to the 2000 convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters (‘the mla convention’), between the member states of the european union, and its protocol. it follows from the 2011 treaty of accession concerning croatia, which lists six conventions and protocols in the area of justice and home affairs to which croatia would accede by way of council decisions. this council decision will make the adjustments to the mla convention which are required by reason of croatia’s accession. i backed this proposal in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ on 30 june, croatia became the 28th member state of the european union. today, i have voted for this report to continue its accession to the conventions and protocols concluded by the other member states of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the general secretariat of the council drew attention to a technical error in the commission recommendation affecting the provision on the date of entry into force of the convention between croatia and the member states. indeed, according to article 1 of the recommendation, the convention enters into force between croatia and the member states for which it is in force on the first day of the first month following the date of adoption of the decision. in accordance with article 3, the decision 'enters into force' on the 20th day following its publication in the official journal. article 3 (5) of the act of accession therefore provides that, to this end, the council is to adopt a decision determining the date on which those conventions enter into force with regard to croatia and the adaptations to be made to them as a result of the accession of the new member state (which would include, in any event, the adoption of the conventions in the croatian language so that those versions are 'equally authentic'). i voted in favour of this recommendation for a council decision because i consider the requirement of publication to be an essential procedural requirement and because the provisions laid down clearly regulate time limits.
in writing. ‒ this commission recommendation for a council decision will pave the way for croatia to complete its accession to the 1997 convention on the fight against corruption involving officials of the european communities or officials of the member states of the european union (‘the pif convention’). it follows from the 2011 treaty of accession concerning croatia, which lists six conventions and protocols in the area of justice and home affairs to which croatia would accede by way of council decisions. this council decision will make the adjustments to the pif convention which are required by reason of croatia’s accession. i voted in favour of the proposal in plenary.
în scris. ‒ the 2011 accession treaty of the republic of croatia introduced a simplified system for the accession of croatia to the european union’s conventions and protocols. i have voted for this report, which recommended that the council determine when these conventions enter into force for the 28th member state of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the inclusion in the report of the key policy lines of our group, such as the forecast for a long-term perspective with russia. russia must respect the minsk agreements, the osce-based security order in europe and the territorial sovereignty of neighbouring countries. we should take a firm stand on russia, although we must keep building a constructive relationship and cooperate on global challenges such as jihadist terrorism, iran’s nuclear programme, destabilisation of the middle east and non-proliferation. i believe the report is balanced and sets out clear conditions for a full resumption of cooperation with russia.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support this report. the geopolitical context in ukraine should be the best incentive for europe to unite and respond robustly to the russian federation’s illegal aggression. let us show them what history has taught us! if we divide we will falter, but if we stand together we will thrive. the illegal annexation of crimea and the destabilisation of ukraine is firstly a huge threat to romania’s security and secondly to the eu. that is why we have to be prepared to use all the legislative instruments laid down in the lisbon treaty, such as the solidarity clause and the mutual defence clause. i fully support the idea in the report that the current crisis should not be left entirely to nato to deal with. the eu has the necessary tools to properly manage this crisis. we have postponed our common security defence plan for more than 50 years after the failure of the european defence community. it is now the time to step forward. the eu belongs to its citizens, and we have to be responsible and ensure them peace and security.
in writing. ‒ the russian federation’s role in the ukraine conflict has seriously affected eu-russia relations. consequently, some of the trading activities and agreements are at a halt and sanctions have been adopted. i have voted for this report in order to have a better view of eu—russia activities and agreements.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, as i believe the subject is the most sensitive and important foreign affairs issue for the european union. relations with russia certainly have to be preserved and enhanced, but only as long as the other side understands that all international treaties and norms, as well as the territorial integrity of ukraine and other third countries, must be fully respected. russia needs to re-evaluate its actions and to realise that cooperation, in this world of interdependence, is the only way forward towards mutual prosperity.
in writing. ‒ relations between the european union and russia are currently extremely tense and unfortunately increasingly show signs of the cold war era. i am convinced that maintaining this situation is not in anyone's interest. i agree that the russian leadership should seek to normalize relations and it is very important that the eu should also try to create a more favourable climate for this. this is simply in the interest of european citizens, of the population in ukraine, whose conditions are becoming more and more difficult, and of russian society as a whole. of course, it is important for member states to act in unison, but we have a better chance of doing so if we take into account the interests of all member states in our common policies and show solidarity with each other. in the changing circumstances of the coming years, we need to strengthen solidarity with each other in a number of areas, whether it is immigration, the economic crisis or balancing different interests with russia. this can be the political guideline along which national leaders and those in charge of the european institutions can determine the direction of their actions.
in writing. ‒ the energy challenge is one of the great challenges facing the european union. bringing our energy system on a new, more sustainable and secure path is long-term, but it is imperative that we take ambitious decisions to do so. to have a competitive, efficient, low-carbon economy, we need to define an energy policy at european union level and focus our efforts on a few key issues. ensuring that energy is supplied in sufficient quantities, at affordable prices, efficiently and sustainably are objectives that the european union must achieve in order to ensure the energy security that member states so badly need. i voted in favour of the european energy security strategy because it is a key element that helps to define the main challenges we need to face by developing an energy policy based on close coordination of member states' positions.
in writing. ‒ energy efficiency is the number one fuel in the world because it is the cheapest, most available and most sustainable, and i therefore believe that union policies need to set clear targets for measures to increase energy efficiency and promote investment in energy efficiency because it brings significant long-term gains for the security of supply at european level.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report because i believe that we urgently need a european energy security strategy if we do not want to be vulnerable to supply disruptions, whether caused by political or commercial disputes or by infrastructure failures. the path to energy security lies in energy transition, in putting energy efficiency first, in promoting renewables and in investing the money we currently spend on expensive imports domestically to develop our green technologies industry and create more jobs. this is why i would like to state my support for the amendment that we tabled regarding the inopportunity of continuing with authorisation for new shale gas activities by member states, clearly dangerous for the european environment. it is indeed clear that we should focus more on investing in infrastructure if we want to increase energy security and reduce costly imports of energy from outside the eu. i would like to welcome the inclusion in the report of higher 2030 targets for energy efficiency and renewable energy than those agreed upon by the european council. this is an achievement by my group that i consider to be of the utmost importance.
in writing. ‒ considerable progress has been made in recent years in strengthening energy security, notably through an increase in the share of renewable energy. first, we need to stress the importance of energy efficiency, the promotion of renewable energy and investment in the internal market. we can develop our green technology industry and create more jobs. the report underlines that the potential for energy savings is in all sectors of the economy, including industry, construction, transport, agriculture and services.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because the eu’s energy security is highly important in the current geopolitical context. the eu imports 53% of the energy it consumes, including almost 90% of its crude oil, and russia is responsible for a third of our oil imports. we need to send a strong message to our trading partners that we are striving for energy independence. member states have to unite and cut back on energy consumption, boost energy production and invest in renewable energy sources. it is clear that energy security will be a highly important factor when we are seated at the table of international negotiations with other global powers. i strongly believe that a sustainable energy landscape is the only way we can achieve energy security and keep energy prices low for our citizens. i am confident that, slowly but surely, the energy union will achieve energy independence and this will hopefully change the foreign policy of some member states.
in writing. ‒ given europe’s current economic vulnerabilities, an excessive energy bill or having our energy supplies disrupted are risks that should be avoided. nor can one accept the prospect of our citizens having to endure the cold of the winter because of the political machinations of some of our international energy providers. in this context, the aim of the present report was to complement what i consider to be an otherwise fairly balanced european commission strategic guideline on how to deal with these challenges. i was largely in favour of an ambitious itre committee position that emphasised energy efficiency, the completion of our internal energy market and a diversified energy supply and mix, as some of the key avenues to make the delivery of our energy more secure. ultimately, parliament did not reach the expected consensus. we have to realize that the stakes are high and that if an energy union is to be swiftly achieved for the equal benefit of all european citizens, less divisiveness in needed. perhaps this vote should be regarded as a cautioning point for the oncoming energy union debates.
în scris. ‒ the eu imports more than half of all the energy it consumes. the total import bill is more than eur 1 billion per day. european energy security strategy has enabled so—called stress tests so that eu countries will work together so that no household will be affected in the event of a winter gas disruption. i have voted for this report because of its long-term energy measures such as energy efficiency, energy production, building missing infrastructure and strengthening emergency and solidarity mechanisms.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on energy security because it is very important to have a clear and forward-looking strategy to ensure the energy independence of all eu states, including romania. the degree of dependence of many member states on energy imports remains a security and safety issue for the economic and social stability of the whole eu, with direct and serious effects on european citizens. in this regard, the funds planned in the 2014-2020 budget year for increasing the interconnection of the energy system at member state level is of critical importance and can help to better distribute the available resources. however, energy security and independence must and can only be achieved through sustainable development. it is sad that this report, which covered so many issues in the field of energy security, was rejected because it was too critical of the method of extracting shale gas, a highly sensitive subject for romania. i regret that the epp delegation has thus understood to reject an entire document because of their blind support for hydraulic fracturing.
in writing. ‒ in the context of recent geopolitical events, the importance of the european union's energy security has become essential. despite significant progress in strengthening it, by increasing the share of renewables and by a general reduction in demand, 53% of the total energy consumption of the european union is covered by imports. the main risks stem from the fact that much of this energy comes from geopolitically unstable areas such as the middle east, russia or the caucasus, and from the fact that many european states continue to be dependent on a single external source of supply, which leads to high costs for citizens and endangers national and european security. i support the idea of creating an energy union, based on the principles of competitiveness and sustainability, in a fully integrated energy market. we need full integration of energy systems to enable the trans-border transport of surplus energy in order to prevent shocks caused by external energy supplies. greater effective solidarity between european states would reduce risks to energy security and help to eliminate a serious vulnerability in the current international context marked by tensions in ukraine, the middle east and the maghreb.
in writing. ‒ the recent actions of the belgian investigators have exposed the lack of accountability and transparency of the eu anti-fraud office (olaf) and the unnecessary opening of minor cases only to classify them as successfully resolved. it appears that olaf's actions targeted 423 companies in one day, mainly from romania and bulgaria, that were linked to the attraction of european funds, with companies automatically blacklisted and payments suspended, even though the investigations against them were abruptly stopped. also, in view of the interruption of payments and the creation of gaps which subsequently involve new bureaucratic procedures, the commission must communicate what remedial measures it will take so that the member states recover the damage caused by olaf's actions. i voted in favour of the 2014 annual report of the olaf supervisory committee because i believe that it is the commission's duty to clarify all these serious deficiencies of olaf, precisely so that these errors cannot be repeated and the efficiency of the functioning of the european anti-fraud office returns to normal parameters.
in writing. ‒ i agree that olaf’s independence, transparency and respect for subsidiarity and proportionality need to be ensured and its actions clearly need to be clarified. however i believe that before taking a stand on olaf’s activities we should invite this institution to respond to the serious criticisms of the supervisory committee annual report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution in order to accentuate further the responsibility olaf holds, especially in respect of complying with the legal requirements for opening an investigation and providing justification for the cases in which the supervisory committee’s recommendations were not implemented. it is worrisome that the supervisory committee feels incapacitated in fully implementing its mandate. i believe the commission should take additional measures in that regard. moreover, the commission should further facilitate the negotiations between olaf and the supervisory committee by speeding up the delivery of an action plan with a view to amending the working arrangements between the two entities so as to create a working environment in which, inter alia, there is no hindrance to the committee fulfilling its mandate.
in writing. ‒ since its foundation in 1999, olaf has completed 3 500 investigations, resulting in the recovery of more than eur 1.1 billion to the eu budget. i have voted for this motion for a resolution in order to have a better view of the olaf supervisory committee annual activity report and improved communication between olaf’s director-general and its supervisory committee.
in writing. ‒ the recent debates in hungary on various highly sensitive topics such as freedoms, combating intolerance and discrimination, immigrant rights, equal treatment of religions, have attracted the attention of the european institutions. hungary has been and will be one of the countries on the eastern border of the european union that has over time fully demonstrated its pro-european character and, not least, along with romania and bulgaria, has been a factor of stability in the region. however, the recent debates, even if they have raised concerns in european chancellors, we would like to believe that they will certainly not lead to measures that will undermine european values and spirit. in today's geopolitical context, solidarity among all european states is needed more than ever to address the turmoil in the region and to strengthen the values and principles enshrined in international law.
in writing. ‒ recent developments in hungary have led to a serious deterioration of the situation with regard to freedom of the press and pluralism, the fight against intolerance and discrimination, the human rights of migrants, asylum seekers and refugees, freedom of assembly and association, the independence of civil society organisations, the rights of persons belonging to minorities and the independence of the judiciary. hungary's intention to reintroduce the death penalty today constitutes a serious violation of fundamental human rights. abolition of the death penalty is a precondition for eu membership and for remaining in the bloc. we strongly condemn the repeated statements by hungarian prime minister viktor orban to open a debate on the reintroduction of the death penalty in hungary. this concept is in flagrant breach of the values on which the union is founded. the european commission should immediately initiate a monitoring process on the situation of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in hungary and an assessment of the potential for systematic or serious breaches of the values on which the union is founded. the commission will have to submit a report on this to the european parliament and the council by september 2015.
in writing. ‒ the political situation in hungary is more and more worrisome. i agree with president junker that prime minister viktor orbán must reconsider his declarations on the reintroduction of the death penalty, which have nothing to do with the values and principles europe was built on. it is clear that discussion of capital punishment has been definitively closed by the adoption of the eu charter of fundamental rights. moreover, i believe that orbán’s anti-immigration declarations are not appropriate in a developed country that has been a member state of the european union since 2004. therefore, i support the call for an initiative by the commission to start a monitoring process on the situation of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in hungary, and to present a legislative proposal for the establishment of an eu scoreboard on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ meps and commission vice-president frans timmermans held a debate in may regarding the situation in hungary after prime minister viktor orbán’s remarks on the possibility of reinstating capital punishment and a public consultation on immigration launched by the hungarian government. i voted for this motion for a resolution to reiterate the fact that the european union is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. the motion for a resolution stresses the need for hungary to respect that fact.
in writing. ‒ i supported this text as i believe that mr orbán’s actions – and the support that the epp seems constantly to show him – are very worrying for the future of european democracy. mr orbán, a former freedom fighter himself, has unfortunately forgotten his roots in the fight for democratisation. his administration needs to stop taking steps of any kind that could endanger democracy and pluralism in hungary, and to focus more on the welfare and economic prosperity of the hungarian people.
in writing. ‒ unlike the epp group, i voted in favour of paragraph 12 of the joint resolution on the situation in hungary. as i did in my last mandate, i support the need to establish a european mechanism on democracy, the rule of law and human rights within the european union. what is happening now in romania - a prime minister under criminal investigation for serious corruption and refusing to resign, a parliament obstructing justice, threats against citizens who dare to freely express their dissent - fully demonstrates this. but when we talk about defending democracy, the rule of law and human rights, unfortunately our colleagues in the socialist group refuse to look further east than hungary. that is why we need such a mechanism at european level, based on common rules and clear procedures. it is about defending values that are too important to be left to chance or to ad hoc solutions.
in writing. ‒ the european union remains committed to further enlargement, and in this context, turkey has committed to fulfilling the copenhagen criteria and to carrying out adequate and effective reforms so as to gradually align itself with the european union. the reform process, in the context of the negotiations with the eu, could represent a significant opportunity for turkey to develop a strong pluralist democratic system with strong institutions, to the benefit of all citizens of turkey and closer relations with the eu, due to geographical proximity, historical ties, the large turkish community living in the eu and, not least, close economic ties and common strategic interests. however, the commission report reveals, among other things, that turkey does not have a free press and the level of corruption has increased worryingly over the past year. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that turkey is a strategic partner for the eu and that active and credible negotiations are a good framework for exploiting the full potential of eu-turkey relations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report since i believe that it strikes a fine balance between the need to continue the accession negotiations and criticisms of turkey’s performance in a number of crucial areas, such as the rule of law, fundamental freedoms and basic rights, the rights of minorities and women, etc. the report, while being critical of turkey’s backsliding on democratic reforms, maintains that the eu and turkey are engaged in accession negotiations. an acceptable compromise was also achieved on the cyprus issue. the report also expresses strong support for the kurdish peace process, which has enormous implications for turkey’s internal and foreign policies.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report in order to have a better view of the state of play in eu-turkey relations and to monitor and asses respect for the rule of law and democracy, human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ as a long-time supporter of turkey’s bid for a closer relationship with the eu, if not to become a full member, i naturally voted in favour of this document. i did so especially in the light of the recent elections, which have shown a return to plurality and a popular vote which clearly sent a message to mr erdogan’s administration. i have great hopes for a return to pluralism and normality in turkey, and also that the eu can strengthen its relationship with this very important partner and regain its popularity in the hearts of turkish people.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the 2014 commission report on the progress made by turkey, given the importance of the eu-turkey partnership in the current geopolitical context, which is so tense in the black sea and middle east. the report voted on today underlines the importance of good cooperation between turkey and the european union, but criticises the latest political developments in the country. i share the concern expressed about the significant increase in corruption in turkey. we are also concerned about the deterioration in the respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, in particular with regard to media freedom. i strongly condemn the recent police raids and the arrest of several journalists in december. the recent actions of the turkish government, aimed at press freedom and diversity of opinion, are incompatible with the fundamental rights of the european union, making it difficult to resume the negotiation process. in line with the eu's commitment to respect for the rule of law and fundamental values, i believe that reforms in the areas of the judiciary and fundamental rights, respectively justice, freedom and security, are urgently needed in turkey.
rapporteur.– mr president, after the cold war, the black sea – which was relatively closed before – became, first, a transport route for caspian oil and gas towards the west and, second, a source of energy in itself, forcing both its opening up and its consideration in a larger regional perspective, namely the ‘black sea area’. thus the black sea area has become both economically relevant and politically contested, as witness the geopolitics of the various pipelines crossing it and the efforts by russia and turkey to oppose outside penetration. the breaking up of the former soviet union and the admission of romania and bulgaria to both nato and the eu have markedly transformed the political landscape, specifically compelling the eu to come up with an integrative instrument, namely the black sea synergy, back in 2007. contrary to the bureaucratic view, the initiative has had little impact in terms of fostering a regional common identity among the countries in the area, and consequently on strengthening cooperation between them. in part that was so because almost all the countries involved had more important forms of collaboration with the eu, other than the synergy. however, the relatively reduced efficiency of the initiative is geopolitical. the area was in flux in 2007 and it still is today. after the illegal annexation of crimea by russia, the latter’s destabilisation of eastern ukraine and the practical inclusion of both abkhazia and south ossetia in russia’s military organisation, one could say that the black sea area is moving back to what it looked like two decades ago, with russia attempting to control its northern shores, as the soviet union did 24 years ago. the occupation of crimea and the current efforts to cut two territorial corridors – one from russia towards crimea and another from crimea towards transnistria – are undeniable realities. the siege of mariupol and the destabilisation of odessa are testimony to that. the fact is that, since the illegal annexation, crimea has become a launching pad towards bosnia – and the area around and beyond – due to the transformation of the initially small, defensive russian force stationed in sevastopol into a significant strike force equipped with long-range force-projection systems, quite apart from an aggressive programme of modernisation of the russian black sea fleet. in sum, russia has thus provided itself with a southern kaliningrad in support of its potential expansion. consequently, in the last year-and-a-half the black sea has acquired important military relevance, in addition to its existing economic relevance, which could not leave the eu uninterested, especially when both the eu security and defence strategies are being revised, making all the union’s other interests – environment for instance – inevitably mediated by the long—term militarisation process initiated in the area. therefore, the aim of this report is to increase the eu’s awareness of the complex situation created in the black sea, which could not – and should not – be either ignored or left entirely to nato to deal with. this reality calls for responsible management of the situation in the black sea, but a dialogue with russia – provided it was not misinterpreted by the latter as an encouragement to dare more – should obligatorily be accompanied by the continuation of deterrence as part of a strategic reassurance to the eastern members of both nato and the eu, who have lost faith in russia’s real intentions.
blue-card question.– in fact i would like to ask our colleague, mr couso permuy, whether he would speak the same way in this chamber if a country came and seized a part of his country’s territory. do you know, mr couso permuy, that nowadays the russian black sea fleet is already greater than the combined fleets of all the other black sea coastal states and poses a tremendous threat to european union security and defence?
mr president, allow me to welcome my colleague, ioan mircea pascu, and his excellent report which gives an x-ray of the military and strategic reality in the black sea basin. and let me stress that if after this report the european commission does not update its black sea synergy, we will end up with neither security nor energy but just another piece of paper. in this context, i would like to welcome president poroshenko's decision to denounce the five agreements between ukraine and the russian federation on the transit of russian military forces in the separatist transnistria region of the republic of moldova through ukrainian territory and to point out that these laws were adopted on 21 may. i would also like to point out that these agreements, although not applied in practice, the shipments were carried out against the will of the ukrainian state. as a result of this reality, 1,500 russian special forces (spetsnaz) are in transnistria. it's likely that russia intends to build an airlift. in the same context of the excellent pascu report raises the issue of the vulnerability of the critical energy infrastructure in the black sea basin, now and in the future. finally, i would like to draw attention to russia's gradual strategy of implementing the occupation of some of the neighbouring territories by moving from internal inter-ethnic conflicts to frozen conflicts and then to their direct occupation as in the case of south ossetia, abkhazia and crimea. last but not least, i highlight russia's massive presence in a large-scale electronic warfare identified as such by nato and european union partners and mention that russia has turned crimea into an impressive military arsenal in order to project its strategic capabilities on the eastern region of nato and the european union. this is why nato and non-nato countries in the baltic sea decided to build the defensive pact. thank you and congratulations again to the rapporteur.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, i do not agree with what you have said. i support the rapporteur's view and i refer to a fairly clear figure: 6,000 people. it's the number of people killed during the conflict in ukraine. you talk about a guilty man, but how do you know who's guilty? i believe that the incidents that took place and the actions of russia have caused the death of 6,000 people. what is your message to the families of the 6,000 people who were killed?
mr president, i would also like to welcome mr pascu's report. i consider it a very accurate assessment of the strategic and security situation in the area. i wish that this assessment had been debated in this parliament a long time ago. unfortunately, we are very late in assessing the situation, and not only in agreeing a common position. in my opinion, the minsk agreement is a failure. there was no mention of crimea; as such, the security developments in the area, in transnistria, the escalation of the conflict with ukraine give me reason to believe that we will soon have russian troops near the mouth of the danube, which will create a very big problem for the security of the european union. there will be a very long border with russia and first of all we will have to try to take significant steps, first of all diplomatic, to prevent such an escalation of the conflict.
mr president, i too congratulate the rapporteur on the excellent report he has presented today. the european union's black sea security strategy needs to be redefined and strengthened. this is necessary because of the changing strategic landscape in the area, so that we can speak of an increase in the capacity to react to developments in the neighbourhood, which seriously affect european security. the illegal annexation of crimea, the numerous conflicts frozen by russia in the region, but especially its arming and strengthening of its military capabilities, both strategically and tactically, are likely to provoke a firm reaction from the european union and the united states of america. the eastern borders of the european union, including those of romania and poland, as well as the baltic states, are under increasing pressure. i therefore consider that the sanctions regime applied to the russian federation should be continued and strengthened. member states must remain united in one voice in the hybrid war being waged by russia against ukraine and show solidarity and commitment to sanctioning actions that contravene the rules of international law. energy security is being used today by the russian federation as a real weapon, but we draw its attention to the fact that, however much the member states may depend on this dimension, they will never accept the violation of the basic principles of security in europe. i believe that the possibility of providing ukraine with military means of defence, but not only, should be considered with all responsibility and seriousness, so that we can talk about a real strengthening of its defence capacity, as a guarantee for maintaining peace and security in the region, before it is too late. the us has shown its willingness to do so, and the landlocked states can make a significant contribution if they join forces. ukraine, the republic of moldova and georgia should therefore consider the possibility of further cooperation, including in the military field. the eu and nato must also continue their efforts to ensure that the black sea remains an open and secure economic area.
madam president, the illegal annexation of crimea by the russian federation and the military conflict in eastern ukraine has of course completely changed the security balance in the black sea region. these two pose new security threats to the european union and to our eastern neighbours. the european union is now only some 100 kilometres away from the war in eastern ukraine and less than 300 kilometres away from crimea. this of course brings us to the point where we need to build a new comprehensive eu strategy for the black sea region which corresponds to the new challenges. the current approach of the european union in the region is outdated. the fact is that we were able neither to prevent russia’s invasion of georgia in 2008, the war in ukraine or the annexation of crimea, nor to provide suitable responses, and we have also not been able to provide solutions to the frozen conflicts in the region. i expect the high representative/vice-president to come up with a comprehensive strategy addressing the new security challenges in the region in the near future. the fact is that russia is increasing its military spending and is ready to pursue military actions which we, the european union, are of course not ready to pursue. we are a project for freedom, and this is one of the fundamental achievements of 70 years of european integration. we should of course never jeopardise this fundamental achievement. precisely because of this, we should act in a way which prevents escalation in the region and not only addresses it, which would mean an additional level of escalation. we should also take into account the military, reputational and financial risks which the russian federation is ready to take to keep the region insecure and, basically, to prevent the black sea region from becoming an area governed by the rule of law, a prosperous and a secure region. this is exactly where we step in. my last point is that these countries in the region should be free to make their own foreign policy decisions, to choose whether to engage with russia or the european union and how to do so. that should be their option. we are not pressuring them, and the russian federation should not pressure them either.
madam president, first of all i would like warmly to congratulate the rapporteur. the seizure of crimea by russia and the start of the war in eastern ukraine by russia set up a major geopolitical crisis in the black sea area. crimea offers russia a strong forward offensive point. it is a thorn in ukraine’s side and a thorn for the european union’s eastern border security and defence. russia, as i mentioned, has tremendously increased – and is increasing – its offensive capability in the black sea area. as i also mentioned earlier, the russian black sea fleet is already greater than the combined fleets of all the other black sea coastal states. among those six riparian states, two are member states of the european union. commissioner, i would like to tell you that i was disappointed by what you said and, at the same time, surprised that you talked only about the soft power of the european union. we need real european union common security and defence – real common security capabilities. otherwise we are not going to play any role.
rapporteur.– madam president, i would first like to say that the report is based on facts and realities. some of it comes directly from russian open sources, so there is no point in denying it. a second observation i would like to make is that there are no ample references, due to the title and the subject of the report, either to the legal aspects – which have been touched upon by some of my colleagues – or to the human rights situation, as has also been mentioned here. all i would like to say here is that there were no human rights problems before, when crimea belonged to ukraine; but now there are, after crimea was annexed illegally by russia, with the tatars. so i think we should bear that in mind. some of our colleagues have mentioned that the nato enlargement, which was disrespecting a pledge made to mr gorbachev – it was mentioned that he said so – was the cause of what has happened with respect to ukraine. i would say that even the vision of mr gorbachev that there was a pledge that nato should not enlarge is ignoring the sovereign will of the countries, because we wanted to get into nato. probably he meant to say that nato should not have accepted our decisions, but that is exactly what the warsaw pact used to be like. i participated in one of the last meetings of the warsaw pact and i participated in nato, so i know the difference between them. anyone coming into the chamber – probably visitors up there – and listening to our debate would believe that we have seen two different movies. we saw a movie in which russia is occupying foreign territory through force and transforming it into a stronghold. others have seen a poor, defenceless, peace-loving russia defending itself against conquest by nato and the eu. that is not acceptable. russia has only two sticks – not a carrot and a stick – one bigger stick and one smaller stick – and the favour done by russia means being beaten with the smaller stick.
in writing. the eu must be a source of stability in the black sea region. defending the principles of democracy, independence and sovereignty of the states of the region is paramount to any long-term regional strategy. european solidarity in support of the reform and democratisation objectives of moldova, georgia and ukraine is an integral part of the security strategy that the european union is promoting in the black sea basin to restore stability and prosperity to the region. the illegal annexation of crimea has produced an unstable and violent climate in eastern ukraine. the separatists are in the sphere of influence of the russian federation and this must be firmly condemned by the entire international community. to this challenge, in my view, the eu must respond with firmness and wisdom by taking the necessary measures to restore peace in the region and to thwart any further attempts to destabilise the area. to bring the black sea region back to prosperity and stability, we need, above all, actions that guarantee the safety of people and respect for human rights in eastern ukraine. life remains the most important resource we have a duty to protect. the european union, together with its international partners, by uniting around this principle, can overcome the current crisis and restore regional security.
madam president, in africa, history is repeating itself. another president, seeing the end of his power, is trying, comme d’habitude, to modify the constitution to remain head of state. the result is rebellion by the army, and in some cases also the population: a coup d’état or civil war. this is a time for burundi. i would like to honour the bravery and resilience of the journalists of the independent newspapers, especially the ones from the weekly magazine iwacu that declared in their editorial that they must resist – never mind their destroyed newsrooms or their fleeing or murdered colleagues. this political instability in burundi is not acceptable, either from a geopolitical point of view or from a humanitarian one. internal disorders are likely to bring a population already devastated by hunger to its knees. commissioner, you must transmit the message to ms mogherini that it is time for the eu to act and to intervene in order to bring this impossible situation to an end.
in writing. the decision of the current president to stand for a third term in the context of the elections of 26 june 2015 provoked the anger of the opposition and numerous ongoing demonstrations. the authorities have resorted for the moment to arrests and repression, with many dead and wounded, instead of opening a constructive dialogue to de-escalate the situation. it is essential that authorities, political forces and civil society engage in a transparent and inclusive political dialogue. this dialogue must lead to a political process that respects the constitutional provisions and institutions as well as the fundamental principles of the arusha peace and reconciliation agreement of 2000 in order to ensure the continuation of the electoral process, which must be credible, transparent and peaceful. the decision of the african union to send human rights observers to burundi as soon as possible in order to report abuses and take action to resolve conflicts at the local level is to be welcomed. the european union must demand respect for fundamental freedoms and guarantee, in particular, freedom of opinion, expression and the press, as well as freedom of peaceful protest.
member of the commission.– mr president, i think we have just sent an unequivocal message from this chamber tonight, which is about fifa and fifa’s integrity. i think fifa’s integrity needs to be restored and people’s trust in it rebuilt. it is unequivocal and there is a consensus. on the other hand, we have to respect some things as limits for our action. the very first limit is the principle of subsidiarity. we have to take action under the principle of subsidiarity. that means that we have no room for legislation on sport at european level, but we have to support, foster and encourage closer cooperation in sport issues. the other one is the autonomy of the sport. let me make this clear: fifa is not a european organisation. it is not only an autonomous organisation but a worldwide organisation. fifa’s problem is not only europe’s problem; it is the problem of world sport, of world football. the european union can play a big role in restoring trust in fifa, but we are not the only players and we are outsiders. are we outsiders? yes and no. we have tools and we have instruments to help restore trust in fifa. we can help those member states, those associations and those players that are interested in rebuilding fifa and fifa’s role. we are just now working in a working group on good governance and we have strong allies in that work. we have stakeholders with whom we are in close cooperation and i think that we have good results and we can continue along this path in the future as well. you are about to adopt a good resolution. i fully agree with the content of the resolution. it is a powerful message with strong words. i fully support this text and i support all your efforts and i ask you for your support for all my efforts in rebuilding the integrity and trust of sport and sports associations in the future.
president-in-office of the council.– mr president, i have listened to carefully to the views expressed during the course of the debate. it is clear that the issue at the heart of the debate has left no one indifferent. we all agree that there must be a change and that we have to give a red card to cheating, doping, match-fixing, corruption and other crimes. fifa is at the centre of a criminal investigation, and this is worrying. we hope that the investigation and trial will be fair and speedy. many of you have correctly pointed out the principle of autonomy in sport. indeed, the responsibility for good governance and the proper functioning of sports organisations lies with the international sporting organisations themselves. at the same time, you are right that we should look into the better use of the existing framework. matters such as good governance principles, auditing rules, combating corruption and the protection and promotion of workers’ rights are important. however, we should not over-regulate. we must remember that only true will and commitment can bring these rules into practice. a key word here is good governance. i hope fifa will draw conclusions from the current situation. the european union will follow closely the development of the events, and i am sure the eu sports ministers, meeting informally on 6 and 7 july in luxembourg, will address this issue.
in writing.– the existence of corruption at the highest levels of the football world, with football now being the ‘world’s game’, is a proven fact that must be condemned by all means. this endemic corruption not only compromises the quality of play on the field, but reduces fan support for the sport and tarnishes the beauty of the game. fifa is still structured in a way that fosters corruption: it is clear that the decision—making system must be revised. it is time to reform fifa, creating a separate institution that functions with transparency and oversight, and also to deal with the broader problems that the world cup creates in hosting nations, such as the increase in public debt, evictions and militarisation of public spaces. these revelations are very discouraging for the millions of football fans who deserve a clean, transparent sport. but they are also an opportunity to really raise the international football authority up to the level of the sport it represents.
mr president, i will start by reminding all my colleagues that despite the us-led coalition air strikes against the islamic state group, today it appears that the group is stronger than ever. it now controls about half of syria’s territory and one third of iraqi territory: definitely more than 12 months ago. there is an urgent need for us to revisit our strategy and our way of fighting isis. islamic state fighters have frequently destroyed ancient artefacts like the ones in mosul and other places in iraq. in may the city of palmyra fell – a city at the crossroads of several ancient civilisations which houses some of the world’s most spectacular ruins. the fighting is putting at risk one of the most significant sites in the world and a unesco world heritage site. therefore, i would like to reiterate today the importance of the preservation of the cultural heritage of the whole of humanity. the destruction of these monuments is not just a war crime and should be considered as an imprescriptible crime. it is the equivalent of a crime against humanity.
i've been listening very closely to the debate on the tragic situation in syria. it's good that this topic is on the table, but we have to admit that this debate clearly shows that the islamic state is growing stronger and that the international community has not yet found a way to fight it. i would therefore like to hear from the council whether the eu is considering other means of suppressing this extremely criminal and dangerous group and whether it is really not possible to consider further military intervention. as for palmyra itself, it is truly tragic that, in addition to war crimes and the killing of tens of hundreds of civilians, cultural monuments are being destroyed. i think we should consider how to tighten the penalties for the trade, the trafficking, the peddling of antiquities that are stolen as part of the war that the islamic state is waging against our civilization. i think that a harsh punishment could lead, at least in part, to less trade in these relics, and to less funding for the islamic state.
mr president, the eu and its member states have to involve themselves as soon as possible, and act strongly, in order to save parts of the historical and cultural heritage of mankind, especially in the middle east. i am deeply concerned that terrorists from daesh have seized control of the historic syrian city of palmyra. the population is scared to death and the historical heritage of this city is under threat of destruction. these shameful events are also due to the many mistakes made by the assad government. one of these mistakes, clearly reflecting the repressive nature of bashar assad’s regime in syria, is the detention of mazen darwish. i strongly support our call for an immediate and unconditional release of mazen darwish and other political prisoners in syria arrested solely for exercising their right to the freedom of expression.
madam president, the capture of palmyra by isis put the city in the international spotlight but left residents there wondering if ancient statues are worth more than their lives. the community is facing acute problems such as shortages of food, water and medicine. in addition, they could become targets of assad’s airstrikes, not to mention the brutal acts of isis militants. however, i want to emphasise again how crucial heritage sites are, as testimony to the continuous presence of diverse communities in these regions. the destruction of religious and historical patrimony goes together with the violence that is directed against these groups. this resolution highlights how these acts can be considered as crimes against humanity and as cultural cleansing. it is also high time for the international community to develop a renewed protocol for the protection of cultural heritage in times of war, and i urge the eu to be at the forefront of this.
author. madam president, as you know, we usually deal here with cases of human rights defenders or other people, other citizens, who are under pressure from the authorities of either authoritarian countries or, as in the case of the communist countries, truly totalitarian ones. this time, with the resolution on paraguay, we are discussing a private matter. it is a rape, committed within a family, a horror perpetrated on a ten-year-old girl. this type of tragedy, unfortunately, is quite common in latin america, not only in paraguay but also in other countries. i know that the left chose paraguay because it has more interest in focusing on that country than on others. i think it is a mistake, just as it is a mistake to turn this debate, which i believe is about the rights of the child, into a debate on other issues, in particular abortion. of course, the abortion is necessary in this case and it will be done. that is why we have drawn up a resolution on this subject with the conservatives. i would add that, while i welcome the fact that the high representative, federica mogherini, came to this house as vice-president of the commission during the debate on emergencies, no commission representative is present today. i don't understand why.
madam president, denying a young girl essential medical care is nothing short of cruel and inhumane treatment and a gross violation of her fundamental human rights. this is why i believe that the request to paraguay to recognise the inalienable rights of women and girls to bodily integrity and autonomous decision making, especially regarding the right to voluntarily access family planning and safe and legal abortion, must be strongly supported. it is unacceptable for governments to turn a blind eye to cases of child pregnancy and the sexual abuse of women. they must recognise that it is undeniable that early pregnancy poses a severe risk to the health of girls and to their children. moreover, rapid access to safe abortion for women and girls who are victims of rape or incest should be guaranteed.
madam president, the people of nepal have been through a very difficult time lately due to the devastating earthquake that struck the country last month, and i would like to offer them my deepest sympathy. i would like to express my concern about the thousands of tibetan refugees living in nepal. most of them do not have nepalese citizenship, and as a consequence they become invisible to the state. tibetans in nepal do not have their basic rights guaranteed, since all the human rights provisions in nepal’s constitution apply exclusively to nepali citizens. moreover, nepal is not a party to the un convention relating to the status of refugees. it is heart-breaking that, at times like these, it becomes clear how the most invisible groups tend to be extremely vulnerable. i would therefore urge the nepalese government to polish up its constitution in such a way that at least the basic rights of everyone living in its territory can be guaranteed, especially during times of crisis.
madam president, i call on the european union institutions and the member states to continue to support the reconstruction process in nepal and to increase the humanitarian aid being given to that country. i would like to express my deepest condolences to the families of the victims and my strong solidarity with the people of nepal after the recent devastating earthquakes there. i would also like to thank the state of nepal and the international community for the efforts they are making in the reconstruction of the country. however, it is true that more could be done in terms of search-and-rescue activities, providing humanitarian relief to people in remote, hard-to-reach areas, ensuring free and smooth access for all incoming humanitarian rescue and relief provision, and taking action to support resilience and mitigate the effects of natural disasters. europe must stand beside nepal in its transition towards democracy, and in the field of development cooperation we will keep on mobilising international financial support.
i'm listening to this debate very carefully. of course, we need to help, but at this stage we have to deal with how the aid is distributed, whether certain groups in nepal are discriminated against and whether the aid is serving its purpose. like many colleagues, i am very surprised by the news in the media and in the press, as well as by the information from czech compatriots who are in nepal at this moment. information that some groups are simply not getting help. whether it's the dalits, or say poor children, women, these are the groups that are very vulnerable today. that is why i am very pleased that the motion for a resolution contains a clear call to our high commissioner, mrs mogherini, to engage with the government in nepal and make it clear that aid can and will continue to be provided that it is used fairly. without fair use, aid becomes just an economic tool in the hands of the ruling class in nepal, and that's wrong in my opinion.
madam president, first in many years. my dear colleagues, the tragedy in nepal should raise awareness: people have died, others have been injured, there are people without shelter, without food, without medicine and not ten, not a hundred, millions. we, as the european parliament, have to thank the volunteers from many countries who went to the scene, who brought aid. they're volunteers from my country, too, and they're publicly thanking them. i believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we as the european union, as a parliament, must show solidarity not just in statements but in concrete deeds. the european parliament, the european commission must find new and more effective ways of helping the people of nepal financially. in my country there was an earthquake many years ago and i saw dead, missing, people without (...). that is why i feel solidarity (...) the president interrupted the speaker. i was saying that i lived in my country an earthquake in 1977 and i saw people pulled out from under the rubble, people without shelter. that is why i think we must be in solidarity and i feel in solidarity with the people of nepal and i propose that we europeans, parliamentarians, set an example by creating a solidarity account.
in crisis situations, people react, collaborate, show solidarity and step in to help those in need. the instinct to jump in and help people is inscribed in the fundamental values of humanity and is part of our very essence. the s&d resolution underlines the need for solidarity and unity in the international community towards a people who have suffered enormously in the face of an uncontrollable natural event. the nepalese people need constant and sustained assistance to remove the dangers connected to the tragedy of 13 may. in the face of the dangers looming over the future of over 1.7 million children in nepal, we must know that we cannot remain passive. the destruction of infrastructure in nepal has very long-term effects which (...) the tripling of eu funding for humanitarian assistance in nepal is commendable, but what we need to do is to continue together to rebuild nepal on the principles of unity and solidarity, so that nepalese civilization can continue to provide protection and well-being for its citizens.
mr nuttall, the sitting was suspended because of the disorder in the chamber, according to rule 22. maybe you know something about that, since you were here yesterday evening. i am sure you can understand.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes)
rapporteur.– madam president, this oral amendment is intended to bring the situation up to date. there was a reference to the deal between france and russia over the mistral assault ships, and now we have negotiations for the termination of that deal. therefore, as you know, we have to adapt the report to reflect that situation. so – instead of ‘urges france to abandon, unequivocally and finally, the sale of amphibious assault ships to russia’, which is to be deleted, we propose the inclusion of: ‘welcomes france’s decision to reconsider the delivery of the mistral amphibious assault ships to russia and salutes france’s negotiations to unequivocally and finally cancel this deal’.
rapporteur.– madam president, actually, because there was a mention of the same situation with the mistral in 2 paragraphs, we have to adjust this one too. we would add to the end of the paragraph ‘and looks forward to the successful conclusion of the negotiations to cancel this contract’.
madam president, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs and all those colleagues who have taken an interest in this report, and also for your votes. (applause)
that concludes the vote.
oral explanations of vote
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the strategic military situation in the black sea basin following the illegal annexation of crimea by russia because i believe that it correctly captures the situation in this region. the report also proposes a set of measures to strengthen the black sea basin region so that aggressions similar to the annexation of crimea are no longer possible. the member states of the european union must remain united in one voice on strengthening the sanctions regime against russia as long as it fails to comply with international law, while expressing readiness to resume talks when the occupied territories are returned to ukraine and international law is respected.
in writing. ‒ considering the recent developments in the military situation in the black sea basin which represent a big challenge to eu security, i welcome more warmly than ever the adoption in the subcommittee on security and defence (sede) of this comprehensive report. i believe that the eu can play a very constructive role and be a very important actor in this region, as this region is for the european union. stability in this region must be our key priority. we must enhance cooperation with nato and with the united states, and the osce should enlarge the scope of its efforts with regard to black sea security, this being fundamental to resolving protracted conflicts in the country.
in writing. – the black sea basin is one of the world’s most strategic regions, with high importance to the european union and its member states, thus ensuring their security and defence. i have voted in favour of this report, which highlights the strategic importance of the black sea basin to my country, romania, and also to the whole european union.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the serious events in ukraine in 2014 and 2015, i voted in favour of the report on the strategic military situation in the black sea basin following the illegal annexation of crimea by russia. due to its neighbourhood, the stability of the black sea region is fundamental to the security of the european union, which is threatened by the illegal annexation of crimea by russia. in addition, he has been involved in the repression of the ukrainian people. in response to this major change in the strategic and security landscape of the black sea, the report recommends maintaining a firm position and continuing communication with russia. however, due to the lack of trust following russia's recent actions, any resumption of cooperation must rely primarily on the firm strategic reassurance offered by nato to its eastern members. secondly, a change in russia's policy towards ukraine, in particular the full and unconditional implementation of the minsk agreements of september 2014 and february 2015 and the return of crimea to ukraine, is very important for the restoration of control of the ukrainian authorities over their territory within the internationally recognised borders.
oral explanations of vote
that concludes the explanations of vote.
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ the scandal at the fifa board level is seriously damaging the credibility of the world's most famous sports federation. it is sad that on the one hand the athletes promote positive attitudes and the spirit of fair play, and on the other hand the investigations reveal serious acts of corruption and money laundering, undermining the integrity of the federation. i am convinced that the very substantial sums invested in the football industry and the lack of a regulatory authority created the conditions for the emergence of acts of corruption and the creation of a kleptocratic structure that held control of the entire structure of the federation. the resignation of sepp blatter as fifa president does not fully solve the problem, a complete overhaul of the federation's organizational structure is needed. a body to oversee and regulate the activity of sports federations would be a way to stop abuses, and limiting the mandates of those appointed to the management structures would remove the establishment of clans for whom sport is an illicit business. i voted in favour of this resolution because i am convinced that structural reforms are needed at fifa level, both to restore its image and to increase transparency in decision-making.
in writing. ‒ the existence of corruption at the highest levels of the football world – with football now being the ‘world’s game’ – is a proven fact that must be roundly condemned. this endemic corruption not only compromises the quality of play on the field but also reduces fan support for the sport and tarnishes the beauty of the game. fifa is still structured in a way that fosters corruption: it is clear that the decision-making system must be revised. it is time to reform fifa, creating a separate institution that functions with transparency and oversight, and also to deal with the broader problems that the world cup creates in hosting nations, such as the increase in public debt, evictions and the militarisation of public spaces. the recent revelations are very discouraging for the millions of football fans who deserve a clean, transparent sport. but they are also an opportunity to raise the authority of international football governance to the level of the sport it represents.
in writing. – the formation of fifa took place on 21 may 1904 (111 years ago) to oversee international competition. headquartered in zürich, its membership now comprises 209 national associations. fifa is today responsible for both the organisation and the promotion of a number of tournaments, which generate revenue from sponsorship. in 2013 fifa had revenues of over usd 1.3 billion, for a net profit of 72 million, and had cash reserves of over usd 1.4 billion. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution that opposes the corruption scandal among fifa’s high-level officials and proposes solutions to avoid such situations in the future through more transparency, self-regulation and activity reports.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution on the recent revelations of corruption within fifa, as it expresses the views of a very large number of citizens who are outraged by the systemic extent of corruption within fifa. there has been a lot of talk for a long time, and investigative journalists have pointed out many times, of suspicions of serious corruption within this organization, and it is to be appreciated that a very thorough international investigation has been launched. it is shocking that this organization, which promotes fairness and fair play through the sport it represents, is actually being crushed by a systemic corruption that calls into question many, if not all, of the decisions it has made over the years. unfortunately, this is the result when we talk about huge amounts of money being managed by closed, non-transparent organizations with no independent and permanent oversight. all those who have committed illegalities must pay, and this organization must be rebuilt on a democratic and transparent basis so that these acts are not repeated.
the problem, as i understand it, is that the debate was about getting the heads of the political groups to speak. in this respect, no other member could speak. but this formula was found, so that you could now take the floor and say what you had to say then. you can take the floor.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the report of mr josé manuel fernandes and mr udo bullmann on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european fund for strategic investments and amending regulations (eu) no 1291/2013 and (eu) no 1316/2013 (com ((2015) 0010 - c8-0007/2015 - 2015/0009 ((cod)) ((a8-0139/2015).
blue-card question. – mr torvalds, i could say that the outcome of the negotiations represents a great success for us, socialists and democrats in europe. at the same time, i understand what you said. what is your opinion on a budgetary solution for financing a guarantee fund for the european fund for strategic investments? it will not be able to function without a guarantee fund.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteurs of the european parliament who led these negotiations, because it was an extremely difficult task for all those who took part. it was a difficult negotiation, with four committees, with many rapporteurs, and at the same time, on the other side, there was a kind of union between the council and the commission and i hope this will not happen again in the future. i think they have done a very good job, they have managed to mitigate the effects on the two programmes 'connecting facility' and 'horizon 2020' and i think this will be seen in the future. now we have the legal framework. it was a project that had been long overdue. now let us see what the member states are doing, what projects they are presenting and let us hope that all the other eligible entities will present projects that cannot be financed by other means and projects that lead to economic development, to jobs. at the same time, i ask the commission to ensure that in the 2016 budget, in the same negotiation with my colleague mr fernandes, it tries to put money back into the connecting europe facility and horizon 2020. thank you very much.
question asked in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure. mr president, you mentioned in your speech that it would be important to see how we can also provide funds to smes and at the same time you said that you were sure that there would be no political influence. can you explain how you're sure there won't be political influence?
mr president, following the sharp drop of investments in the eu in the aftermath of the financial and economic crisis, the setting up of the european fund for strategic investments could be one of the answers to the provision of stimulus the european economy needs. i am hopeful that through a well-managed fund we can efficiently attract leveraged private investment in order to achieve the goal of creating more than a million new medium- and long-term jobs. the fact that, during the negotiations with the commission and the council, parliament succeeded in minimising the budget cuts in the connecting europe facility and the horizon 2020 programmes is also a great achievement, which ensures that vital financing for energy and transport infrastructures and research and development projects is secured.
in writing. the european union needs additional investment in the real economy over the next three years, and the european fund for strategic investments can and should support higher risk projects that can contribute to job creation and growth in the member states. by maximising the impact of public spending and unlocking the financing of private investment projects, europe can make progress in the member states and in the sectors where job creation and growth are most needed. we can only hope that there will be favourable treatment under the stability and growth pact for national contributions to the european fund for strategic investments, but also that the specificities of the member states will be taken into account.
in writing. this initiative by the european commission is very welcome. this european fund for strategic investments is to finance large-scale projects with high risks that member states do not and will never undertake. at the same time, we must avoid competition between member states. the expertise is totally different, the ability to attract funds and to invest is different. supporting smes is very important, as they can bring great benefits to the eu if they can get off the ground and start the engine of the economy.
in writing. the european parliament and the council have demonstrated that it is possible to set up a european fund outside the union budget - in this case, for strategic investments - using the community method. this success confirms once again that, when there is political will, the european union is able to make progress towards common goals. in this respect, i hope that we can achieve faster the formation of a fiscal capacity at union level, so as to achieve a true economic and monetary union, in line with the principles set out in the recent report of the presidents of the european institutions.
in writing. in the current global economic situation, where the european union is competing with strong states and regional structures, we need to harmonise tax systems to ensure that we all benefit from a coherent and unified environment within the union, offering equal opportunities for development to all member states. solidarity, which must return to the centre of the european institutions' concerns, dictates a clear principle: fiscal fairness. corporations have to give back to the communities that make them exist. we therefore call for greater transparency of tax obligations for large companies. the fight against corporate tax evasion is a fight for our medium and long-term development. europeans deserve to be informed and to have a clear understanding of the profit margins of companies operating in europe. in this way, we can know very clearly what taxes are due in each member state and that those business entities pay taxes where they produce and make a profit. it is essential that there is a balance between member states as regards taxation of multinational companies. this balance is necessary to provide more resources for the sustainable development of the member states and the prosperity of european citizens.
madam president, europe is today in the midst of a crisis of legitimacy, because it is failing to protect its citizens and to ensure equal treatment for all, regardless of country or nationality. this is the situation of european citizens from my country, romania. romanians are underrepresented at the level of european institutions and, more specifically, romania, although the seventh largest state in the european union, ranks only 22nd in terms of representation in senior positions in the european institutions. romanians are also stigmatized by many politicians in europe lately. for example, in austria, the foreign minister decided to ask for a reduction in social rights for romanians living in that country. when, dear members of the european parliament, are we going to call an end to all these abuses? when will we realise that europe means freedoms and rights for all its citizens? if we talk today about the issue of the rights of european romanians, i assure you that if we do not act, we will be talking tomorrow about poles, greeks, spaniards, maybe even germans. we must build a european society for all, and romanians, like all europeans, are full eu members.
madam president, the question of the nationalization of property by the communist authorities in romania has been raised on several occasions, including in the form of a question to the commission. we pointed out that the restitution process in romania had stopped, and in fact, in the case of an important church property, the court decided in favor of re-nationalization, finding the officials guilty of performing their official duties. despite the unacceptable situation, the european institutions did not speak out, did not take account of the commitments made by a member state. on june 11, the united states congressional budget committee unanimously included in the budget of the state department in washington the issue of the return of church property in romania, requesting the treasury to report on this issue within 90 days. so it seems that the united states believes that it is important to uphold human rights and minority rights in an eu member state, while our own institutions are unable to formulate a coherent position and hold accountable commitments in relation to the relevant policy of a member state.
madam president, i believe that fundamental rights and freedoms in a democratic society must be a reality. the european union is considered a community of values based on human dignity, freedom, equality and solidarity. the free movement of workers is provided for in the treaty on european union and in regulation (eu) no 492/2011. however, some member states do not comply with this regulation. as a member of the european parliament, i argue that the european union's regulation needs to be respected and i call on the commission, the council and all european institutions to take the necessary measures to ensure that workers' rights are respected in all member states. i cannot stand by and watch discrimination by some states against citizens of my country and other countries and i demand that freedom of movement be respected. i do not think that some member states should just choose what suits them from a treaty, but they should respect all the regulations of the european institutions if they are members of the european union.
the statements of foreign minister sebastian kurz regarding the allowances granted to romanian children living legally in austria, namely the intention that their payment be made at the level of the amount in romania, demonstrate an unacceptable irresponsibility for a minister of a state that is part of the european union. i'd like to think that it was just a moment of deep intellectual silence from someone with no experience of public office. just as i don't want to believe that romanians are good for those in western europe just to build their houses, clean their garbage or protect their borders. child benefits are not only a right but also an obligation of the state in which their parents live and work legally, and they must be paid equally, regardless of race or nationality. i warn the austrian government, from the rostrum of the european parliament, that, the second after such a decision is taken, i will publicly demand that all companies with austrian capital operating in romania pay taxes and duties to the romanian state, as well as employees, at the level of the amount in austria.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report in accordance with the resolution and the analysis of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report in accordance with the resolution and the analysis of the report.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the recent economic and financial crisis, european actors are advocating increased investment in the eu to cover the investment gap generated. this lack of investment has created a downward spiral of reduced spending, rising unemployment and loss of confidence in future progress. the introduction of new incentives to increase investment, backed by guarantees, can increase the confidence of investors, public authorities and the industrial sector. by unlocking new investment, the efsi can become the cornerstone of an investment cycle that creates new jobs and opportunities. these new investments are not only necessary to revitalise the union economy but also to transform it into a sustainable, innovative and circular economy. it is also of particular importance that the efsi reinforces those policies and contributes to their delivery, by also focusing on the transformative investments needed for sustainable and low-carbon transport infrastructure, digital and research infrastructure, renewable energy creation, energy efficiency and energy storage, and the bringing to market of new innovative products, services and technologies.
in writing. ‒ after years of painful austerity and structural reforms, europe is still in a process of recovery, while growth remains sluggish. compared to pre-crisis years, we must realise that we find ourselves in an ʽinvestment holeʼ, as commission president juncker himself put it. investor sentiment remains rather low and our economy needs a rapidly deployable booster. hopefully this will be the role of the famous juncker plan, made fact in the european fund for strategic investments, for which i voted today. of course, parliament left its mark on the original plan. ultimately, this resulted in it having oversight over some of the fund’s governance aspects, project selection has become more transparent and eur 1 billion less will be taken from the eu’s flagship research and infrastructure programmes. all in all, i hope i will not regret having shared in the optimism of the fund’s supporters.
in writing. ‒ the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) was designed to boost the european union's long-term economic growth and competitiveness. i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european fund for strategic investments and amending regulations (eu) no 1291/2013 and (eu) no 1316/2013 because the final proposal incorporated several amendments that i had initiated to allow access to these funds for all states and beneficiaries.
in writing. ‒ given the s&d contribution to the final form of this programme, i reiterate that we will not agree to a reduction in research funding. horizon 2020 and the connecting europe facility now benefit from a budgetary solution to maintain financial strength and to continue the investments started. we must take into account that european research and innovation programmes must not be a source of emergency funding for other programmes and must remain functional, because they produce jobs and clear results in the economy. the political consensus on a programme that will give us a chance at sustainable development is used to draw attention to the fact that the application of the efsi must be fair to all member states, but especially to regions that have to overcome significant development gaps, both in terms of infrastructure and other socio-economic aspects. i think we must take every opportunity to ensure european solidarity, including economic solidarity. the efsi now represents a chance to develop the eu's border infrastructure, to reduce economic and social disparities in europe and to increase competitiveness in all european regions, including the least prosperous.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european fund for strategic investments (efsi). i welcome the perspective of the rapporteurs, who pointed out that the efsi should support projects that promote quality job creation, growth and competitiveness in the short, medium and long term, research, early education and training, infrastructure and transition and energy efficiency. the report adopted by the ep also underlines that investments supported by the efsi should contribute to the implementation of existing union programmes and policies and to the achievement of the europe 2020 strategy objectives for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. the efsi aims to mobilise at least eur 315 billion in private and public investment across the european union. the commission proposal also establishes a european investment advisory hub.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) provides support for people who lose their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation or the economic and financial crisis. as shadow rapporteur, i voted for this report to amend the regulation for a better implementation of egf projects.
in writing. ‒ globalisation is a complex phenomenon that can sometimes pose a number of problems even for the most developed countries in the world. the changes it implies in labour dynamics may come as a surprise to governments and international institutions. to this end, the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up, which can help some of those who have lost their jobs as a result of the changes brought about by globalisation to reintegrate into the labour market. the budgetary effort of the european union for this programme is not very large, but its effects can be considerable for the achievement of efficient employment of the available workforce. this programme contributes to social cohesion measures within the union, in particular the reintegration of young people, one of the most vulnerable groups, into the labour market. for these reasons, i consider the draft resolution on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to be a useful document for european citizens, which should be supported by the european parliament.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the creation of a technical assistance system within the commission for member states that intend to receive funds from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). the egf was established to provide additional support for workers whose jobs have been affected by the consequences of major structural changes in international trade practices. the commission proposal concerns the mobilisation of eur 630 000 from the egf reserve for technical assistance at the initiative of the commission. the objective of the technical assistance is to finance monitoring, information activities, to create a knowledge base interface and to provide advice to member states on the use, monitoring and evaluation of the egf. according to the report adopted in the ep, the commission will organise liaison activities between member states through two seminars dedicated to the egf implementing bodies in the member states, which will take place around the same dates and will focus on issues related to the practical implementation of the egf regulation at grassroots level.
in writing. ‒ more than seven years after the start of the crisis, the euro has been supported by measures such as the revision of the stability and growth pact (sgp), the budgetary pact, the creation of a european stability mechanism (esm), the establishment of the banking union and the establishment of the key role of the european central bank (ecb). however, the forecasts of a decrease in the unemployment rate and inflation were not met. in the light of the present situation, a controversy has arisen over the policies adopted in the wake of the crisis, given that the euro area has encountered difficulties vis-à-vis its counterparts. the new provisions have not been sufficient to counteract the cumulative effects at union level on the budgetary position of the member states and have therefore not resolved problems such as the deflationary threat, low economic growth or high unemployment. i voted in favour of the report because i want to see emu working better and a symmetrical approach to contributions to the co-financing of projects under the efsi.
in writing. ‒ since the financial crisis of 2007, the weaknesses of the economic governance framework established for the euro area in 1990 have become apparent, failing to take account of the complexity of the macroeconomic policy challenges for a monetary union. i voted in favour of this report on the evaluation of the economic governance framework for the implementation of new elements with a view to achieving closer coordination, economic convergence and the rationalisation of the european semester.
in writing. ‒ the european union is, from its very origins, a project designed to strengthen solidarity between european states and citizens. the first area where this has been true is the economic sector. today, the european union's economy is one of the best performing in the world, allowing a high standard of living for our citizens. however, the crisis has called into question the viability of our development model, particularly because of the problems faced by some member states. the response mechanisms created at eu level to address these issues suffer from an inherent lack of legitimacy, which can only be remedied through the involvement of the european parliament, the representative forum of european citizens. it is only in this forum that we can decide whether or not the rules by which the economic and monetary union operates can be changed, only here can we choose one model of development or another, a greater or lesser degree of convergence. in the current context, i believe that the solution is to increase european integration and solidarity by achieving a fiscal union, a banking union and the introduction of a european minimum wage. the continuation of the european project can only mean strengthening economic integration, to ensure the prosperity of all our citizens.
mr president, i think that this circus, this attempt to export the circus that the communists are making in greece, must be stopped here in the european parliament. i think we must get back to serious things and stop this attempt to do anything in this parliament. i am therefore against the debates proposed by these communists who have put greece in a terrible situation and who are going to make a mess here.
blue-card question. – mr woolfe, as you come from the uk, i would ask: do you know that the financial system in london city is also basing its activity on the european union capital markets? the european union capital markets union could greatly assist the london financial system to develop in the future. by taking the position you have taken, it seems that you are against jobs in london.
mr president, commissioner, i strongly support this report representing the european parliament’s input into the green book of the european commission. the capital markets union can play a full part in financing economic recovery in the european union through deepening and broadening european union capital markets together with bank finance. i welcome the incorporation into this report of our main priorities, which lie at the heart of all social democratic values: namely, capital markets to finance long-time investment, the real economy and, especially, small and medium-sized enterprises. i agree that it is important to develop european capital markets to diversify funding and improve access to financing, thereby restoring the stability of the banking sector. we succeeded in improving the text by defeating many amendments which aimed at turning the capital markets union into a deregulatory agenda for the financial markets. the text now clearly refers to the need for legislative action. in this sense, i am strongly in favour of a review of legislation in order to ensure the highest investor protection standards. i also agree with the need to address the taxation of capital markets, because it might represent an obstacle, despite the opportunities offered by a well-designed european union capitals market. i would like, finally – last but not least – to thank the rapporteur and shadow rapporteurs for this approach. (the speaker refused to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
mr president, many are asking us why the economy of the united states has recovered easier, faster and in a more convincing way from the previous economic and financial crisis than our european economy. the answer to this rests partly with a quick restructuring of its banking sector and with a reform of its financial system, which of course has consequences on the financing of the economy, on growth and, subsequently, on jobs. the capital markets union, commissioner, represents one of the lessons that europe has learned from the crisis, and by implementing it now it will ensure better financing for our economy and our smes. i would, therefore, like to particularly stress the importance of one element of the question put to you: sme-friendly economic and regulatory conditions. i think the commission should indeed focus on ensuring the successful and diversified access of smes to financing in the capital markets union. every detail from your side regarding this initiative will be very much welcomed. however, national particularities of the business sector and business models of the financial sectors in different european countries must also be considered when providing equal opportunities for financing. the banking sector should remain an important source of financing and funding for smes in europe. therefore, a genuine european approach should take into consideration the interconnected character of the banking and financial sectors in europe and should be a support to the internal market in europe, also with the aim of avoiding financial fragmentation, especially in times of crisis.
blue-card question. – ms kyllönen, yes, it seems that we are going to see heaven on earth with the circular economy. this might be true, but do you not think that, first of all, we need innovation? without innovation, this circular economy is not going to function. first of all, we need innovation and a high—efficiency circular economy. only societies that are going to base their economies on innovation are going to win in the future.
mr. president, in 1900, the population of the planet was no more than two billion. by 2050, it will exceed 9 billion. the current rate of resource consumption is unsustainable. this consumption generates not only a negative impact on the environment, but also other effects, including political tensions that are increasingly difficult to manage. we easily waste food, even though malnutrition and hunger are choking entire regions of the world. we make geopolitical trade-offs for expensive energy, but we ignore the opportunity to use more renewable energy. we have access to fruit grown thousands of miles away in stores, but we don't always find it easily on the same shelves as fruit produced by local farmers. all of these are forms of waste. the transition to more responsible consumption is absolutely essential. the principle of a circular economy with a greater focus on reuse and recycling is a good one. it would remove the pressure on finite resources and create opportunities and jobs in the recycling industry.
mr president, europe is making efforts to integrate ecological and social risks into financial legislation, in order to channel capital as appropriately as possible towards appropriate services in the fields of ecosystems and biodiversity. i believe that environmental degradation, excessive use of resources and lack of appropriate measures can lead to undesirable long-term effects. on the other hand, greater attention needs to be paid to the efficient use of resources in construction and buildings, given that at european level buildings account for 40% of the total energy consumption of the european union, which generates 36% of total carbon dioxide emissions. europe needs sustainable buildings, but to do so we need smart and sustainable land-use planning, complemented by good land-use planning and adequate transport solutions.
in writing. first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the excellent work he has done on this dossier. this legislative package can transform europe's economy into a sustainable system and can also create new jobs, especially for young people. in addition to the benefits of the circular economy, i believe that more attention needs to be paid to the regions and workforces negatively affected by this transition, such as the approximately 350 000 jobs in the mining industry in europe. i therefore ask the european commission to work with the social partners to create solidarity mechanisms such as financial compensation, retraining and retraining. i also believe that an effective and job-creating transition must be supported by education and vocational programmes and strategies for the development of specific skills and knowledge. i think it is very important to ensure that this transition also includes ensuring safe and healthy working conditions for employees. i hope that all colleagues in the european parliament will come together and, based on the studies and expert opinions, fight together for a european circular economy.
in writing. the circular economy is good for both the economy and the environment. the initiative to have the european parliament's position on the content of a future draft european legislation prepared by the european commission stated in parliament is therefore welcome. there are wide differences between the member states of the union in the state of progress towards achieving a circular economy, in particular in the recovery and re-use of technological and household waste. that is why i argue that future european regulation should contain clear standards and targets for each member state.
madam president, commissioner, i would like to stress once again that over time it has become increasingly clear that milk prices and farmers' incomes have not been supported and stabilised sufficiently effectively. i agree with the rapporteur that the implementation of the measures introduced by the milk package is uneven in the member states and i am very concerned for small producers. for example, the elimination of quotas in romania is estimated to lead to the imminent disappearance of some 800 000 small local producers. i believe that the european union's policy on the production of milk by small producers should be supported to prevent it from being abandoned, and i would therefore like to recall some of the threats facing the sector: the closure of the market with russia, the invasion of certain markets by cheaper products from certain eu countries, unfair competition and food fraud in the agri-food chain and the milk supply chain, large social disparities in rural areas, the lack of alternation in rural employment. the european commission needs to strengthen the stabilisation of the retail market to regulate the taking of profits by small producers and support the strengthening of small producers' associations, particularly in eastern europe. i hope, commissioner, that you're considering this.
madam president, the dairy sector is one of the most vulnerable sectors in agriculture. i congratulate commissioner phil hogan on his work but at the same time i think that there needs to be a more energetic concern on the part of the commission so that the most effective means of protecting this sector are identified. the disappearance of milk quotas seriously and unacceptably exacerbates the imbalances between large farmers and small farmers, so that the existence of the latter is seriously endangered. the embargo imposed by russia on dairy products and beyond is likely to cause market shifts, generating imbalances even in countries that have not had direct trade relations with them. in some countries, such as romania, milk prices have reached 10 euro cents per litre, well below cost, and small farmers are on the verge of imminent bankruptcy. in view of the volatility of prices, the commission must immediately include in its work programme measures to strengthen and protect this sector at european level, and finding new markets such as the one offered by ttip, as well as developing existing ones, must be a major concern. mechanisms, including fiscal facilities, should also be put in place to encourage the establishment of producer associations and organisations capable of processing milk into finished products and further developing their own distribution chains to manage them. only then can we talk about security in the milk sector.
madam president, dairy farmers continue to be hard hit by the combination of the ending of the milk quota regime and the effects of the russian embargo. i congratulate my colleagues from the s&d group who put emphasis on the situation of the primary producers and particularly those operating on a smaller scale on family farms or from more remote areas. the risks of further concentration of milk production in more competitive areas is still a lurking threat for such farms, and the report now contains a set of proposals and demands which could form a minimum set of safeguards. i am confident that the s&d group agriculture committee members will remain in close contact, and if the situation deteriorates we will ring the alarm bells again in the future to ensure primary dairy production is safeguarded. finally, i believe it is important to strengthen the milk market observatory to give producers more timely access to accurate market information.
in writing. the current context on the milk market after the expiry of quotas requires special attention to be paid to milk producers, who are faced with a new reality. price volatility is an essential aspect to be taken into account in the light of experience to date and the increasing competition on the milk market. manufacturers should be able to foresee price margins in order to develop a market strategy adapted to the real market requirements. i consider that a review of the reference price for products subject to intervention is necessary in order to make the measures adopted so far by the commission more effective and attractive. i think the milk market observatory could be improved by equipping it with a set of indicators for better monitoring of the market. these indicators should provide information on price margins and include both the member state and regional dimension without increasing the administrative burden. however, this transparency should protect the interests of the various entities in the milk supply chain.
madam president, on 7 august 2015 it will be one year since russia imposed a ban on food imports from the countries of the european union. according to the analyses of financial institutions, at the end of the first year of the ban, the european union loses eur 6.7 billion and about 130 000 jobs. in this economic war, romania is hit twice. if the first effect was the loss of export contracts with russia in the milk processing industry, where production fell by a quarter compared to the pre-ban period, and the pork industry had to reduce prices by 25%, accumulating huge losses, romanian producers also had to cope with the influx of goods coming to the romanian market from european union countries, which were also subject to the same bans. in the context of a foreseeable decision by moscow to extend the embargo by at least one year, the european union must find a formula for supporting romanian producers as soon as possible. in the absence of this support, the forecasts are downright alarming and go as far as the total bankruptcy of the two romanian production sectors, with disastrous consequences for the fragile balance of the labour market, but also for the budget of romania. it's time for romanian producers to... (the president interrupts the speaker)
madam president, today the european commission published a study on the recruitment and retention policies of medical staff in europe. the current migration of health workers from central, eastern and, more recently, southern european countries to countries such as france, italy, germany or the nordic countries, due firstly to financial reasons, then to better working conditions and access to state-of-the-art medical equipment and technologies, raises the awareness of health systems in these countries of origin and, by default, represents a risk factor for patient safety. health labour migration creates a shortage of health personnel and, together with unequal access to innovative treatments, financial barriers that block the effective application of the right to cross-border health, outlines the european union of health inequalities. i believe it is time to put migration and the shortage of medical staff on the european agenda. we need policies for retaining medical staff within the union and a balance of migration within the member states.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is very clear that the choice of the greek people in sunday's referendum is for a stronger european future. in my view, our task is to highlight the fact that the negotiations must continue in the spirit of solidarity. if we say 'no' to austerity, we are logically saying 'yes' to solidarity. however, economic prosperity and regional security are closely linked to predictability and stability in greece, and these days are very important. given that the largest contribution to greece's gdp comes from tourism, solutions to restore confidence in the area must not be delayed, because there is a direct proportional relationship between the feeling of security and economic prosperity, especially when it comes to tourism. many tourists who are preparing to go to greece have questions. is greece still a safe zone? are the tourist services still operating under the conditions of bank closure? is public transportation, health care, or police still functioning? the greek and european authorities must respond swiftly to these legitimate questions, and my appeal to mr junker, mr tusk and mr schulz, as well as to the greek government, is for dialogue, solidarity and restraint.
madam president, public-private partnerships in third countries will have many positive effects on job creation, competitiveness and productivity in europe. i strongly believe that the european union trade policy should work towards ensuring market access for eu companies abroad, where they still face substantial barriers in procurement markets. small and medium-sized enterprises should easily be able to access these standards and make a number of recommendations in this regard, including the formation of consortiums. the legal framework for public partnership programs should be reinforced, with a view to establishing a clear, predictable and legitimate institutional framework supported by competent and well-resourced authorities. adequate human resources should be ensured to enable the administration to properly design ppps and oversee their implementation. efforts should also be made to raise the capacity of public administration in developing countries.
madam president, to strengthen the position of producer organisations (pos) in the supply chain by creating incentives for mergers, associations and transnational cooperation is a very important action that we must support. producer organisations have become essential for european cultural policy and should be encouraged to develop at all levels, especially in member states where the number of organisations is still low. i believe that pos could be effective tools to combat unfair trading practices in the food chain, ensuring better remuneration for growers. the fruit and vegetable sector has been severely hit by the russian ban on eu exports, and this will continue next year, as russia will extend the ban to 2016. i believe that the eu should continue all the support measures for this sector until the normal market situation is fully re-established, but the european union should also continue to impose sanctions against russia.
member of the commission.– madam president, i wish to thank mr melo for his report. it certainly offers me an opportunity to briefly address some of the issues that have been raised in relation to fruit and vegetables here. the russian import ban has been mentioned by a number of speakers in respect of european fruit and vegetables. it once again highlights the vulnerability of the sector, where surpluses of perishable products can cause large market disturbances and falling producer prices. i am examining this issue at the moment to see what can be done to assist producers. it also shows the importance of strong producer organisations to collectively deal with such unexpected and adverse situations. the current cmo regulation offers the tools for strengthening their bargaining position vis-à-vis major retailers, as well as through production planning, innovation, and crisis prevention and management measures. therefore i welcome mr melo’s report as a contribution to the debate on how producer organisations can be strengthened even further to become even more efficient and also more attractive to both current and future members. the eu fruit and vegetable regime is certainly on the commission’s political agenda. president juncker has asked me to focus on reviewing this potential for further simplification within the first 12 months of our mandate. this meets one of the main requests of this report, which is to increase the attractiveness of producer organisations by increasing legal certainty and reducing the administrative burden. throughout this year the commission will carry out a simplification exercise regarding the fruit and vegetable rules that are contained in the commission-level legislation. this will improve the functioning of the scheme and provide a clearer legal framework. however, we foresee no changes to the basic act this year. producer organisations and their operational programmes thus remain a cornerstone of the regime. the issue of an increase in the overall level of support to producer organisations and to apos, which requires a change in the basic act, will not be addressed as part of this simplification exercise, where we are concentrating on secondary legislation. unfair trading practices in the food supply chain are also on our agenda, as you know. for abuses of relative bargaining power, or unfair trading practices as they are known, there is currently no regulatory framework at eu level, but a large number of member states have now begun to regulate the issue at national level, particularly in the united kingdom and spain. i will continue to work with ms bieńkowska, who is the commissioner for the internal market, industry, entrepreneurship and smes and the lead commissioner on this issue, in order to address issues that have been brought to the attention of this house tonight, and on other occasions, relating to unfair trading practices. the commission has asked the food chain to agree on a self-regulatory mechanism at eu level for the moment. all food chain representatives agreed on a list of principles of good practice in contractual relations as far back as 2011. furthermore, key stakeholders have been implementing an eu-wide voluntary scheme, the supply chain initiative, since the end of 2013, but regrettably not all actors in the food chain are participating at the moment. the commission will make an assessment of existing national and eu work streams and unfair practices at the end of this year and come to conclusions about where to go from there. let me welcome again the european parliament’s initiative and mr melo’s report, which will of course further enrich the ongoing debate regarding the reform that is required in the fruit and vegetables regime.
in writing. i strongly support the report on the request to the commission for more support for the organisation of the fruit and vegetables sector in producer organisations. we are all aware that in some countries, particularly in eastern europe, the average degree of organisation among producers is below the european average, which causes significant regional imbalances. if the commission does not take appropriate action and does not take into account the rules which are sometimes too complex for some countries which are only at the beginning of the organisational phase in the op, this imbalance situation could negatively affect all european producers which are already facing problems due to the russian embargo. the commission should therefore further encourage and support the association of producers in eastern european countries by a major simplification of the rules for establishing an op.
madam president, it is very important that we call on member states to share timetables and fare information and develop intermodal ticketing services. service providers should build on existing synergies and cooperate more closely on providing multimodal, cross-border journey planners. the commission should support and facilitate the efforts being made to develop international ticketing, and if no significant progress is made to develop intermodal ticketing by 2020, we will call for legislative action. updated national timetable and fare information systems should be based on open interfaces linking regional and local urban public transport data, linked by 2024 on a cross-border basis and made accessible to operators, providers of journey planners and consumers.
in writing. european transport policy faces a number of challenges, which call for a rethinking of how we ensure the mobility of european citizens. progress towards the targets set in the 2011 transport white paper is extremely slow. the draft report on integrated multimodal ticketing brings us closer to achieving one of the white paper's objectives, namely to facilitate seamless 'door-to-door' multimodal travel. by providing a multimodal travel planning and ticketing service, we are adequately addressing the challenges of decarbonising transport, digitalising and empowering those industries that depend on an efficient transport system, such as tourism. the integration of modes of transport in a digital platform, which can provide real-time information to users, will facilitate the transfer of traffic to public transport and vehicle sharing. the commission notes that the airport services agreement with ryanair was signed on the same day as the airport services agreement with ryanair. the future-oriented european transport system is one that provides the passenger with an integrated mobility experience and service without physical or digital barriers.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. mr president, madam prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to say at the end of this debate that those who, without reason, insult the latvian presidency are wrong. the latvian presidency has done a great job, and i am writing in false against these stupid, unfounded and unjustified attacks. this is a country that... (applause) let us now return to the subject of our discussion today, namely greece. i would like to reiterate the commission's willingness to do everything possible to reach an agreement. let us not forget that the euro zone is not made up of one democracy but of nineteen, and that the interests of the whole zone must also be safeguarded and the wishes of the other eighteen democracies respected. one democracy is not better than another. a citizen is a citizen. (applause) finally, stop this chatter about me sometimes looking at my phone. i'm texting, as they say in french, with the greek prime minister. i don't know if you have the opportunity to do the same, but i have to do this today. i'm just doing my job. then stop this stupid chatter that has no reason to exist. moreover, to give the impression that the commission and europe are sitting in our golden halls, that we are not looking closely at the living conditions of our citizens, is absurd, is elementary populism, is unhealthy demagogy. i speak every week with greek citizens. i am not only speaking to the greek government and the greek political parties, i am speaking to greek citizens and i am one of those who have been most concerned about the living and working conditions of the greek citizens. so we should not give the impression that we are far from these citizens or those of other countries. in dealing with the daily reality of greek citizens very closely, i do not forget the daily reality of many others. there's unemployment all over europe. there is poverty all over europe. there are minimum social wages below the greek minimum social wage. there are living standards below the greek standard of living and many other member states are also above the poverty thresholds. we must therefore see the whole picture and not indulge in a few fanciful remarks. do not fall into this kind of populism and demagogy. let us do everything we can to help the citizens of greece, many of whom live in poverty, but let us not forget the others. we are here to serve both greece and europe. let us not forget greece, but let us not forget the rest of europe. (applause) i would like to thank
the president-in-office of the council. - mr president! ladies and gentlemen of the house of commons! i had the pleasure of discussing our contribution to the presidency here. at the same time, i am very much aware that the main issue today is greece, and greece has taken over all of our minds, and it is undeniable that the situation in greece has affected the european agenda. as the presidency, we have supported the targeted efforts to achieve a positive outcome in the euro area-greece talks. the eurozone finance ministers are meeting shortly today. i too will be travelling directly from the european parliament to brussels to attend the extraordinary eurosummit and, as jean claude said, we will all be looking forward to greece's proposals and vision for the common long-term future of greece and the european union. the main thing in reviewing latvia's path through the crisis is the collective will of each country and its people to put their country in order. and time, i repeat again, and time! every moment of uncertainty brings additional loss. and so i very much hope that the new greek finance minister and the greek prime minister will bring us some really constructive proposals. and finally, i would like to thank the european parliament and the european commission once again. together we have succeeded in finding solutions to key issues on the agenda of the european union. and i really hope that during this six-month period europe will get to know latvia, our small northern country, our traditions and culture, our ability to work and our tenacity. thank you again and see you next time!
in writing.– i would like to congratulate the latvian presidency for reaching the agreement with the ep on the european fund for strategic investments (efsi), enabling new investments to begin already this summer, and helping to boost economic growth. i am pleased, together with my colleagues that it managed to reach a general approach on the data protection regulation, as well as provisional agreement with the parliament on abolishing roaming and open internet access. moreover, it also managed to agree with the parliament on the main principles for the directive on network and information security (nis). finally, i believe that a key highlight of latvia’s presidency, in view of the country’s position, was the eastern partnership summit in may, where the eu met with its eastern counterparts. latvia can be proud of the way it has handled its work and the progress it has made on many fronts.
madam president, our objective is to achieve the best possible agreement, not an ideal agreement, because the ideal agreements exist only in tommaso campanella or thomas morus, utopia; a possible agreement, which will benefit all citizens of the european union, which will guarantee equal rights for national and foreign investors and an agreement which will be subject to high social, environmental and health standards, as well as transparency. the resolution to be voted on is very important because it defines the basic lines that the commission must follow in the negotiations, key points to which the socialist group is deeply committed and without which it will be very difficult for it to vote on this agreement. but i also invite you all today to distinguish between truth and facts on the one hand, and propaganda and manipulation on the other. the resolution calls for high social and environmental standards to be respected, and for public services to be explicitly excluded from the content of this agreement. the aim of our text is to ensure the competitiveness of european enterprises, be they multinational or small and medium-sized, and to encourage foreign investment, which is so lacking in the union. it is absolutely essential that we ask the commission to propose a permanent investor-state dispute settlement mechanism to replace the private arbitration services currently available - the old asds system. a mechanism that is subject to democratic principles, democratic control with independent judges in public trials and also allows for appeal. it's exactly the compromise that my colleague, bernd lange, will propose. ttip can and should be a new generation of trade agreement between two states, two global players with integrated economies that can ensure a common set of high standards for future trade agreements. if we don't create those standards, others will. and please, take a moment to look at the transpacific partnership, the schengen initiative, look at the asian infrastructure and investment bank, to understand that europe cannot afford the isolation that those who vehemently oppose this agreement propose. and i say this: ttip can be a response to today's security challenges by introducing an energy chapter for mutual benefit. and to colleagues who say 'china opposes ttip', i say that's false! maybe you haven't talked to the chinese officials! china encourages ttip, as it encourages a bilateral investment agreement, as a first stage for a future trade and investment agreement between the two parties.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would have liked to see more reason in today's discussions and less passion and cheap politics. i think that anyone who does not want a trade agreement between two large markets does not want the good of the citizens. no businessman would ignore a trade agreement! any trade and investment agreement must be negotiated and not rejected! we are actually giving the commission and the commissioner a mandate to negotiate today and not voting for an agreement! here is the poisoning and manipulation in many member states! the petitioners don't know what we're voting on today! we have a duty, during the negotiations, to go back to our countries and explain to the citizens what we want with this agreement. in my country we had a public debate with a secret ballot. commissioner, the romanian people want this agreement, but they want you to negotiate it transparently, to ensure product standards are harmonised, to ensure market access for smes and, of course, without private litigation. that is why i think we should now stand together as the european parliament and give the commissioner and the commission a fair mandate for negotiation. and i also want to ask you, as a romanian, commissioner, that the romanians also benefit from the visa waiver for the united states.
madam president, considering the latest developments in negotiations for the ttip, i would like to express my pleasure that the report contains important demands, namely strong protection of labour rights and ratification of the international labour organisation conventions, high environmental standards, protection of public services and also protection of our food and health safety standards. i consider that this is a unique opportunity for the european parliament to have a strong position in the negotiations between the european union and the united states by setting up important standards on international trade. i congratulate the rapporteur on the compromise negotiated to oblige the commission to exclude isds from the trade agreement, and i support the compromise amendment which replaces the isds with a new public, democratic and transparent system that functions on an appellate mechanism where private interests cannot undermine public policy objectives. ttip is a huge opportunity, a necessity.
in writing. the european commission has been negotiating with the us since july 2013 this partnership which could create the largest free trade area in the world. previous eu-us trade agreements have delivered significant benefits to the european economy, trade and investment, generating new jobs and growth. but now we're talking about a partnership that could create the largest free trade area in the world. the report follows up on resolutions adopted in the previous legislature in october 2012 and may 2013 on trade and investment negotiations with the united states. despite the many critical voices in the european public regarding the agreement under negotiation, i have chosen to support this report, which calls for more transparency from the commission on the negotiations, an agreement that respects european values, stimulates sustainable growth and contributes to the well-being of all citizens, improving the isds (investor-state dispute settlement) mechanism and also emphasising the geopolitical importance of concluding such a partnership. the partnership should take into account both economic challenges and interests and citizens' concerns.
in writing. beyond addressing the multiple crises it faces, the eu has a medium-term interest in strengthening sustainable economic growth and creating new jobs, especially for young people. the eu is constantly interested in promoting its core values. to achieve these goals, we need allies. beyond the multiple divergences and beyond the obvious fact that the united states is also a competitor of the eu, reality shows us that it is also europe's natural ally in global competition. in the highly tense and complicated international context, emerging asian economies are overvalued. analysts appreciate their spectacular economic growth, but is it sustainable? partnership with these economies is important for europe. but do we share the same values? i believe that ttip is a necessary tool for a europe that plans for its future. i think that the analysts on the other side of the atlantic who advise us on a daily basis -- now, for example, making the case for brexit -- represent american interests that are not necessarily in harmony with our own goals, but i also think that the differences between us are less important than anything that binds us together. the outcome of the ttip negotiations must take account of the ep's opinion, because only then will the treaty be ratified.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the council’s nomination of bettina michelle jakobsen as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. – i have voted for the nomination of bettina michelle jakobsen as member of the court of auditors based on the evaluation made by the rapporteur that considers her best suited for this position.
in writing. ‒ auditing is an essential activity for the financial health of our societies today. at the european union level, where there are a multitude of financial programmes, auditing is of paramount importance to avoid any fraud or corruption that may occur. the members of the court of auditors of the european union must therefore have extensive experience in this field, which will enable them to exercise the strictest possible control over the sound management of european money. ms bettina michelle jakobsen has this experience both nationally and internationally. his work in the nato court of auditors is a testament to his professionalism and competence in the field. ms jakobsen is also an independent and credible expert who has managed budgets at the level of a complex organisation. during the hearings, ms jakobsen proved by her answers that she was the right person for this position, giving due importance to the relationship with the european parliament. last but not least, we need a woman on the court of auditors to balance the gender balance in this male-dominated field. for these reasons, i support the appointment of ms jakobsen as a member of the european court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal to amend the regulation of the european parliament and of the council adopting union procedures in the field of the common commercial policy with a view to ensuring the exercise by the union of the rights conferred on it by the rules of international trade, in particular those established under the auspices of the world trade organisation (wto), as it is intended to codify this regulation exclusively. the world trade organisation (wto) is an international organisation that oversees a large number of agreements defining the 'rules of trade' between member states. the wto is the successor to the general agreement on tariffs and trade and works towards reducing and eliminating barriers to international trade. given that the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission considers that the proposal in question is limited to a simple codification of existing texts without substantive changes to them, i consider that this report should be supported, in order to make the process of unification and standardisation work better.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the proposal since the proposal in question contains a straightforward codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. – i voted for this commission proposal that complies with the recommendations of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission.
in writing. ‒ the institutional set-up of the european communities has, since their foundation, been a form of support for free trade between member states. on the basis of this principle, the european union has made a key contribution to the creation of the world trade organisation, the forum for regulating trade relations based on free trade worldwide. however, there are also a number of obstacles in this area, raised by certain third countries, which affect the commercial interests of the european union. in order to overcome these obstacles, the european council adopted regulation (ec) no 3286/94 to give european producers and member states the right to challenge unfair practices in free trade. the regulation respects the practices for the settlement of trade disputes established under the wto. however, this document has become insufficient in the current context of the eu's institutional development. this resolution, which codifies the council regulation in an updated form, thus giving it new legitimacy before the union's trading partners and, more generally, before the wto members, should therefore be adopted.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal as it contains a straightforward codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. – i have voted for the commission’s recommendations of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it supports the work of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, which has recodified the provisions on protection against injurious pricing in shipbuilding. this recoding of provisions is a normal procedural step, but it is very important when we are talking about documents that have been adopted and amended many times over time. this procedure brings clarity and transparency to the legislation and helps european citizens to better understand the measures in force. this principle of clarity and transparency in legislation is very important in law and in a democratic society, and that is why i voted for this report.
in writing. ‒ the european union is one of the world's leading shipbuilding producers. in the current competitive world market in this field, there is a need for the european institutions to protect the pursuit of this activity within the union. unfortunately, the existing rules of the world trade organisation, inherited from the defunct gatt, do not ensure that manufacturers are adequately compensated for the damage caused by dumping from a number of countries or even member states. council regulation (ec) no 385/96 fills this legislative gap at global and european level by regulating the pricing practices of ships, at least at european union level. in the event of injury to european shipbuilding producers, it shall be covered by the imposition of duties, countermeasures and equivalent measures on manufacturers who do not comply with the relevant rules. this is a well-deserved protection for the shipbuilding industry against unfair competition practices. however, the council regulation needs to be codified in line with the new legislative requirements of the european institutions, in particular the european parliament. i believe that the adoption of this report will strengthen european regulations in this area and safeguard the european union's much-needed shipbuilding industry.
in writing. ‒ the processing industry based in french guiana depends in part on the exploitation of living natural resources in its exclusive economic zone (eez) by venezuelan vessels. given the economic and social importance of this activity in the region, fishing has been authorised for these vessels for decades, with the proviso that part of the catch is landed in local ports. the landing and processing of fishery products therefore represent an important source of income and jobs for french guiana. i voted in favour of the commission proposal for an eu commitment on the transfer of fishing rights to venezuelan vessels.
victor negrescu (s&d),in writing. – i have voted for this declaration granting fishing opportunities in eu waters to fishing vessels flying the flag of the bolivarian republic of venezuela in the exclusive economic zone off the coast of french guiana according to the evaluation made in the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it concerns a fisheries agreement between the eu and venezuela, entering the register of new types of international agreements based on the common fisheries policy. unfortunately, this agreement was blocked for a period of three years due to institutional disagreements between the european parliament and the council on the law applicable to these agreements. however, once the procedures have been clarified by the court of justice of the european union, i do not consider that this agreement harms the interests of european citizens in french guiana, but helps the local economy, while respecting eu law and its objectives.
in writing. ‒ economic activities carried out within the european union are designed to generate prosperity for european citizens. within the eu, the maritime space bounded by the exclusive economic zone plays a special role. the fisheries in the area generate much-needed sea-side development. french guiana is an integral part of the eu, as an overseas department of the french republic. the fact that this region does not have the capacity to exploit its own fisheries resources makes the activity of venezuelan fishing vessels decisive for generating economic profit in the area. following the decision of the european court of justice of 26 november 2014, access for venezuelan fishing vessels to the exclusive economic zone of french guiana and fishing quotas have been regulated in accordance with the provisions of international law. however, this decision also strengthened the european parliament's decision-making power in the fisheries sector, representing a clear step forward and a success for parliament at institutional level. for these reasons, i support the adoption of this recommendation, which is intended to bring economic benefits and create jobs in a region that is an integral part of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i approved the council position on draft amending budget no 3/2015.
victor negrescu (s&d),in writing. – i have voted for the draft amending budget no 3/2015 to enter in the 2015 budget the surplus from the 2014 financial year, amounting to eur 1 435 million.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 3 of 2015 (dab 3/2015) covers a surplus of eur 1 435 million in budget year 2014. the surplus results from interest on late payments and fines (eur 634 million) a positive outturn on own resources (eur 479 million), under spending in expenditure of eur 142 million and exchange rate differences amounting to eur 110 million. the adoption of dab 3/2015 will accordingly reduce the contribution of member states to the financing of the 2015 eu budget. nonetheless, i would like to point out that the extra funds from dab 3/2015 could have been used for increasing the resources for other programmes, particularly the eu’s solidarity fund (eusf), which was created to assist member states that need the mobilisation of additional funds. although this was not done, i welcome the link established between dab 3/2015 and dab 4/2015, which is asking to mobilize eur 66.5 million to romania, bulgaria and italy, which were hit by floods in 2014. adopting these two dossiers together guarantees a common calendar and fast deployment of needed funds to these countries. this is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted on the report on the council position on the draft amending budget of the eu for the financial year 2015 which aims to enter in the 2015 budget the surplus of the financial year 2014, which amounts to eur 1 435 million. the rapporteur regretted that there was a tendency within the council to not honour its commitments to countries in difficulty that had fulfilled the conditions for the mobilisation of the eusf, while appreciating that in draft amending budget no 4/2015, the council did not follow this approach. i welcome the fact that the report recalls that the commission presented, in addition to this draft amending budget, another draft amending budget, no 4/2015, relating to the mobilisation from the eusf of a total amount of eur 66,5 million for romania, bulgaria and italy. the adoption of this draft amending budget will reduce by eur 1 435 million the level of the member states' contributions to the union budget, which are based on gni, and will therefore more than compensate for their contribution to the financing of draft amending budget no 4/2015.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the council position on draft amending budget no 4/2015 of the european union for the financial year 2015 accompanying the proposal to mobilise the european union solidarity fund for romania, bulgaria and italy, as it underlines the urgent need to provide financial assistance through the eusf to countries affected by natural disasters, taking into account that the eusf is a proof of solidarity with the population of regions affected by disasters. the draft amending budget concerns the mobilisation from the european union solidarity fund (eusf) of eur 66 505 850 in commitment and payment appropriations in respect of two floods in romania in spring and summer 2014, the total value of aid applications amounting to eur 8 495 950, the floods in bulgaria in july-august 2014, the total value of aid applications amounting to eur 1 983 600, and the floods in italy in october-november 2014, the total value of aid applications amounting to eur 56 026 300.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the recent floods in romania (spring and summer 2014), bulgaria (summer 2014) and italy (autumn 2014), the commission proposed to mobilise the solidarity fund for these four countries. the report proposes to apply a percentage of 2,5% of total direct losses in all four cases, as none of these countries exceeded the thresholds for major natural disasters. i support the proposal because in the case of regional natural disasters and disasters accepted under the 'neighbouring eligible state' principle, member states must receive aid.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund aims to ensure a rapid, efficient and flexible union response to emergencies in the member states, such as natural disasters floods, earthquakes, etc. through this fund, the eu wants to show solidarity with the people of regions hit by disasters. the eusf provides financial assistance to countries affected by such natural disasters and considers that the eu response must be swift precisely to enable the affected population and the public administration in the member states to carry out the necessary work for the return to normal.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 4/2015 relates to the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund (eusf) for an amount of eur 66 505 850 in commitment and payment appropriations in relation to two floods in romania in spring and summer 2014, in respect of which applications for aid total eur 8 495 950, floods in bulgaria in july/august 2014, in respect of which applications for aid total eur 1 983 600, and floods in italy in october/november 2014, in respect of which applications for aid total eur 56 026 300. i supported the urgent need to release financial assistance through the eusf to the countries affected by these natural disasters, taking into consideration that the eusf shows solidarity with the population in the region hit by disasters.
victor negrescu (s&d),in writing. – i have voted for the draft amending budget no 4/2015 that relates to the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund (eusf) in commitment and payment appropriations relating amongst others for two floods in romania.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 4 of 2015 (dab 4/2015) relates to the mobilisation of the eu’s solidarity fund (eusf) for romania, bulgaria and italy for a total amount of eur 66.5 million in commitment and payment appropriations. the eusf provides relief to countries affected by natural disasters and shows solidarity with the population in regions hit by disasters. given the surplus in the eu budget, as presented in draft amending budget no 3/2015, seven eusf cases could have easily been paid for from the 2014 budget. that is particularly important, as the eusf aims to enable a rapid, efficient and flexible response to emergency situations. however, during the budgetary negotiations for 2015, the council insisted on shifting the payments related to the mobilisation of the eusf in draft amending budgets no 5/2014 and no 7/2014 to the 2015 budget for a total amount of eur 126.7 million. while this approach has created a delay in the transfer of the funds, i welcome the link established between dab 3/2015 and dab 4/2015, since it will ensure the common adoption of these two dossiers and the mobilisation of the necessary resources to these countries. for this reason i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposed to apply a percentage of 2,5% of the total direct damage in all four cases, as none of them exceeded the respective thresholds for major natural disasters. this is in line with previous practice for regional natural disasters and disasters accepted under the 'neighbouring eligible state' principle. the first mobilisation decision in 2015 was to amend the 2015 budget by increasing the budget under article 13 06 01 (european union solidarity fund member states) by eur 66 505 850 in both commitment and payment appropriations to be entered in the budget outside the mff ceilings. i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund, as these floods have caused direct damage to public and private infrastructure, housing and agriculture and financial assistance from the eusf is vital in view of the major natural disasters that have occurred throughout 2014.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund in the context of the floods in romania (spring and summer 2014), bulgaria (summer 2014) and italy (autumn 2014) under point 11 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013.
in writing. – i have voted for the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund that takes into consideration two applications made by romania concerning the floods that took place in romania.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report and i welcome the votes of the other colleagues who have done so as well. it is very important that the people of the eu, in their time of need and especially when it comes to natural disasters such as floods, see that the union is active in helping them. the eu solidarity fund was created just for such occurrences, and natural disasters in one state are now damaging the economies of all their neighbours, so it is good the eu was and will be able to help these countries.
in writing. ‒ i welcome and welcome the mobilisation of this aid for the victims of the 3 countries. the eu must remain in solidarity and come to the aid of member states when they suffer from natural disasters.
in writing. ‒ the current report concerns the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund (eusf) for a total amount of eur 66.5 million eur in commitment and payment appropriations in response to four cases of flooding in romania (two cases), bulgaria and italy in the course of 2014. in all four cases there has been considerable damage to public and private infrastructure, businesses, private homes and assets, the agricultural sector and the environment. the damage led the commission to propose applying the rate of 2.5% of total direct damage in all four cases. given the fact that the eusf aims to provide a rapid, efficient and flexible response to emergency situations, i welcome the recommendation in the report to approve the commission proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the fund to these countries. taking into account that almost one year has passed since these regions were hit by the floods, it is vital to transfer these funds without further delay. i voted in favour of this report and i hope its adoption will provide the necessary relief to the citizens living in these areas who were affected by the floods.
in writing. i welcome the adoption today in plenary in strasbourg of the report on the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund to support romania, bulgaria and italy following the 2014 floods. i voted for this report which allocates a total of eur 66 505 850 to the three member states. romania will be allocated eur 8,5 million. part of this money will cover the costs of emergency operations, and part is allocated to support the reconstruction of road or energy infrastructure affected by floods, as well as to strengthen prevention.
in writing. ‒ european transport policy is facing many challenges. in addition to questions related to sustainability, economic viability, energy efficiency and environmental sustainability, questions arise about how to respond to traffic congestion, traffic jams and other traffic problems. providing multimodal information, travel planning and ticketing services throughout the eu is an important part of the answer to all these questions. i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on integrated multimodal ticketing in europe because the provision of multimodal information, travel planning and ticketing services at eu level offers opportunities for innovation to european businesses, in particular smes and start-ups, and therefore represents a major contribution to the achievement of a globally competitive european single market and the completion of the single european transport area.
in writing. ‒ support efforts to establish a fair and comprehensive system of travel information and planning so that travellers can access that information on the websites of the services concerned. however, i believe that certain regions or countries are not adequately covered on the existing portals in terms of the options for the different modes and possibilities of transport, which makes cross-border travel more difficult. the information available should enable eu citizens to choose the most sustainable, cheap and fast connection without harming the commercial interests of operators and supports the rapporteur's position that it is the commission's task to identify the appropriate means to this end and to ensure that such access to information does not lead to a dominant position of a provider and therefore to the emergence of a monopoly which would significantly undermine the competitiveness of other market players.
in writing. ‒ there is still a long way to go before a europe-wide, interoperable, compatible and continuous real-time traffic information service is a reality but the evolution of the internet and smartphones make such a service both possible and very necessary. therefore i welcome the commission’s establishment, by way of a delegated act, of specifications for ensuring eu-wide accessibility and the exchange and further development of real-time traffic information services. this is a sound step in the right direction but further steps must be taken so as to enable people making a journey in europe to identify the most sustainable, fastest or best-value multimodal door-to-door travel option, to book and pay for it and then to be informed, both before setting off and during their journey, about any disruption to it and, where applicable, to receive suggestions for alternative routes.
in writing. ‒ this report calls on member states to share timetables and information and develop intermodal ticketing services. moreover, service providers should cooperate more closely on providing multimodal journey planners. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. – i have vote this report that will bring multimodal integrated ticketing in europe using intelligent systems for interoperable and multimodal scheduling, online reservation systems and smart ticketing.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because i want to help make life easier for young people who want to travel within the eu. the report also supports business travellers who often have difficulties in booking and paying their travel tickets. i believe we have taken another step towards a more coherent and better integrated european union.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the report on the issue of multimodal integrated tickets in europe, through its modernising contribution, will stimulate the mobility of european citizens. the introduction of an integrated system of travel planning and ticketing services is a response to the challenges facing the european transport sector, ensuring sustainability and improving the safety and security of means of transport. the creation of an integrated ticket, which can be used regardless of the number of modes of transport used during a journey, can make european destinations more accessible and can significantly contribute to the development of continental tourism. i believe that the provision of multimodal information, travel planning and ticketing services throughout the eu facilitates mobility across the european union, a basic condition for the exercise of fundamental freedoms, and contributes to a greater use of public transport, with the car being the means of transport chosen by 72,2% of travellers in 2012. these services can lead to the creation of a single european transport area. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the extension of the term of office of the special committee on tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect.
victor negrescu (s&d),in writing. – i have voted for the extension of the term of office of the special committee on tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect, according to the report.
in writing. ‒ europe is and must remain a leading player on the international market in promoting sustainable innovation and skills and creating new local jobs, which is why i welcome the commission's proposal for a european fund for strategic investments (efsi), which can help, by supporting strategic investments, to boost the european union's competitiveness and achieve the objective of smart, sustainable and inclusive economic growth.
in writing. ‒ one of the roles of the union budget is to create added value by pooling resources and ensuring a high degree of synergy between the european structural and investment funds and efsi while enhancing the multiplying effect of union contributions. i therefore support the mobilisation of additional sources of private and public finance to fund investment on goals of a european dimension, in particular by addressing cross-border challenges in areas such as energy, environment and transport infrastructure.
in writing. – i have voted for the council’s position concerning the draft budget.
in writing. ‒ having closely followed this report i am happy to be able to vote for it now. efsi is one of the main hopes for the revival of the eu economy and it was absolutely normal to readjust the budget lines we use in order to fully enable its creation and functioning. we can now hope for a fruitful implementation of its resources.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 1 of 2015 (dab 1/2015) is a technical adaptation of the eu 2015 budget, which is linked to the agreement on the european fund for strategic investments (efsi). the purpose of this dab 1/2015 is to provide the necessary eur 1 360 million to the efsi guarantee fund in 2015. the esfi agreement had already been adopted in plenary on 24 june by a large majority. the adoption of the report was the first step to putting into effect the eur 315 billion investment plan. the approval of dab 1/2015, which i voted in favour of, is the technical step to ensuring the full operation of the fund by september. that is particularly important, given the recent economic uncertainties which were increased by the result of the greek referendum on 5 july. i voted in favour of this report because europe needs, now more than ever, an investment plan to maintain and further enhance the eu’s competitiveness and economic growth.
in writing. i voted in favour of the ep motion for a resolution on the draft amending budget for the financial year 2015, which accompanies the proposal for a regulation on the european fund for strategic investments efsi. draft amending budget no 1/2015 aims to implement the necessary changes to the budget nomenclature in accordance with the efsi legislative agreement and to provide for the necessary reallocation of eur 1 360 million in commitment appropriations and eur 10 million in payment appropriations. i welcome the fact that a swift agreement on the efsi was reached thanks to the institutions' determination to ensure the swift launch of the fund and that an additional amount of eur 1 000 million over the commission's initial proposal will be financed through the global cfm commitment margin resulting from the remaining margins available from the budgets for 2014 and 2015, thus reducing the reallocation from the connecting europe facility and horizon 2020.
in writing. ‒ i would like to welcome draft amending budget no 5/2015 as a first step in addressing the challenges posed by migratory trends and the unprecedented situation in the mediterranean area. given the situation in the area, the primary objective of these operations should be to save lives at sea. that is why the commission needs to ensure that sufficient financial resources are made available for the union to meet its obligations in relation to search and rescue operations, and long-term solutions to the wider challenges of migration and trafficking in human beings are needed. i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the council position on draft amending budget no 5/2015 of the european union for the financial year 2015 in response to migratory pressures, as the increase in funding for the european operations triton and poseidon, additional to the asylum, migration and integration fund, is welcome to fulfil the eu's responsibilities.
in writing. ‒ the migration phenomenon facing the european union, especially the mediterranean crisis, is becoming increasingly significant. as such, the urgency of this situation can be more effectively managed at union level. i support the report's view that the responsible agencies should not be subject to staff reductions or reassignments, but should instead be appropriately staffed to meet their increasing responsibilities.
in writing. ‒ considering the fact that the financial burden related to the emergency has so far fallen mainly on the national budgets of the southern coastal states of the union and that the increase in migration to europe cannot be considered to be a temporary phenomenon, i welcomed the willingness of all institutions to increase the budget appropriations related to migration and asylum, given the obvious and urgent need.
victor negrescu (s&d),in writing. – i have voted for draft amending budget no 5/2015 as a first budgetary step in response to the challenges posed by the migration trends, and the unprecedented situation in the mediterranean.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i agree that we need to reassess and redistribute our funds for a better implementation of our policies on migration and asylum. the issue is not going to go away, but on the contrary, it seems it will only accelerate in the years to come. the eu needs to be able to prevent it when it is fuelled by conflict or crisis, to mitigate migration when it is illegal and dangerous, and to address migrants in an adequate, tolerant and legal way.
in writing. ‒ following recent tragedies in the mediterranean and the unprecedented increase in the dimension of migratory flows in the world, including towards the southern and eastern parts of europe, the decision to increase the budget appropriations related to migration and asylum is a welcome one. however, the proposed increases in budget and frontex and european asylum support office staff are dismal compared to what is needed to respond to all migratory challenges in europe and to avoid losing ever more lives. at present, the financial burden related to the management of migration is still shouldered by frontline sates, either in southern or eastern europe. given the size and nature of the migration phenomenon, this situation is untenable. instead of applying emergency patches to our financing system that are insufficient, the eu should make a realistic assessment of needs and revise the financial perspectives related to the asylum, migration and integration fund until 2020.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 5 of 2015 (dab 5/2015) aims at reinforcing the eu’s resources that are needed to manage the increasing migration and refugee flows. these reinforcements, up to a total of eur 75.7 million in commitment appropriations and eur 69.6 million in payment appropriations, concern the asylum, migration and integration fund (amif), internal security fund (isf), frontex, easo and europol. with thousands of lives lost at sea on the way to reaching european soil, the present dab should be seen as a first step in responding to the new challenges posed by the enhanced migration trends. however, more steps are required, particularly as the actual needs arising from the ongoing crisis in the mediterranean and migratory challenges are much higher. i voted in favour of dab 5/2015, for i acknowledge the urgency in increasing budget appropriations in order to deal with the growing flows of migration and refugees into europe. i also consider dab 5/2015 to be a way of showing our solidarity with the eu’s southern coastal member states, which currently carry much of the financial burden.
in writing. i voted for the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 5/2015 of the eu for the financial year 2015 reaction to migratory pressures. the commission has also taken note of the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a council decision on the establishment of a european union agency for fundamental rights (fra) and that the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a council decision on the establishment of a european agency for fundamental rights (fra). the resolution also calls for strict control of the use of these funds and, consequently, for more transparency in the contracting and subcontracting procedures, taking into account the various investigations concerning several abuses found in the member states.
in writing. ‒ to counter the possible consequences of the abolition of milk quotas, i welcome the following actions:- income compensation payments the most affected category are primary producers. the level of this compensation should take into account the actual revenue losses and should come from non-cap funds; - introduction of temporary measures to discourage retailers from taking advantage of the market situation and maintaining high selling prices; - introducing support for restricting milk supply where the market situation so requires.
in writing. ‒ volatility will be a continuing challenge facing the dairy sector. dairy farmers are particularly vulnerable to income variations due to high capital costs, volatile dairy commodity prices and fluctuating input and energy costs. furthermore, dairy farmers often occupy a weak position in the overall food supply chain and are particularly exposed to unfair trading practices. the ageing demographic of dairy producers is also a matter of concern and encouraging and supporting generational renewal via new and existing tools is essential for future growth and sustainability for the sector. the strengthening of contractual relations, foreseen in the milk package, represents a concrete method of ensuring a more equitable distribution along the supply chain.
victor negrescu (s&d),in writing. – i have voted for this report on the prospects for the eu dairy sector – review of the implementation of the dairy package, to tackle the current crisis in the dairy sector.
in writing. ‒ while i voted in favour of this report, as i believe it is an important document in the reform of our agricultural sector, i could not support paragraph 22 in the same way my group chose to. milk quotas are a highly sensitive issue and we need to take more into account the needs of producers also in eastern and central europe when it comes to the end of the milk quotas.
in writing. ‒ with this vote, the european parliament has clearly asked the european commission to come up with a new plan to deal with the negative consequences for milk producers of the abolition of quotas in this sector. i welcome the outcome of this vote, as it demonstrates the need to act quickly and with concrete measures to support milk producers throughout the european union, especially small producers who, because of the general crisis, the abolition of quotas and the restriction of trade with russia, are on the verge of survival between production costs and the profit achieved.
in writing. - i voted for the nicholson report. we need market instruments to guarantee price stability in the dairy sector and i believe that the abolition of quotas in this sector was a premature decision. in recent months, the decline in demand on foreign markets, global price volatility and, in particular, the russian embargo have put the milk sector under increased pressure. although the european commission has taken measures to limit the impact of this embargo, the sector has suffered significant losses, with farmers' incomes severely affected. the abolition of quotas requires the creation of functional market intervention instruments and i hope that in the coming period the commission will come up with some concrete proposals to avoid crises in this sector, which is already quite sensitive.
in writing. ‒ dairy products are an important part of the eu's common agricultural policy. they are an essential element in the healthy diet of european citizens, as demonstrated by studies carried out by specialists in the field, and therefore need to be actively supported through the relevant union programmes. in this respect, the milk package adopted in october 2012 and applicable until 2020 is worth recalling. this support is intended to contribute to the positive development of the less developed mountain rural regions of the union and to maintaining an equally high level in the main producing regions, which are vulnerable to fluctuations in the global milk price. at the same time, the embargo imposed by the russian federation on european dairy products has led to a crisis in this area. therefore, measures should be taken to support producers in this area, including through the income stabilisation instrument, given the particular potential of these products at international level. the present report is an important step towards improving the situation of milk producers in the eu and therefore deserves the support of the european parliament, as the major institutional forum of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ decent job creation, competitiveness and productivity within the eu and in third countries through innovative policies and new tools to encourage economic actors to boost growth, including through investment outside the single market, are urgently needed at this time. in this context, public-private partnerships (ppps) could be, among other options, a potential source of growth for eu businesses and at the same time could be useful for partner third countries as these ppps could make available infrastructure, goods and services of general interest. i voted in favour of the report on the external impact of eu trade and investment policy on public-private initiatives in non-eu countries, because increased participation by eu enterprises in large-scale international ppps could create substantial benefits in terms of decent job creation, productivity, competitiveness, and the development of technological and innovation capacities in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because increased participation by european companies in large-scale international projects, particularly ppps, would create substantial benefits in terms of job creation, productivity, competitiveness, technology and innovation, which would bring benefits and economic growth to the eu and the host countries. we need to boost decent job creation, competitiveness and productivity within the eu and in third countries through innovative policies and new tools to encourage economic actors to work to revive growth, including through investment outside the single market. ppps could be, among other options, a potential source of growth for eu businesses and at the same time could be useful for partner third countries, as these ppps could make available infrastructure, goods and services of general interest.
in writing. ‒ the situation of developing countries is quite precarious, especially in the context of the financial crisis, and the public sector cannot provide the necessary adequate investment in areas such as infrastructure, water supply and energy. i therefore support the rapporteur's view that most of these investments could benefit from private sector involvement, because public-private partnerships have the potential to facilitate the adoption of innovative solutions, to mobilise long-term private finance and domestic resources to achieve various development objectives, and are increasingly promoted as a means of addressing the infrastructure financing gap in developed countries as well as in developing countries.
in writing. ‒ in the building, management, maintenance or operation of infrastructures in the transport area (roads, rail, subways), public buildings and equipment (prisons, schools, hospitals), the environment (water and waste treatment or management), utilities, telecommunication or energy networks or development of new technologies or products, there are a number of potential benefits and risks inherent that can be shared between the private and the public sectors. increased participation of european companies in large-scale international projects, most notably in ppps, would lead to substantial benefits in terms of job creation, productivity, competitiveness and technology and innovation, leading to benefits and economic growth across the eu and in host countries. therefore, i would like to focus attention on the possibilities offered by ppps in non-eu companies, and urge the eu institutions to take the necessary steps to promote the participation of eu companies, especially smes, in ppp projects.
in writing. – i have voted for this report on the external impact of eu trade and investment policy on public-private initiatives in countries outside the eu, that proposes potential tools that can enable eu companies to engage in public-private partnerships outside the eu.
in writing. ‒ the current report stresses the opportunities provided to eu companies by private-public partnerships (ppps) in third countries. the report calls on working towards an eu trade policy to ensuring market access for eu companies abroad, particularly in countries that continue to pose substantial barriers in procurement markets. it emphasises the need to facilitate smes’ access to these tenders and makes a number of recommendations in this regard. few, among others include: reinforcing the legal framework for ppps for establishing a clear, predictable and legitimate institutional framework; ensuring adequate human resources to enable the administration to properly design ppps and oversee their implementation; implementing the un guiding principles on business and human rights (ungps); and asking that future ppps within the post-2015 development agenda will follow the goals for poverty reduction and other sustainable development goals. i voted in favour of the report for the potential opportunities it provides european companies and smes in large scale international projects. facilitating the participation of eu companies will not only lead to the creation of jobs, but will also contribute to the development of a sustainable business environment in host countries.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on the external impact of eu trade and investment policy on public-private partnerships (ppp) in non-eu countries. i welcome the fact that the rapporteur has identified the potential of ppps outside the eu, which can generate new opportunities for eu businesses in terms of growth and jobs. the report shows that increased participation by eu enterprises in large-scale international ppps could create substantial benefits in terms of decent job creation, productivity, competitiveness, and the development of technological and innovation capacities in the eu. moreover, the commission's 2010 study 'internationalisation of european smes' highlights the positive link between internationalisation and innovation in products, services and processes.
in writing. ‒ the common agricultural policy (cap) has reduced the regulation of agricultural markets over the last 20 years, allowing market forces to steer production. this general approach was applied specifically to the fruit and vegetables scheme (hereinafter 'f&l scheme'), where instruments such as export refunds or the setting of minimum prices that processors were obliged to pay to farmers for certain products were abandoned. increasing the union-wide organisational rate should continue to be a priority for the f&l regime. the incentives for the creation of po and poa and for mergers between them should therefore be strengthened. it is important to find ways to increase the attractiveness of producer organisations. i voted in favour of the report on the fruit and vegetables sector from the 2007 reform to the present because it gives a balanced picture of the situation in the f&l sector and also highlights the fact that the eu has a trade deficit in the fruit and vegetables sector, particularly in fruit, but in recent years has started to open up its market.
in writing. ‒ over the last 20 years, the common agricultural policy (cap) has reduced the regulation of agricultural markets, allowing market forces to steer production. this general approach was applied specifically to the fruit and vegetables scheme, where instruments such as export refunds or the setting of minimum prices that processors were obliged to pay to farmers for certain products were abandoned. the union has combined this process of liberalisation with a policy of strengthening producer organisations (po), to give farmers the opportunity to act to protect their interests, for example by selling their products collectively or increasing their added value by processing them on the farm. the 2007 reform of the fruit and vegetables regime confirmed and extended the policy of strengthening the role of producer organisations and associations of producer organisations (apos).
in writing. ‒ i believe that both the european commission and the member states need to develop existing actions or establish new actions, including training measures and the exchange of good practices, which can improve the management of producer organisations and their competitive position in the food supply chain, and i stress the need to review the legislation in force in order to ensure better targeting of producer organisations in all member states.
in writing. ‒ strengthening the position of producers’ organisations (pos) in the supply chain by creating incentives for mergers, associations and transnational cooperation is a very important action that we must support. producers’ organisations have become essential for eu agricultural policy and should be encouraged to develop at all levels, especially in the member states where the number of organisations is still low. i believe that pos could be effective tools to combat unfair trading practices in the food chain ensuring better remuneration for the growers. the fruit and vegetable sector has been severely hit by the russian ban on eu exports, and this will continue next year as russia will extend the ban to 2016. i believe that the eu should continue all the support measures for this sector until the normal market situation is fully re-established.
in writing. – i have voted for this report on the fruit and vegetable sector since the 2007 reform to strengthen policies, the role of producer organisations and associations of producer organisations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on my own initiative because it objectively analyses both the commission's report on the state of the fruit and vegetables sector and the reality on the european market. it is very important that the commission's report has brought to the fore the improvements to the fruit and vegetables market, but at the same time it is very important that this own-initiative report highlights the shortcomings of the reforms so far, such as unfair competition and pressure on small producers. at the same time, it is important that at european level efforts have been made, and this report calls for, to promote more closely the association of producers so that they are better organised, stronger and better protected under this legal status. however, the reality in countries such as romania shows that there is still a lot to be done in this area, that corruption in the sector and unfair competition must be combated. without these things, many eu markets, including romania, will not have a competitive market where producers can make the profits they deserve. this is underlined in the report of the european parliament and that is why i have voted in favour of it today.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the melo report on the fruit and vegetables sector because it is a balanced report that illustrates the situation very well. unfortunately, both the quantity of fruit and vegetables produced in the union and the area under cultivation have decreased in recent years. the russian embargo has had a significant impact on the fruit and vegetable market and has severely affected consumer incomes. these losses must be fairly compensated by the commission. i would like to stress the importance of supporting short supply chains in this sector, as they ensure the freshness and quality of fruit and at the same time help local producers. i believe that small producers need more support for the marketing of fruit and vegetables and, in particular, for access to supermarkets, and i hope that in the future the commission will pay more attention to this type of producer. i am pleased that the level of organisation in the sector is on the rise and i hope that it will continue to be so in the coming years.
in writing. ‒ fruits and vegetables are a staple food for the health of european citizens. at the european union level, however, there is modest support for this sector, whose development has been left to the free market. since 2007, however, there has been an increase in support for the fruit and vegetables sector through european agricultural programmes. the economic crisis has halted this positive development, neutralizing the beneficial effects of the policies implemented in recent years. there has even been a deficit in fruit production compared to vegetables within member states, although there are important differences from case to case. this was coupled with the russian embargo on eu fruit and vegetable exports, which deepened the existing crisis. the resolution proposes a number of remedies to these problems, including support for producer associations, investment in human resources in the field, environmental protection measures, measures to support producers in crisis or against abusive practices by supermarket chains. for these reasons, this document should be supported, because it supports a sector that is so important to our citizens.
blue-card question. – mr president, as mr schwab mentioned long-term investment and boosting long-term investment, i would like to ask him if he thinks fostering long-term shareholding is a sure way to boost long-term investment. there are probably other ways as well.
mr president, i too congratulate the people involved in this report, which i regard as a good start. strengthening the economic and business environment in europe must be a constant concern of the european commission, with the main objective of stabilising existing jobs and creating new ones, as well as increasing competitiveness at european union level. today we are increasingly talking about what the european single market is all about, which of course also means legislation to ensure a harmonised and transparent approach across the european union. it is important that there are adequate standards to ensure the functioning of corporate governance of companies with a view to long-term sustainability, which is in the interest of both companies and member states. at the same time, however, a balance needs to be struck between facilitating the exercise of shareholder rights, the right to privacy and the right to the protection of personal data. there is also a need for increased transparency in the remuneration of directors. however - and i say 'however' in emphasising this - i consider that the existence of a legislative framework at european union level should not impede the rights of shareholders of a company, whether it is a cross-border company or not, to set their own remuneration policy in the business plan. it should be noted, however, that effective and sustainable shareholder engagement is the foundation of the effective corporate governance model and stakeholders, and in particular employees, must be stimulated and encouraged to be involved in decision-making processes as a guarantee of effective management.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the effort he has put into producing this very well-structured report, which, in my view, embraces the views expressed in the committee on legal affairs. the report brings more transparency to listed companies in europe on important corporate governance issues. for example, it allows us to have a clear view of the involvement of employees, institutional investors and shareholders in companies. it also increases transparency on the remuneration of directors and on the system of tax regimes in europe. the document also includes a country-by-country report on the taxation system imposed on multinationals, so that citizens and authorities can see if and how large companies pay taxes. this measure is a necessary tool to support the effective fight against tax evasion and financial engineering, and the european parliament, we here, cannot miss the opportunity to offer a real solution that avoids situations like luxleaks or other scandals that affect the image and credibility of the business environment in the european union and the european union.
blue-card question.– mr stuger mentioned that the over-allocation of allowances has led to a significant destabilisation of the system. mr stuger, do you think that the creation of the market stability reserves is going to stabilise the market in the end?
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for their work on this dossier. it is a sensitive issue and it is very difficult to get an agreement that is fair to all member states. obviously, the differences between our economies, between the key industries of each country and between the infrastructures are very large. in my country, heavy industry plays a very important role, which means that our country is more exposed to the impact of a higher carbon price, and it's very expensive to protect the industry through state aid, as other countries do. i think we need to consider offering compensation or financial support at european level to industries affected by the indirect costs of the eu's trading system. i call on the commission to consider this proposal as part of the future review of the ets mechanism. despite these difficulties, the mechanism is an important pillar of eu climate change policy and we are on track for the 2020 targets.
the president. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 8 july 2015. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the report of mr josé manuel fernandes, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the budget 2016 - trilogue mandate (2015/2074 ((bud)) (a8-0217/2015).
mr president, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr fernandes, for having taken account of the opinion expressed by the committee on foreign affairs on the european commission's budget proposal. i would also like to express my satisfaction at the significant increase in both payment appropriations and commitment appropriations for the european union's external policy in the commission's draft budget. if the union is to have a say on the international scene, it must give itself the means to achieve its ambitions. it is therefore essential that the additional budgetary resources provided for in the budget proposed by the commission be preserved in the final budget. these increases are particularly important for payment appropriations, otherwise a whole series of union programmes, such as the instrument contributing to stability and peace, will find it difficult to resume their activities, which have been partially suspended for financial reasons. in foreign policy, our parliament will continue to be committed to the neighbourhood both to the south and to the east, and it seems to me therefore essential that a european neighbourhood instrument should be endowed with sufficient means so that we can support the countries around us. i also think it is important that this year's budget reflects our commitment to respect for human rights and democracy in our neighbourhood and beyond. i hope therefore that the final budget will reflect these two concerns which are at the heart of our foreign policy.
mr president, the european parliament comes to this trilogue with a clear and firm vision of how we think about the european budget. it is very important to us that the budgetary strategy of the european union is focused on development and investment that will ensure a better life for european citizens. in this context, our message is simple: we must have a budget that goes beyond the logic of austerity and focuses on investing in people, in european projects and programmes dedicated to job creation, in those aimed at vocational training, in those supporting the development of smes, in those supporting the development of european democracy and our active role in promoting our values. we therefore expect the european commission to be more clear, efficient and transparent in spending european public money, and we expect, in particular, the european council, which we see still lacking today, to be able to sustain commitments for a european budget that meets the expectations of the citizens it is supposed to represent.
mr president, commissioner, you will negotiate the 2016 budget with mr fernandez - you know him very well, you negotiated the efsi with him and in the end, a very good regulation came out. the 2016 budget - i think it's a budget to say 'of reference' because it will be the first payments from the structural funds. you have to make the payments to cover the debts to cohesion policy - there are a lot of them, over 25 billion - and at the same time i think there has to be the recovery of the money for horizon 2020 and the esf. so you have a complicated negotiation. you've seen the warrant, it's a solid warrant. fernandez has built it very well, and the expectations at the end of these negotiations are very high. i hope these negotiations don't, as usual, be until the last night, when the council says "that's it" and everyone has to agree, because otherwise we don't have the budget. i think that if we do not reach a balance in the budget, meeting the three conditions to pay debts, to take account of payments for cohesion policy 2014-2020 and at the same time to ensure the recovery of funds taken by the efsi from the two important programmes we have to experience one thing: not having a budget for 2016.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 8 july 2014. in accordance with rule 190 (1), i have been informed by the group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats in the european parliament that tomorrow, at the opening of the debate on 'the role of the european union in the middle east peace process', they will request the postponement of the debate for a plenary session at which the vice-president of the commission/high representative will be able to be present. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the question is "blue cardboard". madam president, i listened to our colleague, mrs vergiat, talk about fundamental rights and inequalities, which are very important aspects. the three biggest threats to our lives are terrorism, organized crime and cybercrime. but do you not agree that in situations where our citizens are shot on the beach by terrorists, we must strengthen european security and defence bodies by all possible means?
madam president, the threats to the internal security of the european union are increasing every day. many have become unconventional, asymmetrical, fast-moving and unpredictable. each member state must defend its internal and external security, but the union must also have its own security strategy to be implemented together with the member states. and trust is very important here - trust between the member states and trust of the union in each member state. there is still no real european governance of the common area of freedom, security and justice that is the european union. there is no common defence policy and no european army to intervene to keep the peace when it is threatened in a member state or in a neighbouring country. the european agenda on security, which we are discussing today, and i congratulate the commission on its adoption, has three priorities. the first priority is to fight terrorism and to stop european citizens from joining terrorist groups. another priority is the fight against cybercrime and a third priority is the fight against cross-border organised crime. organized crime finances terrorism, arms terrorist groups and infiltrates the economy. the european anti-fraud office and the joint investigation teams shall work as quickly as possible on the territory of the union. it is vital to confiscate the money used, derived from organised crime. black money that flows freely creates death and brings terrorism. we save lives by fighting organized crime and confiscating money.
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, i want to thank the rapporteur for the good cooperation we had and for her constructive efforts, regardless of our differing political views. it is a shame that, in spite of the importance of these employment guidelines, parliament is involved only in a consultation procedure. i consider this very unfortunate in a time when ‘more europe’ is needed, which should imply, above all, the european citizens’ representatives. at the core of these guidelines there are two aspects: employment and education. we are struggling with higher rates of unemployment, particularly youth unemployment, and the shortage or mismatch of skills. this ultimately points to education again. therefore, member states are being asked and encouraged to tailor policies aiming to boost employment and to curb unemployment, especially among the young population. to achieve these goals they should adapt the education framework so as to be able to foresee future changes in the labour market and thus to prevent skill mismatches. we need realistic and pragmatic approaches to take into consideration each member state’s specificity. education adapted to the needs of the market, apprenticeships, traineeships, sustainable jobs and quality employment are what we should aim for. on the other hand, i am a strong defender of having minimum wages, according to the economic and social capacities of each member state, although i prefer solutions that create opportunities for employment, rather than measures – such as the minimum wage – which may risk prolonging unemployment and perpetuate a static society. inter-eu job mobility should be considered one of the answers here. therefore, fake ‘scarecrows’, such as abuses of national social security systems, recently used by politicians, should be disregarded, as they undermine the european idea and the principles it was built on.
the president. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 8 july 2015. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 8 july 2015. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the definition of the term 'competent authority'. european industry is a key priority, which must improve european competitiveness by placing it in a global and sustainable framework based on digitisation, research and innovation. european energy policy must be another objective of the new presidency, in the context of the energy union recently proposed by the commission. the energy union could be a decisive step forward for the future of the internal market for electricity and gas supply. a viable energy union requires new governance, where final consumers must play a decisive role in shaping the functioning of the new energy market. the luxembourg presidency should also continue the fourth railway package and launch a broad debate on european transport policy in general. the economic success of these three axes will be doubled by the good implementation of the european fund for strategic investments, which could mobilise over eur 300 billion to finance projects of high eu added value. the consolidation of the european economy must go hand in hand with structural banking reform and the establishment of the capital markets union. this will allow for a viable financing of the european economy and will boost the internal market.
in writing. the situation in greece is not just about the economy, but also about how we understand solidarity at european level. it is very important that the european union's strategy towards greece is constructive, focused on development and investment that will ensure a better life and future prospects for the greek people. we need a partnership between the eu and greece that moves beyond the logic of austerity and focuses on investing in people. projects and programmes are needed to train human resources, create jobs, develop smes and innovate. to do this, both partners must stop attacking each other and restart negotiations on new, solid and credible bases. in this respect, i believe that all eu member states should be involved in the negotiation process, even if they are not members of the euro area. the situation in greece also affects countries such as romania and bulgaria, and the experience of those in this area can be beneficial for the future partnership.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement. a solution to prevent greece from leaving the eurozone requires the tsipras government's determination to break out of the vicious circle of a sterile confrontation, demagogic to the logic of economic recovery so necessary for his country. this is not possible without reforms to clean up public finances and lighten the budget. it is the duty of any member of a group to follow the rules that guide it in this case the eurogroup, which brings together the 19 countries of the euro area. on the other hand, i think that a more effective approach is needed from athens' external partners. endless funding leads to unsustainable debt. therefore, i share the view that greece needs a long-term debt reset and a grace period to stabilise economically, but i am totally against any debt write-off. on one condition: that the tsipras government demonstrate that it can move from demagoguery to responsible action to save greece from impending disaster by presenting a viable recovery program.
mr president, thank you so much for your effort to speak romanian. i am very impressed. domnule președinte, domnule comisar, evoluția fenomenului terorist a înregistrat, în ultimii cincisprezece ani, modificări considerabile, atât în ceea ce privește structura organizațională, cât și obiectivele vizate, metodele de acțiune, recrutarea și propaganda. scopul principal și comun al tuturor teroriștilor rămâne subminarea valorilor democratice, a drepturilor omului și a structurii societale. activitatea teroristă reprezintă, în acest context, o amenințare comună, orizontală și transfrontalieră, cu o dinamică în creștere. doar de la începutul anului 2015 s-au înregistrat, la nivel global, 138 de atacuri teroriste, din care șase în luna iulie. printre cei care au condus atacurile se numără nu doar organizații teroriste cunoscute, precum isis, boko haram, al-shabaab sau celule teroriste talibane, dar și așa-numiții „solo teroriști” sau lone wolf terrorist, care acționează din proprie inițiativă. atacurile recente din egipt, tunisia, libia, yemen, nigeria, mali, kenia, siria, somalia, kuweit au vizat nu doar locuri aglomerate, turistice, cu dispozitive de securitate minime, care ar fi diminuat atractivitatea pentru scopuri teroriste dar, în egală măsură, au țintit și forțele de ordine în vederea destabilizării regiunilor, a statelor, a unei regiuni de mari proporții, mena, ca și slăbirea încrederii populației locale și a comunității internaționale în competența statală de a controla fenomenul. amenințarea teroristă nu se oprește însă la granițele ue, iar atacurile din iunie, ce au avut loc în austria și franța, precum și prognoza unor atacuri iminente în state membre reamintesc acest fapt. în acest context, vreau să subliniez importanța creșterii sinergiei în rândul statelor uniunii europene pentru a face față acestei amenințări, precum și a implementării integrale și efective a obiectivului strategic antiterorist conform celor stipulate în strategia de securitate a ue, a elementelor agreate de consiliul din februarie și a priorităților reiterate de consiliul din iunie. de asemenea, susțin inițiativa înaltului reprezentant de a pregăti pentru 2016 o strategie globală de securitate a ue.
mr president, due to the terrorist attacks, the world and europe face a very serious danger. i strongly believe this global threat should be tackled globally. at european level we should take all possible measures to maintain the security and safety of our citizens and play a supportive role in building a cross-border response to this threat. terrorism aims at undermining our societies and our way of life. it is a direct attack on the core values of the european union – democracy, the rule of law, respect for fundamental rights of the citizen and unity in diversity – and a threat to the security, peace, stability and prosperity that european integration has given or is trying to give its citizens. i strongly believe that preventing and combating terrorism requires ensuring that security, human rights and law enforcement are complementary and that european foreign and security policies tackle terrorist threats around the world and their causes.
mr president, i too will start by expressing my solidarity and my sympathy for the tunisian people and passing on my condolences to the very many families affected by the series of tragic events and terrorist attacks. tunisia is the best example of democratic transition after the arab spring, but it is for this same reason that it is the biggest target for those who have interests in destabilising it and with it, the proof that the values of democracy and islam are fully compatible. tunisia desperately needs the support of the eu to achieve its objectives in development and stability and it needs eu assistance even more today, after the terrorist attacks, which specifically targeted foreign tourists to undermine the tourism industry in a key period of the year. i mean massive, effective, economic, financial and technical assistance to tunisia, in line with my colleague and friend gianni pittella, who mentioned the possibility of a special programme for tunisia. helping tunisia also means that the eu benefits, because a stable, democratic and growing tunisia will be the best example of what the countries of the region can achieve and aspire to. reforms have already started. the country has a new constitution but it is still a young and small reality. here i call on the commissioner, and the high representative as well, to help tunisia technically in capacity building and counterterrorism intelligence and equally to consider the possibility of sending back ben ali’s assets, which are now disseminated among several eu member states banks’ and financial systems.
mr president, i would first like to welcome the european union's willingness to open up its relations with cuba and its attempt to implement a new approach with the aim of bringing about political change. what we must not forget is that this is still a totalitarian regime and we must therefore exercise great caution when considering the normalisation of relations with cuba. for raul castro's regime, the thaw does not seem to be synonymous with any political reform. (the president cut the speaker off) the castro caste has no intention of easing the pressure on political opponents or human rights defenders. the cuban government continues to violently suppress dissent and discourage any form of criticism. the peaceful protests have alarmed the regime, which has not hesitated recently to arrest the wives of political prisoners. because, yes, there are still dozens of political prisoners in cuba and thousands of innocent people are still arbitrarily detained and sentenced because they are considered a threat to the system. there is no improvement in freedom of speech. i would remind you that guillermo fariñas had to wait three years before receiving his sakharov prize, right here, because the cuban authorities had not allowed him to travel. cuba is in a similar situation today: anyone who dares to criticize the government or to expose flagrant violations of rights is severely punished. it is still formally forbidden to depart from the official line of the government, because that is the way a totalitarian project with a single and compulsory ideology works. i think it is a risky bet to bet on the idea that economic change will lead to political change. we must be very attentive to the development of the cuban situation, so that castroism does not continue in a new form of authoritarianism, as in some communist countries.
mr president, it is about time we ushered in a new period in eu-cuba relations, based on the necessity of advancement of democracy in this country and the encouragement of economic exchange. we should accompany cuba in the ongoing process of change and modernisation and strongly promote bilateral cooperation and political dialogue on important matters such as the promotion of human and citizens’ rights and freedom of expression in this important process of transition. cuba has the potential to become a member of the acp, and we should keep pushing and developing relations with this country by supporting this request, as it represents an important step towards a strengthened relationship between the european union and cuba by showing mutual respect through a proper committed relationship. looking at advancements that cuba could achieve in the future, i believe that the eu and cuba have a great deal to gain in the future.
mr president, i have listened very carefully to the debate, to the comments and speeches of the commissioner. i thank him for bringing this subject up in the plenary today. we are debating the situation in syria, the situation around the islamic state, the situation in iraq and yemen is a little forgotten. and the situation there, in terms of the civil war, is very similar to the situation in syria, for example. what has been said here, i stress, is that this is highly strategic territory. a territory where if the civil war continues, it could even escalate into another international confrontation between shiites and sunnis, and that i would consider extremely dangerous. therefore, every effort must be made to calm the civil war. i myself am a little skeptical that the conflict will be settled or resolved in the near future. but at least the mitigation of that conflict would be very beneficial in my opinion. the growing civil war has also led to the strengthening of terrorist organisations operating in yemen. and that is extremely disturbing. we have to realize that the weakening or the elimination of the central government in yemen, the fighting that is going on there, is strengthening al-qaeda, is strengthening the islamic state, and it's an extremely dangerous scenario for us. i therefore call on the european union to strengthen political dialogue, but above all to address the humanitarian crisis, which i believe is extremely serious, hundreds of thousands of people are suffering.
mr president, yemen is in the grip of its most severe crisis in years, caused by conflicts and underlying problems of – please note – unequal access to power and resources mainly. it is not a conflict between the two wings of the islamic faith. the recent developments carry grave risks for the stability of the horn of africa, the red sea and the wider middle-east region. i am seriously concerned by the rapidly deteriorating political, security and humanitarian situation in yemen. this could greatly exacerbate regional tensions and increase the possibility of a large-scale war in the area. according to the who’s latest figures, we are more than entitled to worry about the situation in yemen. the unnecessary loss of lives cannot go on. i back the eu’s position and its commitment to support yemen and the yemeni people, and i encourage and support, by all means possible, the negotiating process taking place. we need to engage constructively with the yemeni parties in order to enable the de—escalation of the crisis. i am working on the efforts made by the united nations, and i would highlight the need for a coordinated humanitarian action to contribute to the un’s revised humanitarian appeal. i strongly believe that only a broad political consensus among the parties, attained through inclusive negotiations, can provide a sustainable solution, restore peace and preserve the unity, sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of yemen.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy.– mr president, it is a pleasure to present to this house today, on behalf of vice-president/high representative mogherini, our annual report on human rights and democracy in the world 2014. the annual report tells the story of the work the eu has done on human rights and democracy during the past year, both bilaterally with our partners worldwide and multilaterally. the year 2014 has been a year of unprecedented challenges to human rights. the world has not seen so many people fleeing conflict since the second world war. almost 60 million people are displaced worldwide. these millions of people fleeing their homes to find refuge from violence and economic hardship are an easy prey to violations of human rights. finding an appropriate response to the manifold issues arising from these dire circumstances is often not easy. to ensure that the human rights of migrants are duly respected, we need to address all parts of the chain, providing immediate measures to save lives and fight traffickers while at the same time working on long-term strategies to tackle the root causes. the threat of terrorism poses an ever-growing challenge to our free and open societies, but we need to ensure that counter-terrorism activities are guided by the same principles that formed the foundation of our democratic societies. respect for human rights is central in this regard. in the end, our ability to achieve sustainable improvements on human rights worldwide will also depend on our own ability to live by, and adhere to, these standards. cooperation with this parliament is one of the guardians of democratic principles and values and is therefore of utmost importance to us. in our concerted efforts to find solutions to the most pressing human rights concerns, the eu has taken action in multiple ways, and our report bears witness to that. it underscores the extensive work done by the network of eu delegations worldwide in following cases of human rights violations, meeting the lawyers of jailed human rights defenders, attending trials as observers and leading local, political and human rights dialogues with the authorities. in short, by being on the front line in defending people whose human rights are violated. in 2014 we held human rights dialogues and consultations with nearly 40 partner countries. in addition, many of the 79 african, caribbean and pacific countries that are part of the cotonou agreement conducted a dialogue with the eu, during which human rights issues in cases were raised. at the same time, the implementation of the 132 human rights country strategies has resulted in more intense collaboration between the eu delegations and member states embassies on the ground and has led to more coherent human rights dialogues. our main financial instrument in the area of human rights – the european instrument for democracy and human rights – has continued to support civil society organisations and human rights defenders worldwide. we have also strengthened our capacity to act in a coherent and effective manner by adopting guidelines on freedom of opinion and expression online and offline, and on freedom of religion and belief. the eu has reiterated its strong commitment to preventing and eradicating torture worldwide and has systematically raised individual cases during human rights dialogues, besides calling for the introduction of specific national prevention mechanisms. during the last year, we remained strongly committed to protecting children from violence, exploitation, abuse and neglect. the eu pledged more than eur 100 million for the next seven years to gender equality and children’s wellbeing, including concrete projects on ending female genital mutilation and child, early and forced marriage. the crucial role of our special representative for human rights – and i am happy that stavros lamprinidis is with us today – in increasing the overall coherence, effectiveness and visibility of human rights in eu foreign policy cannot be highlighted enough. the year 2014 also marked the end of our first long-term policy on human rights, the action plan on human rights and democracy for 2012 to 2014, which has allowed the overall coherence and coordination of eu activities in the field of human rights to be improved. progress could also be achieved in mainstreaming human rights across all eu policies and promoting greater coherence in our action towards third countries. not least thanks to your valuable proposals, we managed to make remarkable progress in defining a new, ambitious, long-term policy document for promoting and protecting human rights worldwide in the next five years. i am happy to announce to the house today that, together with member states, we are finalising the new action plan on human rights and democracy for the years 2015-2019. it will aim at substantive further progress in implementing the eu strategy adopted in 2012. it includes multiple dedicated actions focusing on those areas that require renewed political commitment and additional efforts. we intend in particular to concentrate on, firstly, empowering local actors and encouraging indigenous forces in a spirit of partnership, and secondly on addressing human rights challenges in key areas. these include freedom of expression, freedom of religion, anti-discrimination, gender equality, children’s rights, combating torture and promoting economic, social and cultural rights. certainly we want to tackle and redress human rights violations in conflicts and crises. further, we want to foster the coherence of the eu response in strategic policy areas such as migration, trade and counterterrorism. finally, we want to deepen our effectiveness and improve the results of our tools. i am aware that this is a rather ambitious agenda. it will be the agenda for human rights in the coming years. looking back on our activities, we have already come a long way. despite the severe challenges that still remain, we should not underestimate the progress already achieved, hence our increased and concerted commitment for sustainable long-term solutions to the current complex and diverse challenges. we will continue to speak out on injustice and human rights violations all around the world. we will continue to challenge others as much as we challenge ourselves, and we will continue to critically assess our own approach and actions and, where necessary, adjust them. your scrutiny is central and indispensable in this regard.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would first like to welcome the adoption by the council of the annual report on the state of human rights and democracy in the world in 2014 and the statement that commissioner hahn has just made. i am glad to see that the european commission is continuing the tradition of coming to the european parliament to present this text and i hope that the high representative, mrs mogherini, will be present in december when parliament debates and adopts its own report on this subject. i hope that the consistency and strength of our policy on human rights and democracy will be the winner of this interinstitutional dialogue. in recent years, the annual report on the state of human rights and democracy in the world has become a real report on the implementation of the eu's strategic framework and action plan on the same issue. this is of course a very positive development, because we need to take the time to reflect on what we are doing, day by day, to promote human rights and democracy. the 2014 annual report makes me wonder if the interpretation of the term 'implementation' is too narrow. this year's report, which is almost 400 pages long, is in fact a long catalogue detailing the union's actions. it contains the number of dialogues and consultations with third countries, the number of meetings with civil society, details of conferences on human rights, etc. i believe that the report should go further in the understanding of the term 'implementation' and that it should also address the difficulties and, of course, the successes in the implementation of our human rights and democracy policy. it could thus feed the reflection on our policy with concrete examples. i would also like to say, again on the subject of the content of the annual report, that i think it would be important to emphasize our policy of support for democracy more, because it seems to me to be secondary to human rights. in reality, democracy and human rights are closely linked. the most basic rights of any individual are far more likely to be respected in a democratic system than in any other.
when we talk about the human rights situation in the world, we very often provide advice, criticism, sharp criticism to different countries around the world. yet, we can ask the question, are we doing enough to make a real difference in the world's human rights situation? today, countries that receive significant development funds from european taxpayers may still be countries where the rule of law does not function properly, and may even be dragging european union citizens. of course, the eu does not have to stop cooperating with such states; on the contrary, we need to monitor events more closely and put more pressure on our partners. if we don't stand up hard for our own citizens, how can we hold third countries accountable for ensuring a high level of human rights for their own citizens? i am convinced that the european union must be more consistent in this area, since we have principles and values that are not disputed between member states.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members for this very fruitful debate. i cannot agree more that maximising our internal-external coherence is of pivotal importance if we want our policies to be credible and to have real impact. in this process the role of this parliament is vital. mainstreaming human rights into all our external policies is an ongoing process, and despite much progress made so far we must continue our efforts. in that respect i fully agree that support and cooperation with ngos is indispensable. if i take, for instance, only the neighbourhood area, there we have increased our budget for the support of ngos by another 20% compared to the previous period. finally, let me express my deep appreciation for the very constructive and enhanced cooperation with this house to ensure that we all speak with one voice in upholding the universality of human rights and supporting the democratic aspirations of our partners.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the council adopted the annual report on human rights in the world in 2014, a very important report that refers to the numerous human rights violations around the world, the protection and promotion of human rights being the only way to guarantee security and stability in the world. it is worth noting that the eu has held formal human rights dialogues and consultations with numerous partner countries and regional groups. however, there has been a reduction in the scope for civil society in many countries and an increase in the number of restrictions on ngos. the union has condemned the attacks on journalists and bloggers in public statements and in its bilateral relations and must continue to support human rights defenders. efforts to prevent and eradicate torture and ill-treatment and to protect the rights of persons belonging to minorities must also be continued. at the same time, sustained efforts and measures must be taken to support women human rights defenders and those from vulnerable and marginalised groups, and to protect children from violence, exploitation, abuse and neglect. the allocation of funds for concrete projects related to the elimination of female genital mutilation, as well as child, early and forced marriage, should be continued.
madam president, you just said what i wanted to say. i just want to reiterate that, bearing in mind the importance of this debate and the fact that this debate is meaningful when the key player – the vice-president of the european commission – is there, the s&d group, which practically initiated this process, repeated the call to adjourn the debate and to consider that debate possible with the high representative in the chamber. i would also like to inform them that we are coordinating with other political groups, and i hope that we shall agree that this debate will take place when all conditions are met.
madam president, the epp group supports this request from the socialist and democratic group, but i must add that we regret that the announcement is so late. i think that we already knew a few days ago what mrs mogherini's programme would be and that the necessary arrangements could have been made before. but it is good to have the high representative here with us, and we support this request.
madam president, because our colleague made a statement which is completely untrue, i want to rectify that. yesterday evening, just at the end of the day, we were formally and officially informed that the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy is still in vienna for the negotiations on the iran nuclear talks. it is completely unfair to blame the high representative, knowing that she is working for peace in europe.
member of the commission.– madam president, i appreciate the opportunity to speak to you today upon the presentation of your excellent report on ‘the security challenges in the mena region and the prospects for political stability’. you have very accurately described the main political developments in the region over the last four years and well highlighted the areas in which the eu could play an important role. as you know, the geopolitical landscape of the mena region has been utterly transformed during this period. today, the eu is facing an arc of conflicts and crises – from iraq, syria and an unresolved middle east conflict, to libya and the sahel, with spillover effects throughout the region. at the same time, the talks with iran give us hope that a more cooperative order in the region is indeed possible, and therefore once again i think it is justified that our high representative is there and participating very actively in these discussions. let me briefly mention the state of play and how the eu sees the situation in some of these countries. in tunisia, following the attacks in sousse, we are more united than ever to ensure success of the transition with the tunisian people. i have instructed my services to use accelerated procedures to deliver our support, including measures directed at the tourism sector, which is demoralised as a result of this attack, and may i recall that we were able to discuss this issue in extenso earlier today. in libya, the eu – together with the international community – has deeply engaged with the country, but i cannot emphasise enough my plea to libyan participants to accept the un proposals in good faith in the interests of the libyan people. on the unresolved middle east conflict, the eu stands ready to work with both israel and palestine, and all other major stakeholders, to return to negotiations with the aim of achieving a comprehensive peace agreement based on a viable two-state solution. the situation in syria and its neighbourhood is a strong reminder of the urgency to reignite an inclusive syrian-led political process on the basis of the geneva communiqué. we fully support the un special envoy staffan de mistura, and along with the un we have launched an urgent humanitarian appeal for the region. as underlined in ‘the eu regional strategy for syria and iraq as well as the da’esh threat’, we are determined to support the efforts of those countries hosting a huge number of refugees. in this context i must mention the efforts of lebanon, jordan and turkey: the burden they are carrying is enormous. we are also ready to cooperate with iraq and other neighbouring countries on security and counter-terrorism issues and to move towards implementation of much-needed political and socio-economic reforms. against this background, we welcome your excellent report on ‘the security challenges in the mena region and the prospects for political stability’. we thank in particular vincent peillon for his work as rapporteur, the committee on foreign affairs (afet) and all meps for their constructive approach to the challenges faced in the mediterranean region. i would also include in my thanks, of course, the shadow rapporteurs. i fully agree with your conclusion that the conflicts in syria, iraq, yemen and libya and the increase in tensions in the mena region are major sources of destabilisation, that the risks these developments entail for european security are serious, and that it is a huge challenge to effectively enunciate and implement a coherent conflict resolution strategy. i also agree with your conclusion: to effectively deal with this challenge, the european union and its member states must think strategically in the medium and long term. we must look at all issues from a broad, global perspective; we need to develop all-round policies, responding to the emergencies but also dealing with their deep causes; and we need to keep strengthening our cooperation with all relevant regional actors, for complex threats require coordinated responses. crisis management is important, but it is not enough. think of terrorism: in the long term, i believe that functioning and inclusive democracies, human rights, education and good jobs are the best antidote to radicalisation. as stated in your report, fighting terrorism must go together with supporting genuine democratic reform in the region. some believe that countering terror requires repression. in fact it is the exact opposite: in the long run, a democratic environment is the only cure for radicalisation. mostly this is about providing opportunities to the youngest members of society. young people must be inspired by values that reject violence, create peace and build inclusive, open societies. this is why supporting education is so important. but education is of little use if we cannot also create jobs, and good jobs. this is vital to ensure that everyone finds a positive role to play in society. all communities must be given a chance to contribute to the social, economic and political life of their own countries. entire religious and ethnic groups – christians and others – are being forced to flee from lands they have inhabited for centuries. this has little to do with a ‘clash of civilisations’: the terrorists often know very little about the qur’an. it is not a war of religion but a struggle for power and regional hegemony. the eu is doing all it can to halt and prevent this violence. we will not let sectarianism prevail. moreover, i fully agree that the engagement and empowerment of women in the public, political, economic and cultural spheres is key to fostering stability, peace and economic prosperity in the long run. women’s rights and gender equality must be basic components of the political and human rights dialogue between the eu and the mena countries. the eu is committed to ensuring that human rights are mainstreamed in all its activities. since 2012, the eu has engaged regularly with the league of arab states, including the arab human rights charter committee and the arab national human rights institutions. as you rightly point out, in the past the european neighbourhood policy sometimes failed to adequately take into account the specificities of each of our partners, including with regard to identifying civil society partners needing support and capacity-building assistance. the review of the neighbourhood policy that is on the way is an opportunity to introduce changes that will help the eu to be a stronger player. we intend to propose ways and means to further the european neighbourhood policy, to allow more tailor-made offers and solutions specially designed for each partner. i would also like to thank the european parliament for the constructive input you have given and will, no doubt, continue to give. a comprehensive approach needs strong and reliable partners in order to be effective. both europe and the arab world are targets for the terrorists. we need a truly global alliance to fight our common battles. as the report states, regional challenges call for regional solutions. in this sense, the report is very much in line with our commitment for closer co-operation with the league of arab states and the union for the mediterranean. as agreed in the eu-league of arab states athens declaration, we are working closely on counter-terrorism in the mena region, on capacity-building measures and to address the ‘foreign fighters’ phenomenon. before i leave you the floor, let me add something on the naval operation in the mediterranean. after the mid-april tragedy, member states asked the european union to act against the human traffickers’ networks, to save more lives. in the space of two months, we set up and launched the operation. countries from all sides of europe are contributing. things did not move on so smoothly on the domestic side of the debate. this tells us something. our problem, most of the time, is a lack of political will. it is not our strength that is being tested, but our resolve. i look forward to hearing your views on this strategic debate.
on behalf of the epp group. madam president, i speak on behalf of the epp group. our shadow reporting, mrs. manescu, is not available here. i want to say first of all that it's no secret that the middle east and north africa is going through a very turbulent period. after the optimism generated by the arab uprisings, today we are very concerned about developments in the region. we have states on the verge of collapse, diminishing terrorist networks, millions of refugees and massive violence. or the security of europe is inextricably linked to the stability and security of this region. i would therefore like to congratulate mr peillon on his report. this report provides an in-depth analysis of recent developments and several ways to respond to security challenges. i am also pleased that the high representative, in the reflection paper on the review of the european security strategy, recognised the need to redefine the union's approach to the middle east and north africa. we need, i think, a comprehensive and ambitious approach that addresses the causes of the rapid deterioration of the situation in the region. the threat of terrorism requires us to use our internal and external security policies consistently. humanitarian assistance and development cooperation must also be combined in a harmonious way. and since we have just been talking about human rights, i would like to emphasise a very important point for the epp group, namely the continuing violation of religious freedom in this region and, first of all, of the freedom of christians. last week, our group held a conference on this subject and we were able to hear the shocking testimony. we therefore believe that the union must have a very clear strategy for the protection of christians in this region.
in writing.– for decades, the middle east has been dominated by the arab-israeli conflict. the muslim communities in the major eu countries have naturally been affected by these ups and downs, in turn, influencing the diplomatic position of those countries – consequently, of the eu – on the conflict itself and the attempts to find a durable solution to it. coupled with the radicalization generated by the current world economic and financial crisis, the number of anti-semitic manifestations in western europe has increased and the official eu positions on the arab-israeli conflict got tougher in consequence. the reality is much more complex: the middle east and north africa have become the object of a border-breaking process: libya, syria, iraq and yemen have now, for all practical reasons, fluctuating borders, nobody knowing how they will look in the future. the attempts of isil – a product of an intra-muslim bitter conflict – of filling the vacuum thus created is already contributing to the radicalisation of the eu muslim communities, displacing the old arab-israeli conflict as the number one cause of it. consequently, the eu should revise its traditional perception centred around the latter, refocusing instead on the redrawing of borders in the arab world.
member of the commission.– mr president, thank you once again for giving me a break; this is old collegiality between commissioners. i would also like to thank all of you for the opportunity to come and discuss with you the review of the european neighbourhood policy (enp) and i am particularly grateful to eduard kukan and also to the shadow rapporteurs for their hard work in bringing together the views of the committee on foreign affairs on such an important issue. we have just come to the end of our public consultation on the enp review based on the joint communication we published in march. the vice-president/high representative, myself and our teams have held consultations with member states, national parliaments, partner countries, civil society, social partners, local and regional government, businesses, think tanks and academia. it is not often that europe’s foreign policy is opened up to such a widespread debate. of course, consultation, views and advice from parliament have been a key part of this process, and i have greatly appreciated the opportunity for me and also my officials to meet you on several occasions to share information and ideas. in the consultation there has been a great consensus that events in the eastern neighbourhood and in the southern mediterranean demand a new approach to the enp. we need to rethink our approach and put our partnership on a new footing. your own reflections have underlined the need for greater differentiation in the way we work with partners. this is a principle that has found a positive echo among our partners and with member states. we need to find the right formula for each of our partners in a way that serves our own interests and theirs. it is clearer now even than it was at the start of the review that we need to work closely with our neighbours on common challenges such as migration, terrorism, extremism and energy security. this year, 2015, has given us ample proof that this partnership cannot be a one-way street but must be one based on mutual interests and need. some of these partners are seeking a close integration with us and some do not currently have this aspiration. this is the reality to which we must adapt our policy. we need to identify how we can show our relevance to this diverse range of partners while at the same time remaining true to our fundamentals. our aim is a prosperous stable neighbourhood. we will continue to support democracy, the rule of law, human rights, and efficient and accountable public institutions as essential ingredients for the neighbourhood we want to see. when i visit our partner countries i make a point of ensuring that i visit civil society organisations. i believe that they play an essential role both in ensuring accountability and the fair development of their societies and in providing vital advice to the european union. where we have successful cooperation in place we should pursue it, but we will aim to be more responsive and more flexible in how we can support those wrestling with painful reforms. we will work harder to make sure that our support is coordinated so that each country can draw maximum benefit from the help on offer from the eu and its member states. where partner countries want a more focused agenda of cooperation, we should be ready to offer this. i believe there are some key areas that are emerging as the natural focus for some of our partners: economic growth and decent job opportunities, particularly for the young; promoting business links in targeted sectors; circular migration that offers opportunity without draining talent permanently away from home, alongside the continuing efforts to tackle the challenges of irregular migration. we must do all we can to make sure that all our foreign policy and security tools are brought together to help resolve conflict and develop the resilience of our partners. where we can, we must reach out for partners beyond the neighbourhood who share the eu’s interest in stability and development. so i am looking forward to hearing your views on these and other key elements of the review.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, i would like to start by congratulating my colleague, eduard kukan, on an excellent report! it is a report that analyses the limits of the european neighbourhood policy, the one we have available today, and also proposes a vision of what the european neighbourhood policy should be. and i think that's our main problem here - we need a strategic vision of the union's relationship with both its southern and eastern neighbours. both face exceptional economic, political and security challenges and, in order to respond to these challenges, the neighbourhood policy must be strategic, focused, flexible, coherent and have a clear political direction. in particular, i think we need to have very good coordination between our foreign and security policy and our neighbourhood policy. we need, in other words, a fine-tuning of the principles of differentiation and, respectively, more for more. our partners who want an advanced level of engagement with the union and who make reform efforts like moldova need to be rewarded. the prospect of becoming a member of the union is the most important catalyst for reform. we must not forget this. on the other hand, support for democracy, the rule of law and good governance must be the core strength of the revised european policy. having a vision of the european neighbourhood policy is not enough. we need resources that match our ambitions to really engage more in the neighbourhood policy. only then will we have an effective policy - which is, after all, indispensable for the credible foreign policy we want.
on behalf of the s&d group.– mr president, our neighbourhood is less stable than ever before, and the divergence of aspirations of our partners has never been greater. it is clear that we need to rethink our policy. looking at the security dimension today, conflicts are a reality to both the east and the south. so far we have decoupled the security issue from everything else, but security – even if outside the remit of the enp – has an impact on the building of a well-functioning state and associated reforms. we need closer coordination between the enp, the cfcp, the csdp and development policy. the eu needs an approach which mobilises all available instruments and resources in a coherent way. on the issue of ambitions and membership perspectives, countries to the east have made radically different choices on their relations with the eu. we have to acknowledge this important change, and this can only mean one thing: we need to do more for those which have real and tangible european ambitions and have decided on the european path. this report also establishes a strong position on the false dilemma between values and interests. democracy, the rule of law and human rights are in the interest of neighbouring societies as much as our own in terms of stability, security and prosperity. the social, labour and gender dimensions of the enp have a crucial role to play in this regard. let me conclude by thanking the rapporteur and colleagues. we were able to build convergence on the way ahead, and i am confident that, with tomorrow’s vote, we will be sending to the commission a strong and ambitious text.
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the european commission thanks parliament for allowing this debate to take place, and we welcome it. the european union has a duty to help the people of bosnia-herzegovina, and to help the people of bosnia-herzegovina, to help the people of bosnia-herzegovina, to help the people of bosnia-herzegovina, to help the people of bosnia-herzegovina, to help the people of bosnia-herzegovina, to help the people of bosnia-herzegovina, to help the people of bosnia-herzegovina, to help the people of bosnia-herzegovina, to help the people of bosnia-herzegovina, to help the people of bosnia-herzegovina, to help the people of bosnia-herzegovina, to help the people of bosnia-herzegovina, to help the people of bosnia-herzegovina, to help the people of bosnia-herzegovina, to help the people of bosnia-herzegovina, to help the people of bosnia-herzegovina, to help the people of bosnia-herzegovina, to help the people of bosnia-herzegovina, to help the people of bosnia-herzegovina, to help the people of bosnia-herzegovina, to help the people of bosnia-herzegovina. on the 20th anniversary of this terrible event, our thoughts are with the families of those who lost their closest relatives in this tragedy. we commemorate the victims and we must also acknowledge that europe and the world - and we too - failed to do everything possible to protect the victims. the srebrenica genocide, which took place exactly twenty years ago, left scars and traces not only in south-eastern europe but throughout europe. it has caused deep wounds in bosnia and herzegovina and it continues to impose on us the moral obligation not to forget this. it calls on all of us, and in particular on the elected politicians in bosnia and herzegovina and the region as a whole, to take responsibility for preserving the memory - which is what we are doing here today - for supporting justice in the prosecution of war crimes and, finally, for steps towards reconciliation - for reconciliation throughout the region in the interests of present and future generations. to alleviate the pain of the bereaved, it is essential to bring the perpetrators to justice and to find out the truth and the fate of the many people still missing. this is also a necessary condition for gradually achieving lasting reconciliation in bosnia and herzegovina and in the whole region between the various peoples, the people. for those in charge of the european union, one of the most important lessons of the balkan wars was to be committed not only to reconstruction. we have also made a clear statement in favour of a future for the countries of the western balkans in the european union. they are candidates for membership and we should continue to make that offer in a credible way. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: i would like to express the commission's wish that the commemoration of srebrenica, which is intended to honour the victims of the genocide, should also be the impetus for a comprehensive reconciliation. in bosnia and herzegovina as in all countries in the region the commission expects a determined commitment from the authorities and society to the path towards the european union. this is the best way to get over the tragedies of the past - not to forget them, but to get over them - and to ensure that crimes like that genocide in srebrenica twenty years ago can never happen again. we thank the european parliament for today's resolution. the commission regrets that a similar resolution proposed by the united kingdom could not be adopted at the same time in the un security council, despite the veto of the russian federation. we believe that such tragic events in the history of our continent should not be used for current policy measures.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, today's discussion and the text we are going to vote on are very important, especially in a context where the un security council failed to adopt a resolution yesterday. we have a duty to commemorate the victims of these heinous crimes, which took place 20 years ago, when srebrenica fell. so our thoughts are with the victims and their families today. this is a duty of remembrance for us europeans and for the citizens of bosnia and herzegovina and the region. without this work of remembrance, there can be no reconciliation, just as there can be no reconciliation without the restoration of the truth, however painful. the truth is that 20 years ago a genocide occurred in srebrenica. we condemn it as strongly as we reject any attempt to make it a relative or to deny it. not only does it damage the memory of the victims, it also undermines the process of reconciliation. that is why i call on the political leaders of bosnia and herzegovina and the region to lead by example and to help society to recognise and accept this difficult past so that their country can move forward. we must do everything we can to ensure that such events do not happen again and show our support for the integration of bosnia-herzegovina and the western balkans into the union. this is the best way to help them overcome their divisions.
madam president, we commemorate today in the european parliament what happened in bosnia and herzegovina when those human beings were killed. unfortunately, the united nation troops failed to protect the people there. this was their main duty. we have to check with the united nations peacekeeping activities so that this does not happen again. we have to deplore the vote by russia against the un resolution on genocide. it is unbelievable how a country can deny that such a situation is genocide. the guilty have to be brought to justice. reconciliation is so important for bosnia and herzegovina in its path towards european integration. this kind of genocide must not happen again.
on behalf of the s&d group.– madam president, it is extremely important to support the change of legal base to give parliament the power of co—decision and a say in ensuring a high level of protection for the health of eu citizens. the european parliament is being consistent in its support for a change in the legal base from euratom to the tfeu. it has done so on previous occasions on previous files concerning the threats to public health from radioactive material. we now have a good report asking the commission to review the maximum levels and to allow for the adoption of implementing acts for swift action in emergency situations. we also call for consultation with independent experts when the maximum levels need to be reviewed. the annexes laying down maximum levels, as well as the radioactive substances concerned, will be reviewed as and when new scientific data become available. therefore, i would like to ask for your support with a positive vote later today.
madam president, first of all, i must appreciate that we are discussing such an important matter today, because this report is actually about people's lives. i think the maximum level of radioactive contamination of food and feed is extremely important for the future of the world, after all. i am of course also in favour, as has been discussed here, of the european parliament having codecision, and i am in favour of working with experts. but it seems strange to me that we cannot know who the experts are here in parliament! i strongly believe that transparency in relation to, if you will, the curriculum vitae, the work of the experts, gives confidence to parliament, gives confidence to us who have to analyse and vote on the matter. i don't think it's right that these experts are not known. i also think it is very important that the debate that we have in the european parliament is made public in each of the member states. there are countries that are more affected, because of the development of the danger, so to speak, in that country. i think that as a parliament we must also take account of how we develop - because we have an energy union project - how we develop the other areas, so that we do not end up with accidents that contaminate food and feed. in principle, i agree with the report, but with this exception: the experts. we must know them and their work!
madam president, it is critically important to have legal instruments that include flexible incident—specific decision—making procedures to address situations like those that occurred in the wake of the accidents at chernobyl and fukushima. i welcome the inclusion in the report of the reference to the need for consultation with independent experts when reviewing maximum levels. moreover, full information must be made immediately available to the general public. food safety is the ultimate objective of the council regulation. therefore, i strongly support the change of legal base under the lisbon treaty. it is appropriate to give the european parliament an appropriate say in the protection of public health in line with its co-legislative role.
question no 2 by mrs isabella adinolfi (h-0414/97) subject: the commission has not yet decided whether to grant a discharge to the european parliament in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2000 if you don't support the report and say that no one should pay, how do you think authors who are currently fighting in the shadows to recover their copyright can be paid? how will they be paid? where will the money come from?
madam president, colleagues, this report is not about copyright or just about how it affects the digital environment. this document is about the economic model that we want to promote, especially in the online space in europe. we social democrats believe in a safe and fair internet, and new technologies must allow citizens more freedom and more rights. for us, the digital space should not be dominated or controlled by anyone, but for a free internet, we must protect those who create and use the online environment to thrive. copyright should not limit the potential for the development and affirmation of the digital space, especially for education, culture or entrepreneurship, but we must also protect the work of real authors. the european digital economy needs a harmonised copyright system to enable it to compete with its competitors on other continents. i am pleased with the compromises made for this report, but i sincerely believe that we could have done more for the european online environment. we need freedom of panorama. we need a well-developed, supported and harmonised digital system.
madam president, i would like to thank the author of this report very much. i think it is very important that the european union is trying to support financially ngos in countries where there is a political transformation. i am myself a member of parliament for the czech republic, which has a communist past. in the 1990s i was in various youth organizations and i am aware that if it were not for the money from foundations that worked in western europe, we would have had a hard time doing educational projects and conferences, we would have had a hard time getting young people, the young generation into czech politics. so i think it's really important, it's not just about the distribution of money. it is our moral duty to help, especially the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the middle east, the countries where democracy is still not firmly established. so thank you again, and i hope that the 12 countries that have not yet paid their contributions will do so after today's report. because like i said, it's very important.
madam president, the european endowment for democracy (eed) has shown, after two years of existence, that it has fulfilled the purpose for which it was created. its promotion of european values, of freedom and democracy, has achieved very good results. the eed remains an independent private law foundation that delivers through fast, flexible, bottom-up and demand-driven funding. it provides these funds directly to beneficiaries in a financially-efficient manner that compliments other eu means, doing so with minimal administrative burden and simpler procedures. to sustain and further develop the effectiveness of the eed, it is vital that long-term, sufficient, stable, transparent and predictable funding for it is ensured. i support a stronger emphasis on groups that suffer from social exclusion or political marginalisation by supporting, among others, groups such as women’s movements, lgbti, human rights activists, emerging political movements, trade unions and bloggers.
mr president, i voted for this report. europe needs the transatlantic trade and investment partnership with its natural partner, the united states, for growth, jobs and development. after two years of negotiations, let's conclude this treaty! the transatlantic partnership will increase eu exports to the united states by 28%. it will remove barriers for smes to enter the us market, such as export licenses, labelling requirements or certification procedures. customs duties and customs controls will be abolished. that means more trade, more money, more jobs. in addition, the united states has cheap energy, and europe has expensive energy. the partnership will liberalise trade, leading to cheaper energy and greater geopolitical independence from the russian federation.
in writing. ‒ the eu and the us are the main actors in global trade and investment (the eu is the largest economy in the world, accounting for no less than 25% of gdp and 17% of trade, both globally, with the us in second place, with 21% of global gdp and 13% of global trade). given the volume of economic interactions and the very large size of the eu and us markets, a transatlantic trade agreement can create significant benefits for businesses and their consumers, generating jobs and economic growth on both sides of the atlantic. i spoke in favour of this report because i am convinced of the strategic importance of the eu-us economic relationship in general and of ttip in particular as a chance to promote the principles and values that the eu and the us share, due to common approaches to international trade policy, investment and trade issues, as well as high standards, rules and regulations to develop a broader transatlantic vision and a common set of strategic objectives.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the european union must ensure that a comprehensive and ambitious ttip agreement is reached, which stimulates fair competition for both sides, takes into account the values of the european social market economy, brings benefits to consumers, industry and investors, and stimulates the creation of quality jobs and economic growth.
in writing. ‒ considering the latest developments in negotiations for the ttip, i would like to express my content that the report contains important s&d group demands, namely strong protection of labour rights and ratification of the international labour organisation (ilo) conventions; high environmental standards; protection of public services, and also protection of our food and health safety standards. we consider that it is a unique opportunity for the ep to have a strong position in the negotiations between the eu and us by setting up standards on international trade. i congratulate the rapporteur on the compromise negotiated to oblige the commission to exclude isds from the trade agreement and i support the compromise amendment which replaces the isds with a new public, democratic and transparent system that functions on an appellate mechanism where private interests cannot undermine public policy objectives. ttip is a huge opportunity not only in the economic and trade issue, but a paramount historical political necessity between the two shores of the atlantic that share common values – a matter of common values and interests.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report so that the ttip agreement will have the highest possible level of transparency and will guarantee that only a good agreement will be adopted, an agreement which respects european values, stimulates sustainable growth and contributes to the well-being of all citizens.
in writing. ‒ while i have certain reserves towards the ttip project, i certainly support the european parliament report on this issue and i can only hope the eu negotiators will take these recommendations to heart. they need to remember that whatever they negotiate with the us needs to pass a vote in plenary and that their work needs to be focused on opening up markets and not de-regulating important eu health rules. they need to focus on generating mutual prosperity and not allow unfair market and investor practices to detrimentally affect the citizens of europe. this is because the european parliament will not allow just any type of ttip to be adopted.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament is calling on the commission to abandon the provisions relating to the isds (investor-state dispute settlement) mechanism in the treaty negotiated with the us. the s&d rapporteur, bernd lange, also delivered an important message on this occasion: isds must be removed from all bilateral agreements, as there are over 1 300 agreements containing such provisions and mechanisms. the s&d group has once again shown that it wants equal rights for both european and non-european investors.
in writing. ‒ it is important that the negotiation process of this trade agreement takes into account the development of the european industrial sector and the fulfilment of the commitments made by the member states under the europe 2020 strategy to increase the share of industry in gdp from 15% to 20%. the european parliament has given the commission a negotiating mandate, which must be carried out in a democratic and transparent manner, because only under these conditions can the objectives assumed by the european union and the member states be achieved: the promotion of sustainable growth, the development of the small and medium-sized enterprises sector, the creation and protection of jobs for citizens, and the provision of a higher degree of protection and satisfaction for european consumers. the negotiating mandate should aim at an agreement capable of creating secure jobs for european citizens, in line with the europe 2020 strategy, which has set itself the objective of achieving a 75% employment rate at union level. it is equally important that the negotiation process does not in any way affect the key values of the european union. an agreement is needed to facilitate transatlantic trade without, however, leading to a decline in food safety standards or a high level of protection of personal data.
in writing. a transatlantic agreement negotiated with professionalism and for the benefit of all europeans, paradoxical as it may seem, will accelerate the process of integration into the eu of the central and eastern european member states, including my country, romania. the concrete provisions of ttip, which is a trade and investment agreement, are very important and must be negotiated with the utmost care. the big picture is as important as the technical details. although not a champion in bilateral trade with the us, romania will have direct benefits as a result of ratifying ttip. and through our most important trading and economic partners, which are the eu's founding states, we will also become indirect beneficiaries of ttip. romania has a relatively modest bilateral trade with the us of around usd 2 billion, but the indirect benefits become clear when we consider that germany is our first trading partner with a bilateral trade figure of over eur 21 billion. this is one of the reasons why i support the negotiations for the conclusion of ttip and why i voted today for the report on the ep recommendations on the ttip negotiations.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the request for consent submitted by the council, i voted in favour of the european parliament consent to conclusion of the protocol.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report so that the former yugoslav republic of macedonia takes account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report and i salute the work done by my colleague mr vajgl on this issue. macedonia deserves to have its european aspirations confirmed, and to have all the efforts it has made so far rewarded. i believe they still need to reinforce european values and to better improve their judiciary, but certainly macedonia needs to be a part of europe and to come ever closer to the european union!
in writing. ‒ the process of enlargement of the european union is a natural phenomenon, designed to bring together all the states on the european continent that share european democratic values. these values include interethnic and religious tolerance, especially in relation to minorities. macedonia has recently been experiencing a major political crisis, which is affecting the fragile balance established in 2003 by the ohrid agreement, regulating the right of ethnic minorities to their due representation in national political institutions. however, it is becoming increasingly difficult to comply with this agreement in the context of a precarious economic situation and the rather distant prospects for the european integration process. the european union has a duty to support macedonia in achieving the highest possible level of compatibility with european rules with a view to its accession to its structures in the not too distant future. ensuring this perspective is likely to contribute to the normalisation of the current volatile political situation and to the resumption of progress towards the strengthening of national democratic institutions. the adoption of the current protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia is only a first step towards a positive development of this country on the path of european integration.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the request for consent submitted by the council, i voted in favour of the european parliament consent to conclusion of the protocol.
in writing. – i have voted for this report so that the republic of serbia takes account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union.
in writing. ‒ enlargement of the european union is a process that cannot bypass such a sensitive area as the balkans. croatia's european integration has demonstrated that the countries of the region are capable of achieving the standards of convergence necessary to successfully complete this difficult and arduous process. of course, each of these countries has its own particularities, stemming from recent developments. serbia has experienced dramatic moments in the last two decades, which have undoubtedly affected the morale of its citizens, generating attitudes against western values that are difficult to erase in the short and medium term. despite these problems, serbia has in recent years experienced an upward trend both politically and economically, which has enabled it to obtain eu candidate status. in the current international political context, however, serbia has become the scene of intense geopolitical rivalries between european structures and those promoted by russia. in these circumstances, it is necessary to accelerate the process of european integration of this country, the only guarantee that it will successfully complete the process of eu accession. for these reasons, i believe that the adoption of the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement with serbia is an essential step towards achieving this.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the request for consent submitted by the council, i voted in favour of the european parliament consent to renewal of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation with india.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the agreement on the renewal of scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the republic of india.
in writing. ‒ horizon 2020 is a financial instrument that puts the initiatives of the innovation union into practice, being the largest cooperation and innovation programme funded by eu funds and private investment. with the objective of promoting research and innovation, horizon 2020 aims to strengthen scientific and technological cooperation with third countries, with a view to developing the exchange of knowledge and technology and ensuring the free movement of researchers. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the eu's research and innovation agenda must give priority to international cooperation, because the needs for innovation are common and research knows no borders.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the request for consent submitted by the council, i voted in favour of the european parliament consent on the conclusion of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the faroe islands associating the faroe islands with horizon 2020.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the faroe islands associating the faroe islands with horizon 2020 – the framework programme for research and innovation.
mr. chairman, long-term shareholder engagement and corporate governance will drive long-term investment. the financial crisis highlighted shareholders' excessive short-term risk-taking, which led to the bankruptcy of many companies. the proposal voted on makes european companies much more attractive by offering incentives to shareholders through special voting rights and dividends. the managers will also be required to disclose all information concerning potential conflicts of interest, investment strategy, turnover. citizens need to know why a company has raised or lowered a price. the voting of the director's salary policy by the general meeting of shareholders is also introduced as a mandatory requirement. that's how we make sure a ceo doesn't pay his own salary. transparency is the key against tax fraud and conflict of interest.
in writing. ‒ encouraging shareholder participation in corporate governance of companies is intended to increase their financial performance, hold decisions accountable and, at the same time, advance the particular interests of companies. to that end, a balance needs to be struck between the exercise of shareholder rights, confidentiality and the protection of personal data. furthermore, the commission should present clear rules on the establishment of specific requirements for the transmission of information on the identity of shareholders. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that more active participation of shareholders in companies helps to increase the transparency of the decision-making process and to strengthen the dialogue.
in writing. ‒ based on our s&d values, i believe that the report on shareholders’ rights directive approved in the legal affairs committee with the support of our group, will improve economic stability, foster long-term shareholding and boost long-term investment. i support the idea that it is a necessary instrument in order to ensure more transparency in company management and in the activity of financial intermediaries. in particular, it sets the mechanism and the policy on directors’ remuneration with yearly reporting on its implementation. i would also like to welcome the importance of the report in fighting tax evasion and tax avoidance, and most importantly, the introduction of the country-by-country reporting obligation on taxes paid for large and listed companies. i would like to thank and praise the rapporteur sergio gaetano cofferati as well as the shadow rapporteurs for the great job done.
in writing. ‒ this is a very important file. the objectives of the revision of the shareholders’ rights directive are to improve stability and to boost long-term investment. the report introduces country-by-country reporting on taxes paid for large and listed companies. multinationals would have to break their information down by country of operation so that citizens and operations can see where large companies actually pay their taxes. it is our duty to fight against tax havens and for tax justice.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that will sustain greater involvement of shareholders in companies’ corporate governance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report and i deeply support the initiative to better encourage long-term shareholder engagement in their respective investments. their rights and influence in businesses and companies need to be properly safeguarded and new ways need to exist to ensure a better engagement of shareholders, at more market levels, in the major decisions of the companies they are invested in. this can only improve competition and development and should be seen as a positive step towards better financial and non-financial performance of companies!
in writing. tax transparency is one of the objectives taken on by the european parliament, including through this resolution. we need to get to a deeper level of integration when it comes to corporate taxation in europe. the right principle of international companies paying taxes where they make their profits can change the tax paradigm in europe. reporting at the level of each member state of profit made, subsidies received and taxes paid is essential to increase the quality of public information available to shareholders of large enterprises, public authorities and, not least, european citizens in the areas where corporations operate. corporate social responsibility must not remain an expression. it must become a way of operating for cross-border businesses that operate and make a profit in europe. i voted for this resolution because i am a supporter of fair taxation in europe and the elimination of tax fraud and evasion. i am convinced that transparency is a necessary but not sufficient step towards effective and fair taxation for all eu member states.
in writing. ‒ structural imbalances in the european carbon market have necessitated corrective action at the level of demand and supply, as without prompt intervention these imbalances will continue and deepen in the medium to long term. the revision of the emission allowance trading scheme to reduce the surplus accumulated to date entails a set of rules to address the shortcomings of emission allowances and to create a more fluid framework for their trading. the union must continue its policy of reducing carbon emissions as set out in the 2020 strategy. i voted in favour of this report because i am convinced that emission allowances are the main instrument for achieving the 30% reduction in carbon emissions by 2020.
in writing. ‒ the increase in the price of the certificate will have an effect on most industrial sectors in some member states which do not all have high-performing and carbon-efficient technologies. in such a situation, operators will have to buy allowances from the market to comply, as the allocation for the period 2013-2020 has been calculated on the basis of benchmarks established by the european commission on the basis of the 10% of the most carbon efficient installations in the eu in the period 2007-2008.
in writing. ‒ the emissions trading system needs urgently be fixed in order to address the surplus of emission allowances which has been building up in recent years. the economic crisis and the over-allocation of allowances have led to a significant destabilisation of the system. through the adoption of this report, we will promote low-carbon industrial innovation projects, we will compensate for indirect costs at union level, and we will have addressed the concerns of the industry. i strongly support the creation of the market stability reserve, since i believe it will send a strong signal to the markets and already begin to influence long-term investment decisions, avoiding costly mistakes and technology lock-in.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that will use a reformed emission trading system with an instrument to stabilise the market in line with the commission proposal to achieve the greenhouse gas reduction target.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the eu scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading, as it is against the interests of romania and romanian citizens. romania supported this mechanism in the form proposed by the commission, whereby the price was set automatically and transparently, and it was to enter into force in 2021. however, the amendments introduced in the negotiations between the european parliament and the council are contrary to the national interest and will affect all sectors of industry in romania by increasing the price of these certificates. the free allocation of these certificates to the top 10% of installations at eu level means that romanian industries, without strong financial resources and without state-of-the-art technologies, will have to buy them from the market at a very high price. in this respect, i supported romania's position in these negotiations and voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i regret the adoption of this report by the european parliament, given the negative impact on the mining and energy industry both in romania (energy complexes in the river valley, and beyond) and in the rest of central and eastern europe. through the measures proposed in this report, countries like romania risk being unable to support energy-intensive industries due to high co2 emissions. thousands of jobs are at stake. i will ask the european commission for support for the professional retraining of these people. once again, we risk having to deal with a europe divided in two!
in writing. ‒ the eu carbon market must be a fair system which does not disproportionately affect some member states. those countries with large tertiary sectors are less exposed to the effects of the ets, whilst countries like romania with an important manufacturing base face higher costs and usually have fewer resources to protect against carbon leakage. the existing compensation measures, including article 10c of the ets directive and the so-called ‘solidarity allowances’, are not enough if the carbon price is to be increased by withholding credits from the market. however, if harmonised compensation for indirect costs were to be introduced at eu level, a fairer system could be developed.
in writing. ‒ directives on minimum requirements for gradual implementation aiming at improving working conditions, the protection of workers where their employment contract is terminated, and information and consultation of workers and the working environment to protect workers’ health and safety must avoid imposing disproportionate costs and administrative and legal constraints in a way that would hold back the creation and development of small and medium-sized undertakings and family businesses, which are the drivers of sustainable and inclusive growth, and the source of 85% of all new jobs in the european union.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this commission proposal that seeks to improve working conditions for seafarers working on vessels flying the flag of one of the 28 eu member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i deeply believe the eu needs to allow for proper safeguards and regulatory protection measures for seafarers. this trade is one of the lifelines of europe, being a source of exponential prosperity generation, and the people involved in this need are a key professional base that needs the full support of the commission. i certainly hope the member states will do their best to quickly implement the new proposals to this directive.
in writing. ‒ the lack of harmonisation in the implementation of the 5 directives governing working conditions for seafarers in the maritime sector has generated unfair competition between member states and a lack of fairness towards workers in this sector. it is true that the specific nature of the maritime sector has made it difficult to find an umbrella solution, and i am pleased that, on the second attempt, we were able to reach agreement with the social partners on a framework governing working conditions for seafarers. i believe that improving working conditions will have a leverage effect: in addition to fulfilling our mission towards these workers, providing them with protection and an improved working environment, we are also succeeding in making the maritime sector more attractive to the workforce and increasing its competitiveness.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the request for consent submitted by the council, i voted in favour of the european parliament consent on the conclusion of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and european atomic energy community and the swiss confederation associating the swiss confederation to horizon 2020.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and european atomic energy community and the swiss confederation, regulating the swiss confederation’s participation in the iter activities carried out by fusion for energy.
mr president, the economic crisis has highlighted the weaknesses in the union's economy and we have learned that member states' economies and employment policies, jobs, are interdependent. the report on which i voted includes provisions relating to stimulating investment through structural reforms, combating poverty, promoting equal opportunities. it also makes reference to school dropout, the promotion of entrepreneurship among young people and the link between the labour market and education. these are measures which the commission must take into account when setting guidelines for employment policies in the member states.
in writing. ‒ the main objectives of the european employment strategy must be to combat unemployment, especially among young people, to ensure the safety of workers, to provide training in information technology and to adapt to new economic trends. member states should adopt common rules on economic and social policies and provide for a coordinated action plan to implement the employment strategy. the establishment of a coherent and adapted framework should take into account new benchmarks that have emerged and developed with technological progress and increased access to digital means. the digital economy holds significant employment potential through its ability to create new jobs that develop horizontally. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that only a common framework, undertaken by the 28 member states, is the answer to the success of the european employment strategy.
in writing. ‒ i believe that decisive, coordinated, ambitious, but above all effective strategic action is needed, both at union and national level, in accordance with the provisions of the treaty and the economic governance of the union, to develop small and medium-sized enterprises, micro-enterprises, innovative start-ups and companies that promote environmentally friendly jobs. those actions should also contain social protection measures, such as a guaranteed minimum income, to be introduced in accordance with national practices and aimed at combating extreme poverty and social exclusion.
in writing. ‒ it looks like europe’s job-rich recovery continues to fail to materialise. i strongly believe that quality job creation should be europe’s number one priority. this would allow european citizens to have a decent standard of living and contribute to their well-being and to a robust economy. i believe this is a very positive report as it includes several of our s&d key issues: sustainable and quality job creation; decent working conditions; decent living wages set up through collective bargaining; the fight against poverty; the importance of delivering eu2020 targets through the european semester; inclusive and rights-based labour markets with adequate social protection; reforms aiming at reducing inequalities and increasing the well-being of citizens; reducing labour market segmentation by tackling precarious employment, underemployment, undeclared labour and zero-hour contracts; ensuring quality employment for all in terms of socio-economic security, durability, adequate wages, rights at work, decent workplace conditions, social security protection, gender equality, education and training opportunities. this is why i believe that the review of europe 2020 must be used as an opportunity to put quality jobs at the centre of european policy.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report so that member states and the union can work together towards developing an effective and coordinated strategy for employment.
in writing. ‒ as unemployment is one of the major risks for the prosperity of our economies and social systems, i strongly supported this resolution. the amendments found within should act as a basis for legislative and financial reforms in member states, in particular towards creating more vocational and skill training resources available to unemployed citizens. education is key, as well as public-private partnerships which can contribute to active job creation and market growth.
in writing. ‒ as the greek crisis demonstrates so well, economic policies of member states are indeed a matter of common concern and now, more than ever, there is a strong need for intra-eu policy coordination. also, beside the common fiscal and macro-structural policy measures that are already well established in the eu legal framework, social and employment measures must be given similar emphasis. therefore i am hopeful that the streamlining of the european semester process, including the annual growth survey and the joint employment report, will see improved results in these areas. in particular, i am glad to see that education concerns were given strong emphasis in the last commission reports, as i believe that well designed and flexible education systems are essential in solving long-term structural unemployment and labour market mismatches – just as intelligent traineeship, vocational training and start-up support for youngsters help in fighting the youth unemployment plaguing europe today.
in writing. ‒ european unemployment is shaking the union's economic future with at least gloomy forecasts. employment, poverty reduction, and the development of social services and benefits are objectives for which we must continue to invest in the eu. the lack of equal opportunities in europe is a lingering effect of the economic and financial crisis, but also a challenge for the europe of the future. therefore, the europe 2020 targets must be met, including the minimum employment rate of 75%. a social europe is a system that takes care of vulnerable groups by including them in education systems coordinated with the labour market and, in particular, with the sme market. at the beginning of 2015, there were almost 24 million unemployed people in europe. unemployment creates poverty and we see more and more statistics, which are incomplete, that put about 20 million europeans below the poverty line. what we need to do: increase the inclusion of vulnerable groups, increase the efficiency of social services and benefits and reduce absolute poverty in the eu. this explanation of vote is in fact a plea for firm measures to combat poverty in europe, for the future of europeans who are today deprived of equal opportunities in education, development and employment.
in writing. ‒ under the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the council is required to adopt the broad economic policy guidelines and the broad employment guidelines. the broad economic policy guidelines remain in force for an indefinite period, while the employment policy guidelines have to be drawn up annually. the european parliament supports the adoption of ambitious and precise targets, but for them to be implemented by the member states through clear measures, in partnership with all national, regional and local authorities, in close association with parliaments, as well as with the social partners and representatives of civil society. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by major structural changes in the structure of world trade. the major changes in the market of the electrical and electronic equipment industry over the last 15 years have led to a shift to asia where manufacturing costs are much lower than in europe. although the production of electronics in asian countries has led to a significant drop in prices, including on eu markets, the negative effects of these transformations have not been unexpected, with many eu factories and firms having in recent years either had to move their operations to asia or have closed down their entire business in the field, which has unfortunately led to massive redundancies. finland is currently one of the worst affected countries in the eu in terms of redundancies in the electronics industry. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the european globalisation adjustment fund should be mobilised to support the 500 former broadcom employees made redundant following the recent closure of the company with a view to their reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund has been created in order to provide additional assistance to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. the union’s financial assistance to workers made redundant should be dynamic and made available as quickly and efficiently as possible. the application by finland fulfils the eligibility criteria set up by the egf regulation. the enterprise surveys and visits are actions which may benefit not only dismissed workers covered by this application, but may also contribute to building knowledge about employment issues within this sector for future redundancies.
in writing. – i have voted for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to support the reintegration in the labour market of workers made redundant in the broadcom company that is closing down all its activities in finland.
in writing. ‒ the effect of the inclusion of the european fund for strategic investment (efsi) in the draft budget for 2016 on horizon 2020 and the connecting europe facility (cef) shall be minimized to the largest possible extent. a concentration of cuts in horizon 2020 and cef during the budgetary years 2016-2018, as proposed by the commission, needs to be avoided. the funding of the youth employment initiative (yei) is a key tool for the fight against youth unemployment in the european union and needs to be increased and secured as from eu budget 2016. moreover, the report includes a call for reinforcements in the area of external aid programmes, in particular for the assistance to palestine and to unrwa, and humanitarian aid. considering the fact that this draft report includes all key points put forward by our group, i voted in favour of its approval.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the budget – mandate for the trilogue report so that the commission will assess the 2016 payment needs for the 2014-2020 programmes in the 2016 draft budget.
in writing. ‒ in may 2015, the commission presented the eu draft budget for 2016. in its proposal, the commission puts forward eur 153.5 billion in commitment appropriations (+2,4% compared to eu budget 2015) and eur 143.5 billion in payment appropriations (+1,6% compared to last year’s budget). the current report, which i voted in favour of, asks for the following key points: 1. minimising, to the largest extent, the effect of financing the efsi guarantee fund by the 2016 draft budget. cuts in horizon 2020 and cef for the guarantee fund shall be further redistributed via negotiations on the annual eu budgets, starting from eu budget 2016. 2. increasing the funding of the youth employment initiative (yei) to fight the high rates of unemployment among young people. 3. securing a long-term perspective in the payment plan. 4. providing extra funding in 2016 to respond to the challenges posed by migration and asylum seekers trends. 5. reinforcing external aid programmes, in particular for unrwa, and humanitarian aid. with the approval of the report by the parliament, we give the ep delegation a mandate for trilogue with the council and the commission.
in writing. ‒ up to 20 million jobs could be created by 2020 thanks to the 'green economy' initiative. the definition of the concept of 'green jobs' has created a current of contradictions at european level, especially in the attempt to use this concept for statistical purposes. a 'green' job is a decent job that has the potential to reduce energy and raw material consumption, limit greenhouse gas emissions, minimise waste and pollution, and protect and restore ecosystems. i voted for this report because we need a comprehensive response to ensure that we can maintain and expand employment opportunities and green job creation. time is a key factor, as we are missing opportunities and failing to provide our workforce with all the skills needed to tackle the challenges we already face. the commission's communication provides some answers, but it will take all the eu institutions to play their part in order to really achieve this necessary transition to a greener economy.
in writing. ‒ the europe 2020 strategy is the eu's flagship policy, where the objective of sustainable growth goes beyond climate change and covers a wider range of issues, aiming to transform the eu economy into a smart, green economy. as the creation of green jobs for women will strengthen efforts to achieve the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy, i am convinced that there is a need and a need to promote women's entrepreneurship in the green economy, with a focus on more cooperative business models such as cooperatives and social enterprises, but also paying attention to women farmers and family farms, access to microfinance for women, the creation of green jobs in public services and pilot projects on quality criteria related to gender dimension for enterprises in the context of public procurement.
in writing. ‒ i believe it is very important to outline the employment challenges and opportunities of the current transition towards a green, low-carbon, energy and resource-efficient economy. the green employment initiative communication presents an integrated framework to allow labour market and skill policies to play an active role to support this transition and focuses on the importance of anticipating and establishing adequate skills policies to support workers in coping with structural change, of securing labour market transitions, and of strengthening governance and partnership-based initiatives. this is a positive report which supports the commission approach regarding the transition towards a greener economy.
in writing. ‒ the commission’s green employment initiative was published in july 2014, together with the green action plan for smes. i have voted for this report to support jobs that reduce consumption of energy and raw materials, limit greenhouse gas emissions, minimise waste and pollution, and protect and restore ecosystems.
in writing. ‒ every crisis is also an opportunity for society to rethink the way it organises production. the green economy is one of the sustainable alternatives for boosting economic growth in the european union. this may also lead to the creation of new jobs for european citizens. in the context of structural changes in the labour market, support is needed for the re-skilling of citizens to acquire the skills needed in the new type of economy. at the same time, this type of economy can be supported by measures to strengthen environmental criteria in public procurement and lower taxes for green businesses. the promotion of the green jobs initiative and the green sme action plan by the european commission over the past year has been an important element in developing this sector, limiting fossil fuel consumption and making it more resource efficient. however, these documents are only the beginning of a coherent investment policy to create sustainable jobs in the green economy and support smes in this sector. the present report is a decisive new step in this direction and its adoption will create the conditions for a positive development towards sustainable economic growth within the union.
in writing. ‒ as global warming and biodiversity loss reach limits beyond which irreversible effects on our societies and the natural environment cannot be avoided, the exploitation of the green economy for jobs is emerging as a source of hope for improving human well-being and social equity. moreover, the development of new technologies, new less polluting sectors, renewable energies and new modes of production can represent a potential for economic growth in europe and worldwide. in this scenario, i consider that the transition to a green economy can have the effect of creating new jobs, as sustainable economic activities involve more labour than those they replace. moreover, waste prevention, ecodesign and reuse could generate net savings of €600 billion or 8% of annual turnover for eu businesses, while reducing annual greenhouse gas emissions by 2-4%. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the report on the green jobs initiative.
mr president, the commission must as a matter of priority set out an ambitious action plan to support developing countries in the fight against tax evasion, in the establishment of fair, balanced and transparent tax systems. information on beneficial owners of companies and other institutions must be made public and in a format accessible to all. we also need an international definition of tax havens. we need sanctions for operators that use these tax havens and the creation of a blacklist of those countries. the commission's revised 2015 tax avoidance plan is good, but member states need to agree on a consolidated, common corporate tax base.
in writing. ‒ domestic resources are and will remain the most important source of finance for developing countries as well as for developed countries. although the level of these resources as a percentage of gdp has increased over the last decade, the average share of taxes and duties in gdp in developing countries is still too low, leading to basic services of far too low quality for their citizens, and to an increasing financial dependence on international aid from the eu and other international donors. the share of taxes and duties in gdp in low-income countries is between 10% and 20%, and in many of these countries it is below 15% (this is generally considered to be the minimum threshold below which governments can finance their basic functions and services). i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the internal tax collection process needs to become more predictable, more transparent, more stable and better managed.
in writing. ‒ trade, the informal nature of the economy, together with political, administrative and economic constraints, are an obstacle to revenue mobilisation, particularly in developing countries. domestic resources are and will remain the most important source of financing for developing countries. the loss of tax revenue can be exacerbated by tax treaties, a key component of international tax law. the oecd-proposed and g20-approved base erosion and profit shifting (beps) action plan seeks to redefine international tax rules in order to combat profit shifting practices and ensure that companies pay taxes where their economic activity takes place and where economic value is created. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that an action plan to combat tax evasion and tax fraud in developing countries is needed.
in writing. ‒ there is a considerable potential to increase tax collection in developing countries, which right now, in comparative prospective, raise substantially less revenues than advanced economies. i strongly believe that domestic resource mobilisation is key to achieve the new sustainable development goals and at a time when oda is not sufficient in that regard. better tax justice will help reduce inequalities and eradicate poverty, while also bringing an end to tax havens for multinational companies, including european companies. i welcome the recommendations included in the report, such as the importance of strengthening financial and technical assistance to developing countries and regional tax administration frameworks; the adoption of strong solutions to enhance transparency and cooperation in the fight against tax dodging, such as an automatic exchange of information mechanism and country-by-country reporting, taking into consideration developing countries’ needs and constraints; the conducting at eu and member states’ level of an impact assessment of tax policies on developing countries; the preservation of source countries’ taxation rights when negotiating tax treaties, and the creation of a truly intergovernmental body where developing countries could participate on an equal footing in the global reform of existing international tax rules. i thank the rapporteur elly schlein and the shadows for the great job done.
in writing. ‒ the commission should take concrete measures to support developing countries and regional tax administration frameworks. listed or unlisted multinational companies of all countries and sectors must adopt country-by-country reporting (cbcr) as a standard. they should publish as part of their annual reporting and on a country-by-country basis for each territory in which they operate. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that tackles the need for an action plan in the fight against tax avoidance and tax evasion in developing countries.
in writing. ‒ the european union is the most important source of development aid to the world's poorest countries. this is rooted in the principle of solidarity, which is at the foundation of the union and which is also applied in its relations with developing countries. however, development aid often misses its target because of the inconsistency of the tax and tax systems in these countries, which stimulate the underground economy, corruption, tax evasion, organized crime. some states don't even have tax systems, providing tax havens for laundering black money from developed economies or for exploiting their mineral resources. the legitimacy of their governments is very fragile because they don't fulfill this side of the social contract that is supposed to bind them to their citizens and that translates into using public funds to provide public goods and services. in these circumstances, the european union, which has more experience in this field, can help combat tax evasion in developing countries. this would contribute both to the sustainable development of those countries and to combating negative phenomena that feed into the lack of a tax system, such as terrorism, piracy and the illegal trafficking of goods and persons.
in writing. ‒ resource efficiency is of paramount importance in the current european and international context. europe depends on imported resources more than any other region in the world, as over 40% of all materials used in the eu come from imports. increasing the efficiency of resource use by using them in a more coherent way would reduce dependency, both in terms of costs and human security. according to the european commission estimates, an annual increase of 2% in resource productivity by 2030 would create two million new jobs in the eu. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that we can increase europe's competitiveness and reindustrialisation and raise living standards only by decoupling economic growth from resource use and thus making the transition to a more circular economy.
in writing. ‒ europe is more dependent on imported resources than any other region in the world, and a move towards a circular economy would reduce this level of resource dependency and raw material costs. in addition, new businesses and jobs would be created in europe, all of which would be a way of increasing resource efficiency. financial statements, accounting rules and integrated reporting should better take into account the systemic risks posed by environmental degradation, overuse of resources and short-term market trends and therefore a new and clear policy framework is needed to enable private and institutional investors to shift their investment paradigm towards sustainable investments. i voted in favour of the report because current policies do not sufficiently focus efforts on this paradigm shift, locking europe into a system where valuable materials, many of them with high environmental and social costs, end up in landfills or incineration.
in writing. ‒ in a circular economy model, existing materials and products are continuously re-used, repaired, re-furbished and recycled, and thus the waste quantities are minimised. moving towards a circular economy is essential to deliver on the resource efficiency agenda, which can bring major economic benefits. the transition to a circular economy requires changes throughout value chains, covering product design, manufacturing, marketing and consumer behaviour, and the involvement of all relevant stakeholders. the committee report as adopted in the envi committee sends an ambitious signal to the commission with the aim of guiding the ongoing work on the new waste package which is expected by the end of 2015. implementing a circular economy model responds to key policy challenges in the eu such as jobs and growth, innovation, the re-industrialisation agenda, and an intelligent use of resources.
in writing. – today’s unsustainable use of resources is both causing environmental damage and posing an economic risk. the global economy uses the equivalent of 1.5 planets’ worth of resources, thus i have voted for this report to improve resource efficiency that will benefit our economy and security.
in writing. ‒ the optimisation of resource management is something i am very much in favour of so i supported this report. there is a wide variety of resources in europe which are either scarce, or not present at all, and what we do have, we certainly need to use better, for a longer term. a circular economy in this sense should be a major medium- to long-term sustainability target for all the member states and the commission, in all available areas. from fisheries to natural resources and manufacturing, from flora and fauna resources, all should be exploited in such a way so as to create even further benefit in the long run. and this is not simply about recycling and the jobs associated with that, but about many other products and their lifespans, their production and post-usage cycles. i believe all national governments should adopt this term for themselves very soon.
in writing. ‒ i voted 'for' because all the studies and expert opinions i have had access to indicate that this legislative package can transform europe's economy into a sustainable system and will lead to new jobs, especially among young people. i also believe that more attention needs to be paid to regions and workforces negatively affected by the transition to a circular economy, such as the approximately 350 000 jobs in europe's mining industry. the european commission needs to work with the social partners to create solidarity mechanisms such as financial compensation, retraining and retraining for this workforce.
in writing. ‒ a transition to a circular economy, with greater emphasis on reuse and recycling, would relieve pressure on finite resources and create opportunities and employment in the expanding reuse and recycling industries. it would also reduce european dependence on imported resources and energy. to bring about the changes in consumption patterns necessary to create a circular economy, significant modifications will need to be made on many levels, including product design, manufacturing, marketing, and consumer behaviour. these changes will need to be encouraged by the right legislative framework. i urge the commission to take note of parliament’s recommendations, especially on the issues of landfill, green public procurement, biomass, and eu financial support for greater resource efficiency.
in writing. ‒ we are on the verge of changing the way we approach the use of natural resources and the traditional economic model. without compromising the living standards and well-being of citizens, we have the opportunity to revolutionise the framework for natural resources policies and support the reindustrialisation of the european union, decoupling it from the irresponsible use of raw materials. the political signal given by the vote on it will create the leverage needed to steer investment towards job creation and the generation of new business models. a resource-efficient economy is a cost-optimized economy, one based on redistribution and solidarity. i welcome proposals to develop indicators on resource use, optimisation of supply chains and prioritisation of waste, which will have a considerable impact on ecodesign. the creation of product passports will increase responsible production by producers and consumer confidence. the industrial symbiosis generated by this communication will contribute to increasing the global competitiveness of our companies and to economic independence from those raw materials that come from high geopolitical risk areas, without which the digital economy loses its momentum.
in writing. ‒ irresponsible use of resources can be a danger to the environment, leading to climate change, decline in biodiversity, loss of diversity and deterioration of ecosystem services. in a context where europe depends on important resources that will be depleted in a relatively short period of time, and where the global economy uses the resources of one and a half planets for the production and absorption of waste, i believe that a swift transition to a circular economy is needed. it is an economic concept closely linked to sustainable development and whose objective is to produce goods and services while limiting the negligent consumption of raw materials, water and energy sources. to avoid an economic and environmental impasse in europe and globally, we need to increase resource efficiency, which means moving away from the current linear economy, perfectly characterised by the phrase 'use-produce-consume-throw-away'. furthermore, they argue that special attention must be paid to spatial planning and transport solutions in order to build a sustainable society.
in writing. ‒ the unfortunate events at chernobyl and fukushima, which claimed thousands of lives and left a black mark on human history, must serve as a reference point for the european union and the entire international spectrum in relation to future action in the event of a nuclear accident or other radiological emergency. the european union has a duty to have and to ensure up-to-date legal instruments, including flexible decision-making procedures adapted to each situation, to deal with post-nuclear-accident-type situations. that is why i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a council regulation laying down maximum permitted levels of radioactive contamination of food and feed following a nuclear accident or any other radiological emergency, because i believe that the european union must be prepared to prevent such extremely unfortunate situations, which endanger the lives of its citizens.
in writing. ‒ it is absolutely important to have legal instruments that include flexible, incident-specific decision-making procedures to address situations like those that occurred in the wake of the accidents at chernobyl and fukushima. i welcome the inclusion in the report of the referral to the need of consultation with independent experts when reviewing maximum levels. moreover, full information must be made immediately available to the general public. food safety is the ultimate objective of the council regulation: therefore i strongly support that the change of the legal base of the lisbon treaty is appropriate to give the european parliament an appropriate say in the protection of public health, in line with its co-legislative role.
in writing. – i have voted for this report because the european union needs up-to-date legal instruments that include flexible and specific decision-making procedures to address situations like those that occurred in the wake of the accidents at chernobyl and fukushima.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as i believe this document did not meet the level of expertise needed for it to pass a plenary vote in the european parliament. it lacked an adequate amount of guarantees supporting its conclusions, the basis of its findings is not clear enough and its opinions are not truly endorsed by many key partners, for example euratom.
in writing. ‒ i fully support the decision of the rapporteur and shadow rapporteurs to change the legal basis to allow for the full involvement of the european parliament in this legislation. it is vital that parliament can exercise its full co-decision powers on an issue which has such great implications for human health. this change in legal basis allows parliament to make important changes to the text which will improve safety standards and increase transparency.
in writing. ‒ nuclear accidents are a danger to the safety and security of european citizens. it is not that long since 1986, when the chernobyl plant created one of the worst nuclear accidents in history, and the echoes of this tragedy must not fade, precisely to help us be better prepared and prevent such situations. the nuclear event response procedures need to be continuously updated. i therefore believe that both prevention measures and response plans in the event of a nuclear event must take into account the long-term effects on food and food safety. the safety of european consumers depends on the prompt application of reaction procedures to any nuclear event, but also on the continuous analysis and assessment of radioactivity levels for food and feed by experts in the field. in the same context, they agree that this analysis should also be carried out for food originating from areas other than the european one, in order to ensure the safety and security of european consumers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the creation of a capital markets union. to remain competitive and attractive on the international market, the european union needs a deep approach to capital markets and, not least, it needs to take account of developments in capital markets at international level. the european union is also defined by the diversity of member states' business models and financial markets, which can be turned into assets and which deserve to be protected at european level. i believe that through flexible legislation, which takes account of the needs of each member state individually, but also of the european union as a whole, the major obstacles to investment and investors will disappear and the eu will undoubtedly strengthen its position on the international market.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support this report, representing the ep’s input into the green book of the european commission. the capital markets union can play a full part in financing economic recovery in the eu through deepening and broadening eu capital markets, alongside bank finance. i welcome the introduction of our main priorities in the report, which lay at the core of our social-democratic values, namely capital markets to finance long-term investment, the real economy and especially smes. i support the importance of developing the european capital markets to diversify funding and improve access to financing, restoring also the stability of the banking sector. we succeeded in improving the text, by defeating many amendments which aimed at making the cmu a deregulatory agenda for the financial markets; the text now clearly refers to the need for legislative action. in this sense, i am strongly in favour of the review of legislation in order to the ensure highest investor protection standards and the need to address taxation of capital markets because it might represent an obstacle, despite the opportunities offered by a well-designed eu capital market. i would like to thank the rapporteur, and shadow rapporteurs, for their approach.
in writing. – i have voted for this resolution to improve access to capital markets through new sources of funding.
in writing. ‒ i support creating a genuine and truly european capital markets union and this document represents a good step in that direction. europe needs to find more means to ensure a stable and growing economy, with a particular european flavour to it, as the report duly notes. a capital markets union could have a very positive impact on cross-border finance, including on savings or financing, as well as the development of smes and joint ventures. still, it will need adequate studies and proper expertise for its implementation, and we need to ensure a lot more transparency and a level playing field of companies from different member states.
in writing. ‒ the financial trends of the past year have shown that investment in the real economy in europe has relatively declined over several decades, despite a large increase in the size of the european and global financial sector over the same period. in order to improve the efficiency of markets and ensure a fair, adequate and economically sound risk-return relationship in eu capital, a european capital market union is needed. such a union will provide better access for european businesses and smes to financing, increasing and diversifying the sources of funding and making the market more effective both within member states and cross-border. the final text, which i voted in favour of today, includes several of the s&d priorities to achieving our goal. mainly: using capital markets for financing long-term investment and the real economy; making the capital market union a deregulatory agenda for the financial markets; reviewing legislation to ensure highest investor protection standards and addressing taxation of capital markets. a harmonised, pro-european approach that takes into consideration the different economic and cultural composition of the national financial sectors, is a constructive way to address the financial difficulties we are facing today.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the creation of a capital markets union, considering that it is necessary to improve access to capital markets through new sources of financing. the rapporteur's concern is welcome, as he pointed out in the resolution adopted by the ep plenary that reducing the fragmentation of capital markets could lead to lower capital costs, while improving their distribution, and could thus support the development of enterprises, in particular smes, and job creation in the eu. the resolution stresses that improving financing conditions for businesses in europe must be based on strengthened economic and financial stability, which includes the implementation of reforms in all member states. it is also stated that imperfect capital markets have led to an erroneous assessment of risks and a disconnect between the earnings sought and the actual risks assumed, which has made the markets very unfair to entities such as smes.
in writing. ‒ terrorism, radicalisation, organised and cybercrime are the biggest threats to europe today, endangering citizens' lives by limiting security, fundamental freedoms and human rights. given that the post-cold war world is a globalised one, characterised by a high degree of interdependence, which makes it impossible to avoid affecting other states in one way or another, and also in the context of the current conflict in ukraine, the instability of the european union can be a real issue to alert eu member states to the prospect of strengthening security. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the european agenda on security because i believe that the development of a roadmap in this area will exponentially increase operational cooperation on internal security and protect the fundamental rights and freedoms of european citizens, which cannot be infringed under any circumstances.
in writing. ‒ following the european commission’s communication on the european security agenda for 2015-2020, i support the key priorities formulated by the commission as fundamentals to strengthen member states’ cooperation in tackling security threats and increase the common efforts in the fight against terrorism, organised crime and cybercrime. i consider that, in view of the challenges the european union is currently facing, these are the most serious issues which require coordinated actions at union level in full respect of human rights and citizens’ rights. i strongly welcome the libe resolution to the plenary, which has adopted our s&d line, namely the full compliance with fundamental rights, more transparency, accountability and democratic control, better application and implementation of existing legal instruments, a more joined-up inter-agency and cross-sectoral approach, and a greater link between the internal and external dimensions of security. in line with the resolution, i call on the commission and on the council to establish a roadmap of the agenda’s implementation in which to comply with them.
in writing. – i have voted for this for resolution to support the commission’s proposal of the european agenda on security for the 2015-2020 period.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution and i can only say i hope this new agenda will be used properly by the member states. it is a very fine line the eu and its members need to walk. a fine balance between adequate security and control measures and between not endangering private freedoms, human rights and trust between states and citizens. the data protection component is important, but also the tools needed to fight various threats, from organised crime, including cyber crimes, as well as all the other conventional risks.
in writing. ‒ threats to european security have recently diversified and multiplied, taking new forms such as hybrid warfare, asymmetrical conflicts and unconventional weapons. terrorist threats, cybercrime, social tensions and racial violence have also increased. these negative phenomena require a coordinated response from the european union to ensure the security of all member states by adopting common standards in this field. the european commission has identified three key responses to the challenges for 2015-2020: preventing terrorism and countering radicalisation, fighting organised crime and tackling cybercrime. the european parliament, in its turn, must provide solutions to these problems as the representative forum of european citizens. this can identify more nuanced remedies to security threats, such as decision-making transparency, democratic control, information sharing and the use of databases, eliminating the confusion between islam, terrorism and migrants, promoting religious tolerance, supporting the security industry. in this respect, i support the adoption of the resolution on the european agenda on security, which is a necessary document both for the debate in this area and for ensuring the real security of the member states.
in writing. security is a fundamental right under the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and is currently under serious threat. the resolution on the european agenda on security was adopted today in the ep plenary. i voted against this resolution because the amendments tabled and voted on by some political groups distort the vision of the initiators and can undermine an effective eu common security policy. the report presented by the european parliament presents the ep's view on the management of risks and threats to our security, from the terrorist threat to cybercrime, but unfortunately with some ambiguities and elements likely to create confusion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the situation in yemen. when it comes to human rights violations, violence and security limitations, it is welcome that the european union intervenes and reaffirms its firm commitment and determination to address the threat posed by extremist and terrorist groups, which in this case endanger the lives of yemeni citizens. the european union advocates the resolution of conflicts through dialogue and negotiation, rather than through acts of violence, abuse and the use of weapons. the current situation in yemen is all the more serious in view of the limited humanitarian and medical assistance that the population urgently needs. the denial of the right to liberty and health care is the worst abuse a citizen can suffer. the situation in yemen should continue to be monitored by the commission, the council and the parliament, as well as by all international bodies with the power to prevent and punish such abuses.
in writing. ‒ the current crisis in yemen is the result of the failure of successive governments to respond to the legitimate aspirations of the yemeni people for democracy, economic and social development, stability and security. all parties to the conflict must agree to a humanitarian pause, especially during the current ramadan, to allow aid to reach the people in need (13 million people in yemen face a food security crisis and over 9 million have little or no access to water). at the same time, this pause is necessary to be used as a first step towards a ceasefire that prepares the ground for a sustainable political solution. it is essential that all parties involved respect their obligations under international humanitarian and human rights law and allow unrestricted access to humanitarian workers so that immediate assistance can be provided to those in need. efforts must be made to resolve differences through dialogue, compromise and power-sharing leading to the formation of a government of national unity with the aim of restoring peace, avoiding economic and financial collapse and addressing the humanitarian crisis.
in writing. ‒ yemen is in the grip of its most severe crisis in years, caused mainly by conflicts on underlying problems of unequal access to power and resources. the recent developments carry grave risks for the stability of the horn of africa, the red sea and the wider middle east region. i am seriously concerned about the rapidly deteriorating political, security and humanitarian situation in yemen; it can greatly exacerbate regional tensions and increase the possibility of a large-scale war in the area. according to the who’s latest figures, we are more than entitled to worry over the situation in yemen. the unnecessary loss of lives cannot go on. we need to engage constructively with the yemeni parties in order to enable the de-escalation of the crisis and support and encourage by all means the negotiations taking place. i welcome the efforts made by the un and i highlight the need for coordinated humanitarian action to contribute to the un’s revised humanitarian appeal. i strongly believe that only a broad political consensus among the parties through inclusive negotiations can provide a sustainable solution, restore peace, and preserve the unity, sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of yemen.
in writing. – i have voted for this resolution that shows its support for the people of yemen.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the security challenges in the middle east and north africa region and the prospects for political stability. countries such as syria, iraq, yemen and libya and the growing tensions in the middle east and north africa are major sources of regional destabilisation, endangering at all times the security and the right to life of the citizens of these areas. when it comes to human rights violations, violence and security limitations, it is welcome that the european union intervenes and reaffirms its firm commitment and determination to address the threat posed by groups that use ethnic and religious causes as a tool for pursuing political and power stakes. the european union advocates the resolution of conflicts through dialogue and negotiation, rather than through acts of violence, abuse and the use of weapons. the governments of these states must respect basic human rights and political freedoms, stop the systematic arrest of peaceful protesters and activists, and uphold the right to a fair trial. i also believe that all international bodies with the power to prevent and punish such abuses must be vigilant against any attempt to infringe the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens.
in writing. ‒ i would like to congratulate the rapporteur for the work done on the consensual outcome of the report. i am very pleased that it covers the most important issues related to the middle east and north africa region: high priority given to the fight against isis and extremist groups, the need for the eu to step up support for the political transition in tunisia, and the support of the development of civil societies in mena countries. i also support and agree with the need for an inclusive security environment, taking into account all sides’ legitimate concerns. i consider important the balance achieved on the israel-palestine issue. it underlines the ep’s position on the need for a political and peaceful transition to put an end to the civil war in syria. and i welcome the highlighting of the lausanne framework agreement’s role in ensuring an exclusively peaceful nature of iran’s nuclear programme in exchange for iran’s re-integration into the international community. i strongly share the hope that a final agreement can be achieved on iran’s nuclear programme.
in writing. ‒ i endorse this report with regard to the eu exerting a positive influence on the mena countries, not only on the basis of economic cooperation but also through political and strategic partnerships. it is clear that the eu’s aid to mena states has been fragmented and slow-paced, which has allowed the interference of terrorist groups even in tunisia, a country with an exceptional record of democratic reform. thus, it is of paramount importance to combat isis and other terrorist organisations by stepping up pressure on authoritarian regimes and developing cooperation with parties in the region.
in writing. – i have voted for this report that will address the root causes of the rapidly deteriorating situations across the middle east and north africa region.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it analyses in a very fair and complex way the events and changes in the middle east and north africa. it is very important that the eu adapts and responds to these new challenges in a coordinated and integrated way, which includes both directly tackling terrorism and the causes of its radicalisation. i think it's extremely important that we try to understand the causes of this radicalization and help to combat those causes. in this regard, the states of the region must be helped and supported to stabilise themselves both politically and economically. at the level of security, authorities should be assisted and supported in developing counter-terrorism capabilities. without a holistic approach, all these threats to eu security will not be able to be tackled.
in writing. ‒ i very much welcome this comprehensive report on the situation in the mena region (middle east and north africa). especially the emphasis on vulnerable communities, in particular religious and ethnic minorities, is to be welcomed. i would like to use this occasion once again to demonstrate a basic fact in today’s world: societies that treat their minorities with respect and appreciation tend to flourish on societal, cultural, political, security and economic levels. it is a pity that this dynamic only becomes clear when the opposite is happening, that is when societies collapse and minorities become the first victims of exploitation, persecution and inhumane treatment. it is therefore high time for the european union and other international actors to be conscious of this fact, and to work both inside and outside the union on achieving inclusive, cohesive and robust societies that are less prone to become victims of disintegration, terrorism and absolute despair, as is the case now in many countries in the mena region.
in writing. ‒ the military conflicts in syria, iraq, yemen and libya, the terrorist attacks in tunisia and egypt and other internal conflicts in the middle east and north africa pose a threat to the security of the european union and its member states. the arab spring created the illusion of the possibility of democratization in this region of the european neighbourhood. instead, we are now facing a resurgence of terrorism and the rise of the islamic state, a propagator of extreme violence against every vestige of humanity. military action against the islamic state is justified and must be supported by the european union. however, particular attention should also be paid to dialogue between the various factions within the respective nations. the dialogue shall also cover the relationship between israel and the palestinian authority, iran and saudi arabia, and the iranian nuclear programme. without the cooperation of all the democratic forces in the region, a sustainable democratic development of these states cannot be envisaged. cooperation between the eu and these countries in the fields of economy, trade, transport, education, culture, human rights, civil society, including through the union for the mediterranean, is likely to contribute to the normalisation of the situation. for these reasons, i support the present report as the first phase of an increased union involvement in enhancing security in this hotspot region.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the security challenges in the middle east and north africa region and the prospects for political stability, as the growing conflicts and tensions in the middle east and north africa represent a source of destabilisation in the region and a major risk to european security, citizens and the interests of the european union. the events in these regions have led to a humanitarian crisis, with serious human rights violations. i believe that, in the face of these threats, stabilising the region is not only a security issue, but also an economic, political and social one. in these circumstances, the european union and its member states must develop policies adapted to these risks and develop strategic cooperation with actors in the region in an attempt to combat the threats. moreover, i believe that one of the main causes of instability in the region is the lack of democracy, as respect for human rights and democratic principles is the most important protection against recurrent threats. an important task of the european union and its member states is therefore to support the democratic aspirations of these regions, in particular by disseminating and explaining fundamental civic values.
mr. president, the russian federation is supplying arms to eastern ukraine. he has russian military bases in armenia, moldova, ukraine. the russian federation funds extremist parties, it funds corruption, because a corrupt state is much easier to conquer and much easier to subdue. everything the russian federation does is to destabilize democracy in the region, to destabilize the region itself, to destabilize the european union. let us have a common and firm action! let's end this financial involvement because we have a way to do it and we speak with one voice! but his voice must not be weak, must not be feeble. let her be strong! also in the eastern partnership we have many countries at various levels of development and relations with the russian federation. we have to approach them differently, depending on the country and depending on the region.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the review of the european neighbourhood policy because i believe that the neighbourhood policy has the role of deepening and intensifying cooperation in partnerships between the european union and its neighbouring countries, with the aim of developing an area of stability, security and common prosperity. given the security and stability challenges faced by many countries on the eu's borders, the neighbourhood policy review comes to the aid of partner countries by providing support for economic, social transformation and regional cooperation. by reviewing the european neighbourhood policy, the european union reiterates in practice its support for the sovereignty, territorial integrity and political independence of partner countries and underlines the need to actively promote and assist in the peaceful resolution of conflicts and to contribute to post-conflict reconciliation policies in the eu's neighbourhood. the revised version of this policy must be based on mutual accountability and a common commitment to eu values and principles, including democracy, the rule of law, human rights, as much of the neighbouring territories are still affected by armed or frozen conflicts and crises.
in writing. ‒ the report welcomes the initiative of the review of the european neighbourhood policy as timely and necessary and insists that the reviewed enp must be more politically driven, strategic, flexible/focused/differentiated, and coherent with the eu’s values, principles and interests. i welcome the fact that the report takes on board and highlights the social dimension of the enp, the need to fight against poverty and discrimination, and to promote human and women’s rights. moreover, i support the review process and i would like to highlight the need to make it more strategic, efficient and flexible, always respecting the core values on which the eu is founded. the enp should not be a bureaucratic process but a politically-driven one serving the purposes of peace and stability in the neighbourhood but also promoting democracy and the respect of human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i am a firm believer that europe needs stability, security and prosperity as a result of the european neighbourhood policy (enp). some regions are affected by armed or frozen conflicts and crises which have caused economic, social and political instability in the neighbourhood. the eu should take further action in finding peaceful resolutions for existing conflicts and the enp must be reshaped to adapt adequately to rapidly changing and challenging circumstances.
in writing. – i have voted for this report for a revised european neighbourhood policy that should be able to provide a quick, flexible and adequate response to the situation on the ground, while also putting forward an ambitious strategic vision for developing relations with the neighbouring countries in both a bilateral and a multilateral framework, in line with the commitment to promote the core values on which the european neighbourhood policy is based.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe it has succeeded in highlighting the urgency with which the european neighbourhood policy needs to be revised. conflicts and events in the east and south of the eu have brought new challenges to foreign policy, and the european neighbourhood policy, as its key instrument, needs to be revised to meet these challenges. it is very important that this review brings more vision, faster response and increased flexibility for the eu in addressing new realities.
in writing. ‒ i agree with one of the main conclusions of my colleague eduard kukan's report: the european union's neighbourhood policy needs a differentiated approach and a tailor-made policy. we must recognize that the situation in the countries concerned is very different, and we must adapt to it and not be too rigid. i also welcome the fact that the report suggests that the current political dialogue should be transcended and extended to a much more complex and comprehensive social, economic and cultural dialogue, embracing all elements of the political, social, ethnic and cultural diversity of the partner countries, by strengthening the direct role of local authorities. most importantly, we must not only strengthen links between institutions but also encourage direct contacts between people, because neighbourhood policy is about strengthening links not only between countries and their leaders, but also between societies and local communities.
in writing. ‒ the european union's relationship with its eastern and southern neighbours is an essential component of the union's foreign and security policy. the european neighbourhood policy has been one of the tools for improving the eu's relations with its neighbours, but it has become insufficient in the context of developments in the targeted states. in this regard, the present report proposes a reshaping of the neighbourhood policy to take account of the differences in approach between the southern and eastern sides and to place greater emphasis on supporting democracy, the rule of law, good governance, institutional capacity, ethnic and religious tolerance, strengthening civil society, security cooperation, supporting regional integration, and resolving internal or frozen conflicts. at the same time, countries that so wish can conclude association agreements with the european union and should be able to become candidates for accession to the union provided they fulfil the convergence conditions. realising the full potential of the neighbourhood policy depends, however, on how we succeed in promoting european democratic values in these countries. i believe that this report is a step forward in this direction and deserves to be adopted by the european parliament.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the review of the european neighbourhood policy, which stresses that the eu is founded on respect for the universal fundamental values of human rights, the rule of law, democracy, freedom, equality and human dignity, and these principles must remain the union's central objective, including in its neighbourhood policy. the report reiterates that strengthening the rule of law, supporting democracy and human rights is in the interest of partner countries and calls for stricter conditions on respect for these fundamental values. i also agree with the rapporteur's vision, which calls on the european commission to have a better focused, more flexible, more coherent and politically motivated neighbourhood policy (nep). the report also calls for the eu to formulate a clear and ambitious political vision for the enp and to pay particular attention to its own political priorities in the eastern and southern neighbourhoods, taking into account the different challenges faced by countries in each region and their different political aspirations and ambitions.
mr. president, intellectual property rights are one of the keys to economic growth. without research, without innovation we have no economic growth and we have no jobs. that is why we must invest in research, innovation and protect intellectual property. anyone who puts their mind to work and puts their mind to play to create something has to be protected and their product has to be protected. copyright law must protect intellectual property and stimulate investment in creativity and innovation. of course, it is desirable to have common rules at european union level. this report analyses the implementation of the copyright in the information society directive, a 2001 directive, and makes recommendations for its adaptation to the digital age. i would add a very important recommendation: the enforcement of laws in the member states because in many member states there are laws for the protection of copyright but they are not enforced and as such research and innovation are not stimulated.
in writing. ‒ copyright and intellectual property have been and will be one of the priorities of the european union, with the evolution of human society based on creativity and inventiveness. the key industries contribute around 38.6% to the eu's gross domestic product, and defending these rights aims to promote people's ability to create concepts and values that lead to the economic development of society and increase the number of jobs. europe itself is attractive to investors because of the legislative framework that preserves and promotes intellectual property rights. i welcome and encourage any initiative taken at european union level to this end. i support the establishment of a simplified functional framework, by clearly defining the tasks of the two entities to make the work more efficient and the responsible use of human and material capital and, not least, to reduce unnecessary costs. i voted in favour of the report on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights. i am confident that both parliament and the commission will continue to support the progressive harmonisation of this sector.
in writing. ‒ it is clear that the parliament must have a clear position in view of the upcoming commission proposal on the copyright reform. this report includes several paragraphs that are a priority for our group, such as the ones on creators’ remuneration and the re-balancing of their contractual position. although restating the principle of territoriality, the report promotes portability and also asks the commission for solutions for cross-border access. i welcome this balanced report, which reaches a good compromise between ensuring the rights of authors and performers on the one side and access to culture and information on the other. it reinforces several exceptions and limitations, but tries as well to ensure a good climate for the creative sector and the preservation of european cultural diversity. as it stands, this report deserves the support of this chamber.
in writing. – i have voted for this report to support the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights like the freedom of authors in the public domain and online access to non-commercial works.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which supports the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the light of new technologies, development and the fact that much of the interaction today takes place at the computer level. in this respect, the legislation already in force has lost its pace of development, leading to situations where certain internet content is not accessible for geographical reasons, which is contrary to the objectives of the eu digital market. it is precisely this increasingly intensive use of the it field in romania and the lack of strong legislation and its incorrect application that means that those who have the right to be fairly remunerated for their creations receive nothing, and even their work is abused. for this reason, i considered that this legislation should be changed and i supported this report.
in writing. ‒ the current report intends to set parliament’s position on copyrights, in view of the upcoming commission proposal on the copyright reform, due to be released in the autumn. the text represents several key elements. mainly: 1) restating the principle of territoriality; 2) safeguarding works that are in the public domain, and any digitisation of these works; 3) applying minimum standards across the exceptions and limitations; 4) providing accessibility of exceptions and limitations to people with disabilities; 5) revising the liability of intermediaries; 6) asking for more transparency regarding the private copying levies; 7) calling for a full scientific evaluation by the ipr observatory on national legislations that introduced ancillary rights. the only controversial element in the report was a restriction on the freedom of panorama. upon a mutual agreement between all political groups, the paragraph was deleted from the report and is not mentioned in the voted text. this report provides a balance between ensuring the rights of authors and performers, on the one hand, and access to culture and information on the other. it ensures a good climate for the creative sector and the preservation of the european cultural diversity, therefore i voted in favour of it.
in writing. i voted for the report on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society because the situation of many industries in this area is quite complicated. welcomes the rapporteur's assessment of the commission's commitment to further develop the eu digital agenda, including the objective of modernising copyright rules. the report also acknowledges the need to review directive 2001/29/ec in order to ensure adequate remuneration of authors, performers and other rightholders and adequate protection of those rights, and to achieve an appropriate balance in the european cultural economy between all stakeholders, namely smes, consumers, users, creators and rightholders, in a digital age that involves a constantly changing and evolving technological environment and generates changes in user behaviour, as well as opportunities and challenges. i have read carefully the views that have been submitted to me in relation to this report and i support the urgent need to review directive 2001/29/ec, given the complexity of the subject.
mr president, the european endowment for democracy (eed) has been used over the years to fight corruption, to defend the independence of the judiciary, to defend activist groups when they were in danger, to develop civil society, non-governmental organisations and all this in countries making the transition from dictatorship to democracy. as such, it is a very dear instrument and fund to me because i have used it in romania to the full and it has helped us in establishing democracy. in april 2015, the fund raised eur 4,5 million through 158 initiatives. among these is the neighbourhood policy, which is again very important to the european parliament. romania has benefited from this funding in the past and we see real progress today. the commission has also received a request from the united kingdom to provide additional information on the implementation of the european union solidarity fund. one last sentence: it is important to have stable funding and not to stop funding because (the president interrupted the speaker)
in writing. ‒ the european endowment for democracy has demonstrated in the current challenging international context that it is successfully fulfilling its objective of promoting and encouraging democratisation and genuine and sustainable democracy in countries in political transition and in societies struggling for democratisation. the edf has made considerable efforts to ensure and accelerate the initiation of a democratic process, bringing justice closer to the citizen. despite its short operating period and limited funds, as well as the inherent problems in assessing the impact of democracy support actions, the edf has followed parliament's recommendations and added value to the current eu support for democracy, helping to reduce political risks in the eu. i voted in favour of the report on the eu's new approach to human rights and democracy assessing the activities of the european endowment for democracy (edf) since its inception and i welcome the work undertaken by this vital eu body.
in writing. ‒ the edf's commitment to freedom of expression and association, freedom of the press, the creation and strengthening of the rule of law, the fight against corruption, social and political pluralism, and to supporting the development of democratic regimes in the eu's eastern and southern neighbourhoods is commendable, with 158 initiatives funded totalling over eur 4.5 million in the eu's southern neighbourhood and over eur 4.4 million in the eastern neighbourhood. in order to sustain and develop the edf's effectiveness, it is essential to ensure long-term, sufficient, stable, transparent and predictable funding. the edf should be actively involved in countries where external support to civil society is severely hampered or where state funding is discriminatory and granted exclusively to certain civil organisations or societies. member states should continue to provide financial assistance to russian civil society and media through the edf, given that recent events such as restrictions on civil society organisations, the crackdown on political opposition and aggressive disinformation campaigns by state-controlled media appear to serve the purpose of creating a highly nationalist political climate marked by anti-democratic rhetoric, repression and hate speech.
in writing. ‒ the european endowment for democracy has shown, after two years’ existence, that it has fulfilled the purpose for which it was created: the promotion of european values of freedom and democracy has achieved very good results. the eed remains an independent private-law foundation that delivers through fast, flexible, bottom up and demand-driven funding. it provides these funds directly to beneficiaries in a financially efficient manner that complements other eu means, doing so with a minimal administrative burden and simple procedures. it is vital, in order to sustain and further develop the effectiveness of the eed, to ensure long-term, sufficient, stable, transparent and predictable funding. i support stronger emphasis on groups that suffer from social exclusion or political marginalisation by supporting, among others, groups such as women’s movements, lgbti human rights activists, emerging political movements, trade unions, bloggers and new media activists.
in writing. – i have voted for this report that evaluates the european endowment for democracy’s track record to date given the current challenging international environment, and shows that it is fulfilling its main objective of fostering and encouraging democratisation and deep and sustainable democracy in countries in political transition and in societies struggling for democratisation.
in writing. ‒ the european union is a champion of democracy, the rule of law and respect for fundamental rights and freedoms in the world. the european endowment for democracy was set up to support these rights in the countries of the eastern or southern neighbourhood, especially where they are threatened by authoritarian systems, economic difficulties, security threats or censorship. with this flexible instrument, the union has been able to support laudable initiatives in favour of freedom of expression and association, freedom of the press, the creation and strengthening of the rule of law, the fight against corruption, and social and political pluralism. by involving more member states, and even external partners, a significant number of initiatives have been funded, but involving more resources and more countries would create even better conditions for supporting the democratisation process in the eu's neighbourhood. the use of new technologies guarantees a greater penetration force of the programme, allowing the support of activists for democracy and freedom of expression. of course, there are many other areas where the fund can help, such as the protection of minorities, the promotion of women, the prevention of social exclusion and support for media activists. however, the results achieved so far are remarkable, which justifies the adoption of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the situation in burundi. when it comes to human rights violations, violence and security limitations, it is welcome that the european union intervenes and reaffirms its firm commitment and determination to address the threat posed by extremist and terrorist groups, which in this case endanger the lives of burundian citizens. the european union advocates the resolution of conflicts through dialogue and negotiation, rather than through acts of violence, abuse and the use of weapons. the current situation in burundi is all the more serious in view of the limited humanitarian and medical aid that the population urgently needs. the denial of the right to liberty and health care is the worst abuse a citizen can suffer. the situation in burundi should continue to be monitored by the commission, the council and the parliament, as well as by all international bodies with the power to prevent and punish such abuses.
in writing. ‒ the political impasse in burundi and the deterioration of the security and economic situation have serious consequences for the population and pose risks for the region as a whole, with burundi facing its worst crisis since the 12-year-old ethnic civil war. only through dialogue and consensus, with the involvement of the government of burundi, the opposition and civil society and in accordance with the arusha agreement and the burundian constitution, can a lasting political solution be found in the interests of security and democracy for the burundian people. burundi has also signed and ratified the international covenant on civil and political rights and the african charter on human and peoples' rights and is therefore obliged to respect universal human rights, including freedom of expression. the burundian government must allow for real and open debate without fear of intimidation and refrain from abusing the judicial system to exclude political rivals. the commission has a duty to urgently re-evaluate eu aid with a view to redirecting it, increasing financial support to civil society and focusing on humanitarian aid.
in writing. ‒ in africa history repeats itself. another president, seeing the end of his power, tries, comme d’habitude, to modify the constitution to remain head of state. the result is a rebellion of the army and in some cases also of the population, a coup d'état or civil war. this is the time for burundi. i would like to honour the bravery and the resilience of the journalists of the independent newspapers, especially those of the iwacu weekly magazine who declared, in their editorial, that they must resist, never mind their destroyed newsrooms or their fleeing or murdered colleagues. this political instability in burundi is not acceptable, neither from a geopolitical point of view nor from a humanitarian one. internal disorders are likely to bring a population already devastated by hunger to its knees.
victor negrescu (s&d),in writing. – i have voted for this resolution that expresses grave concern about the worsening political and humanitarian situation in burundi and the wider region, calls for an immediate end to violence and political intimidation of opponents and the immediate disarmament of all armed youth groups allied to political parties.
in writing. ‒ the european union has developed, in the course of its institutional evolution, high democratic standards that put the respect for the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens at the forefront. in this respect, the union supports the strengthening of democratic regimes around the world, without, however, imposing its standards on other states. however, there are certain minimum requirements for countries receiving union financial assistance and which must comply with certain policy and transparency criteria. burundi is one such case, being a poor african country, ravaged by long-running internal conflicts. the european union has supported its economic development and the establishment of a democratic regime. however, the current level of internal conflict has reached an unacceptable level, resulting in a large number of refugees and the incumbent president's candidacy for a third term, contrary to the provisions of the 2005 constitution. in these circumstances, it is time for the european union to take a stand on the situation created and adopt the sanctions that are necessary against an abusive regime that is no longer representative of this state. that is why i believe that it is necessary to adopt this resolution, which can help to change the situation and help the people affected by the unjust policies of the burundian government.
in writing. ‒ this year marks the 20th anniversary of the genocide and ethnic cleansing that took place in and around srebrenica during the bosnian war. thousands of citizens were then executed and over 30,000 others were forcibly expelled in a campaign of ethnic cleansing. these regrettable events must be known and brought back to the memory of all european citizens, to show the monstrous effects of intolerance and excessive nationalism, which are still rife in certain parts of europe and the world. i voted in favour of this resolution because, firstly, this commemoration pays tribute to all the victims and reiterates the need for peace, security and tolerance, which is so necessary, especially in the current european context.
in writing. ‒ in the days following srebrenica’s fall, more than 8 000 bosnian muslim men and boys were systematically massacred and buried in mass graves. thousands of women, children and elderly people were forcibly deported and a large number of women were raped. it was the greatest atrocity on european soil since the second world war, and this is why i believe that the european commission should, by all means, appropriately commemorate the anniversary of the srebrenica-potoćari act of genocide, by supporting parliament’s recognition of 11 july as the day of commemoration of the srebrenica genocide all over the eu, and call on all the countries of the western balkans to do the same.
in writing. – i have voted for this resolution that commemorates and honours all the victims of the srebrenica genocide and atrocities committed during the wars in the former yugoslavia.
in writing. ‒ the events which took place 20 years ago on our very own continent marked that no matter the progress and prosperity some countries may enjoy, no matter how much we claim to ‘never again’ let such abominable crimes take place, we still run the risk of having such atrocities committed. the genocide was, i hope, a wake-up call for europe, one that said history can repeat itself if we are not vigilant, if we do not spend more on peace and human rights and dignity. i voted in favour of this resolution and i think with great sympathy of all the victims’ families who are commemorating their sad losses this year.
mr president, i am very pleased with the debate i am hearing here. as a former minister of justice in the czech republic, i was responsible for the drafting of the new civil code governing the right of association, and it is clear to me that this is one of the key rights of any democratic state governed by law. we should insist that cambodia adopt a law that meets european standards. this means that any association, civil society or, if you like, non-governmental organization, if it meets the basic legal conditions, can be formed by registration alone and the state cannot arbitrarily prevent such an organization from being established and functioning in cambodia. it's very good that we say this here and that we link it to the financial aid that we are giving to cambodia. i am convinced that if cambodia does not change its legislation, it should have an impact on the financial support of this country.
mr president, i would like to express my worries regarding the draft laws enacted by the cambodian government, which will restrict freedom of association, freedom of expression and freedom of assembly and will violate the constitution, shrinking significantly the space of civil society in cambodia. the most urgent draft law on associations and non-governmental organisations will severely affect cooperation with grass-roots-level ngos’ and also the bilateral cooperation of the european union development cooperation and the european union member states’ development cooperation programmes. i strongly believe that, since ngos have made an important contribution to rehabilitation, reconstruction and development for the past 30 years in cambodia, and since the eu is its largest partner in terms of development assistance, based on respect for the democratic principles and fundamental human rights established by the universal declaration on human rights, we need to support the call for the government to fully withdraw this law.
member of the commission.– mr president, this is indeed a very important debate, and let me assure you that we have heard the very clear message here and we will, of course, convey it to the high representative as well. we feel that we have strong support from this plenary to continue to pay close attention to the cases of mr bauma and mr makwambala and also the other people involved. as you know – and some members mentioned – this year 30 people were arrested at the filimbi workshop event in kinshasa, the youth platform to encourage young people to get involved in civic life in a peaceful and responsible way. most of those arrested were released or deported but two participants were detained further – the two people we are talking about here today. they were held by the national intelligence agency for more than 40 days without charge and without access to legal assistance. later they were transferred to the public prosecutor’s office and charged with several offences. the very little information that we have has led many to conclude that the charges are disproportionate and unsubstantiated, and there is an obvious risk in this context that the charges are politically motivated. we regret that a solution can still not be found to release those activists. a parliamentary investigation found no evidence to indicate that either the leaders or the participants at the filimbi workshop were involved in planning terrorist or violent crimes, yet the communication minister of the democratic republic of congo said that the filimbi leaders were planning ʽterrorist activitiesʼ and ʽviolent insurrectionʼ – and i quote him. there is no evidence backing this, so these statements are of course without substance. naturally we will continue to follow these cases extremely closely. two démarches have been made to the minister of justice and eu member states have been observing court hearings. both eu member states and our eu delegation have regular contact with human rights organisations and lawyers on the cases and you can count on our continued attention. more broadly, many of you have called for human rights to be at the centre of our dialogue with the democratic republic of congo (drc). it is a country with a remarkable plurality of parties, views and aspirations, and it is vital – this year more than ever – that all political and civil actors feel free to speak their minds and to submit themselves to the public through debate and discussion. respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms are essential elements in the cotonou agreement. these issues are also critical for the electoral cycle between now and the end of next year. the eu wants to support that process, but we need to have the right conditions to be in place in terms of budget, calendar and political climate. in both the local statements and council conclusions the eu has expressed concerns in the narrowing of the political space, particularly since the events accompanying the revision of the electoral law at the end of january earlier this year. we have underlined the risk of any perception that justice could be instrumentalised or serve political events. we are concerned by arbitrary detentions and arrests, especially those involving intelligence services, and by unnecessary use of force, physical threats and intimidation of journalists. where members of the security services have carried out illegal actions, the congolese authorities should take urgent action to investigate and prosecute cases. in our responses we have drawn on the african charter on democracy, elections and governance, which stresses the importance of a political climate free of tension, allowing for an open debate, protecting freedom of expression and the right of the opposition to ensure the independence and impartiality of justice. the eu stands ready to support the drc in a genuine partnership. the launching of a national indicative programme of eur 620 million stands as proof of that commitment. however, we will continue to speak up and engage where we have concerns, in this case and in many others.
in writing.– on 15 march 2015 congo’s national intelligence agency arrested 30 pro-democracy activists in kinshasa while they were attending a workshop for filimbi, a movement to promote mobilisation in politics. yves makwambala and fred bauma were among these people. over the following weeks, mass arrests continued in kinshasa and goma, where people were tortured because they were peacefully protesting the arrest of the activists. those arrested are still detained and they do not have access to legal assistance. in the light of the provisions of the african charter, which congo ratified, i shall remind the congolese authorities of their obligations to guarantee fundamental rights such as the freedom of expression and assembly, and access to justice. freedom of expression is the vital element for a healthy society and for any individual. human rights are universal and inalienable; therefore they should be applied in congo too! i condemn the extreme form of violence held against the human rights defenders and demand their immediate release. following the cotonou agreement, i reaffirm that it is impunity which contributes to the preservation of cycles of violence and the cause of human rights violations. the perpetrators of violence against activists and journalists should be brought to justice!
author. mr president, nabil rajab, a human rights defender in bahrain, is in prison because he tweeted. so he was punished for exercising his freedom of speech. this is the heart of the matter and it is what justifies the adoption of an emergency resolution calling for the immediate and unconditional release of mr rajab. the epp group is today proposing a balanced resolution, focusing above all on this specific case. i would like to remind you that the purpose of our urgent resolutions is to take concrete action and to try to secure the release of the arbitrarily imprisoned human rights activists, in this case nabil rajab. these resolutions must not be transformed into a geopolitical analysis of the countries of the arabian peninsula. the central issue is not anti-terrorism legislation or arms exports, as is unfortunately the case in the resolutions proposed by some groups. that is why the ppe group, on whose behalf i am speaking today, refused to co-sign this joint resolution, because it is completely outside the original mandate, which is to discuss the very serious case of nabil rajab, who has already been imprisoned several times since he set up the bahrain centre for human rights. i therefore call on my colleagues to vote in favour of the epp group's resolution.
on behalf of the epp group. mr. president, nabeel rajab, the president of the bahrain center for human rights, was sentenced to six months in prison for his twitter posts. it seems incredible. but nabeel is in prison! he tweeted that "many bahraini citizens who joined the isis terrorist group come from bahrain's security institutions, and these institutions have served as an ideological incubator". so he expressed his opinion on twitter. freedom of expression is a foundation of the sovereignty and freedom of any people and of any individual. in short, i demand the immediate release of nabeel rajab! let's think about whether maybe we should suspend arms exports to bahrain until human rights are respected, at least to a decent level, in this country.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, as you have just said, we believe that this debate is important and that it would be very useful, before a decision is taken in plenary, to have an exchange of views and hear the arguments in the committee on foreign affairs. i think it is a mistake not to have considered this question in committee.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i hope to have more success with belarus. we believe that it would be very useful, in the present situation, to present parliament's consensus position on this country. it is not enough to simply exchange views; we consider it important to define our position at this stage in a text agreed by our political groups.
mr president, we are against the idea of having a major debate on turkey now because, as our colleague has just explained, this is a political matter and a partisan concern of this political group. we are in the midst of two elections in turkey and the issues of migration and the fight against terrorism will be dealt with in the other debates that have already been scheduled. i do not think that we should now enter into a political battle between the extreme left groups and the turks.
rapporteur.– mr president, please allow me first to thank my colleagues, the shadow rapporteurs, for their work on this file, and the commission and the council for their cooperation. without all the good work and support received, we would not have reached an agreement in june under the latvian presidency, bringing the eu basic regulation into line with the world trade organisation (wto) ruling. in 2009, within the basic regulation, the eu opted for a ban in trade in seal products, with two main exceptions: products from hunts conducted by inuit and other indigenous communities (the ic exception) and products from hunts conducted for the sole purpose of the sustainable management of marine resources on a small scale and non-profit basis (the mrm exception). the aim of this regulation is to ensure that products derived from seals hunted for commercial purposes are no longer found on the eu market. the seal regulation and its implementing act were challenged by canada and norway in the wto. the final rulings of the wto panel and the wto appellate body were adopted on 18 june 2014 by the wto dispute settlement body on 18 june 2014, disapproving of one of the two exceptions, namely the mrm exception. canada and the european union had agreed that the reasonable period of time to implement the recommendations and rulings should be 16 months from the date of adoption. that period expires on 18 october 2015. the european commission did not adopt its proposal for amending the current regulation on trade in seal products until 6 february 2015, bringing the current legislation into line with the wto rulings by renouncing the mrm exception and keeping the reinforced inuit exception. although i very much appreciate that not all meps and member states agree with the deletion of the mrm exception, i am very pleased to announce that the final agreement reached is in line with the wto rulings. as regards the inuit exception, the consolidated text encompasses a new set of criteria under which seal products resulting from hunts conducted by inuit and other indigenous communities could be placed on the market – a clear reference to the needs of such communities to provide food and income to support their life and a sustainable livelihood. we amended the commission’s proposal, taking into consideration in particular the right to self-determination of the inuit and other indigenous communities. the proposal was amended so as to reiterate that seal hunting is an integral part of the culture and identity of the inuit communities, making a major contribution to their subsistence, providing food and income to support their families and small communities, and preserving and continuing the traditional existence of the community and the cultural heritage of bartering. in the report i have proposed a new article, namely 5a, referring to the need for citizens to be properly informed about seal products placed on the eu market which originate in inuit and other indigenous communities, and that those seal products are lawful in origin. last, but not least, as regards article 7 on reporting, the agreed text asks the commission to report by the end of 2019 on the implementation of the new rules, paying particular attention to the impact of those rules on the inuit community. i look forward to hearing what the commission, the council and, of course, my colleagues have to say.
madam president, considering the final rulings in the dispute settlement body of the world trade organisation on 18 june 2014 defining the inuit and mrm exceptions as an arbitrary and unjustifiable discrimination, we have no choice but to adopt an amendment to the current regulation on trade in seal products in order to bring the eu regulation into compliance with the world trade organisation rules. as stated by the world trade organisation, the eu did not address animal welfare in inuit hunts given that the overall objective of the regulation was based on animal welfare concerns, and the ambiguity of some of its conditions could lead to the use of the exception for hunts in ways which should in reality be characterised as primarily undertaken for commercial purposes. i therefore strongly agree on the links made in the proposal between the use of the exception and respect for animal welfare. this provides for a mechanism that could help prevent its misuse.
member of the commission.– madam president, thank you to all those who have participated in this debate. let me once again thank you for being engaged in this process so constructively, despite the sensitivities surrounding the subject, which have been well reflected in most of the points which you raised. the updated regulation aims at ensuring that the fundamental economic and social interests of those communities traditionally engaged in the hunting of seals will not be affected adversely. the hunt, as has been explained, is an integral part of their culture and identity and represents a source of income and, as has already been highlighted by most of the speakers, contributes to their subsistence as well. indeed, the marine resource management exception is not part of the outcome, as it clearly is incompatible with the wto. however, rest assured that we have thoroughly examined each and every proposal that we have received but found no possibility for keeping the exception without running a great risk of wto sanctions because of continued non-compliance. the revised legislation will enable the eu to comply with the wto ruling and provide a non-discriminatory legal framework in line with public moral concerns. so thank you for giving the proposed regulation your support.
rapporteur.– madam president, i can understand that the agreement reached does not completely satisfy some of the nordic and baltic countries, but i do appreciate that they also understand that this agreement is more valuable and should be adopted, especially as we succeeded in having a new set of criteria for the inuit exception and because of the agreed text on article 7 on reporting. i agree with mr bendtsen’s remarks and i truly believe, after the meetings i had with the representatives of the greenland and danish parliament, with the inuit community, different ngos and with the commission itself, that the hunt conducted by inuits and other indigenous communities does not harm or threaten to harm the habitat and health of the seal populations, and there is no chance that it is made primarily for commercial purposes. the inuits hunt because this is their way of supporting their family and their small communities. their livelihood needs are very simple and modest. they have been doing it for hundreds of years as part of their tradition and cultural heritage and they have respect for animal welfare. we have a very fast-track calendar, and without good cooperation we could not have reached an agreement and met the deadlines in order to give the commission time to prepare all the necessary subsequent acts by the october deadline. thank you very much once again. i look forward to the vote tomorrow.
mr. president, i propose that we talk about something else than we have talked about so far, and that is what we, the people, do to defend our individual rights, our rights, starting from the idea that only when we fight for them, when we protest, when we go out on the streets, when we shout, when we scream that our rights are being violated, only then will we have them. it's a daily struggle to maintain ourselves and to preserve our rights. let's take two situations -- i was thinking about freedom of speech and freedom of demonstration. freedom of expression is the journalist's right, which, of course, must also respect the sacred rule of journalism - facts are true, opinions are free - but also our right, the people's right, the public's right, to be informed. we have journalists who are harassed, fired, expelled, who stay at home, who have nowhere to work, because they didn't want to violate their principles, because they didn't want to listen to their bosses, and they stayed with their principles and they have no livelihood. i write on personal blogs -- very good, because at least some of us are informed. but what do we as people do to defend their right to continue to practice their profession and to give us the right to be properly informed? another example is the right to free association -- what do we as people do when we have governments full of corrupt, liars, impostors, plagiarists, incompetents -- what do we do, go out into the streets to defend our lives against them? this is the problem i see -- this lack of reaction in a lot of european countries, lack of reaction against rights violations. i've given two very important examples for our lives -- journalists and our right to know what governments are doing to us and our right to control governments and take them down. it's very easy to bring down a government just by going out in the streets, a hundred thousand the first time.
i welcome the findings of the report on the situation of fundamental rights concerning minorities, and i would like to highlight in particular those points on which - irrespective of the outcome of tomorrow's vote - there seems to be a consensus among the parliamentary groups. it is now widely recognised that there is a need for greater consistency in the protection of minorities, to avoid double standards and to have a mechanism to monitor the application of minority rights. we also agree that the european institutions have a role to play in creating a comprehensive eu system and call on the member states to ensure effective equal treatment of national, ethnic and linguistic minorities on the basis of international standards and best european practice. the need to implement effectively the international conventions drawn up within the council of europe and the osce is not disputed between the political groups, and we share the common objective of combating discrimination based on language use and removing administrative obstacles to linguistic diversity. i think that these are very serious steps forward, and representatives of national minorities have been calling for years, indeed for decades, for the european union to approach their situation in this spirit. we must all therefore strive to ensure that, following the european parliament's resolution, the commission adopts this approach and starts to develop and operate a european minority protection mechanism.
mr president, with our neighbours from the republic of moldova, we the romanians share a common language, traditions, culture and history. last year moldova set the record in ratifying the eu association agreement, clearly showing its interest in becoming a close partner of the european union. this is why i believe the european union should strongly support the republic of moldova’s objective of further integration into european structures and should develop increasingly close relations with moldova, going beyond simple cooperation to gradual economic integration and a deepening of political cooperation. to define prospects of eu membership should be a key priority of both the republic of moldova and the european union. this should have to lead to the accession of moldova into the european union in the future. we have to give clear eu membership prospects to the citizens of the republic of moldova. this is clearly in the interest of europe as well.
first vice-president of the commission. – madam president, of course the simplification of the common agricultural policy is a way to reduce the number of controls on the spot. simpler rules mean that it is going to be easier to implement them, easier for farmers to work with them and easier for authorities to check up on them. as some of you have said, phil hogan has already started with this simplification exercise and it is well advanced. we have received many contributions from all stakeholders. some changes have already been implemented and the commission will present more proposals in the coming months. however, we do not have to wait for new rules to impact on the number of controls farmers face. the current legislation allows member states with reliable management and control systems to reduce the level of the spot checks. some member states have expressed interest in taking advantage of this possibility. the commission services are working closely with them to ensure all conditions for this reduction are met. of course we want simple rules and better application, but we also have a great responsibility in ensuring that taxpayers’ money is not misappropriated and does not end up where it should not. member states are also encouraged, in the current legislation, to organise their controls in a way that reduces the burden for farmers. let us not forget either that only 5% of farmers are subject to on-the-spot checks for compliance with cap rules. most of the controls they are faced with result from national laws and from cross-compliance requirements, which do not originate from cap legislation. obviously, to most farmers it does not make any difference whether a rule comes from brussels or from their own country: they are faced with rules and they want fewer of them. they are absolutely right. they should be farming and not involved in constant bureaucracy. but we believe that member states could, in so far as possible, try to group their own controls with those resulting from cap obligations, and perhaps they could also learn more from each other than they do today. as i said, controls are, and will remain, necessary. if the eu legislator or the member states has specified a conditional requirement to be respected before aid can be paid, then there needs to be a check that this condition or requirement has been met. the more numerous or complex the requirements, the more numerous or complex the controls. taxpayers have the right to know whether subsidies from the eu budget are being spent according to the rules, and we will therefore not accept any proposal that might compromise the sound financial management of the eu budget. finally, we should ask ourselves whether an error rate of 2% is, per se, the appropriate benchmark for a complex policy such as the cap and, more concretely, rural development. in that context, we should also raise the issue of the acceptable relation between the cost and the benefits of controls. any reflection that does not attempt to tackle this question would really be a missed opportunity. the common agricultural policy is, and will remain, a cornerstone of eu policies. it is in our common interest that this policy be as effective as possible and that it retain the support of farmers and citizens. taxpayers will want to be sure that their money is well spent. i would like to thank mr sarvamaa very much for his report, which will be added to the contributions to the ongoing debate about simplification of the cap.
in writing. there are 12 million farmers in the eu for whom agriculture is a full-time occupation (agriculture and the agri-food industry, which is dependent on the agricultural sector for supplies). 500 million consumers in europe depend on a reliable source of healthy food at an affordable price. the cap was created to help farmers in europe, but the complexity of this policy and the associated bureaucracy have increased significantly in recent years for both the competent authorities and farmers. a cap that can be clearly implemented and interpreted is needed to reduce the error rate. it is necessary to develop tools to demonstrate errors in cases of fraud, while ensuring that farmers can continue to deliver food production. moreover, the commission should consider closing the gap between european farmers, given that in some countries subsidies are below the eu level, which is a huge handicap in competition with farmers in other eu countries. the commission's initiative to simplify the cap is welcomed, with immediate consideration of measures that can be implemented, to the benefit of farmers, paying agents, the eu institutions and taxpayers. this would ease the administrative burden that arises.
in writing. currently, the unemployment rate among young people in the european union is over 20% twice the unemployment rate for all age groups combined and almost three times higher than for those over 25. the european union promotes entrepreneurship through the europe 2020 strategy and its flagship initiatives on 'new skills and jobs', 'a digital agenda for europe', 'an innovation union' and 'youth on the move'. young people have the capacity to significantly influence the direction of europe's workforce in the years ahead. i believe that the european union, together with the member states, must support young people to develop professionally and believe in their power to bring about change and contribute to the smart, sustainable and inclusive growth that the europe 2020 strategy proposes.
in writing. as a shadow rapporteur, i believe this report is an important one, which must be an integral part of the european union's strategy to support the young generation for growth, employment, education and social inclusion. however, as a result of the very high rate of unemployment among young people, they still face increased levels of poverty and social exclusion, especially those belonging to disadvantaged and vulnerable groups. the report makes it clear that disadvantaged groups need special attention and support throughout education, through involving parents and communities in the educational process, as well as help to start, run or develop a business or enterprise. i have argued that non-formal and informal learning activities are of particular relevance to young people with fewer opportunities, providing them with additional learning opportunities for their integration into the formal education and training system. i believe that member states should continue to develop systems for the recognition and validation of skills acquired through non-formal and informal learning in order to give young people the opportunity for reorientation and a second chance, but also to encourage self-recognition and further learning.
in writing. entrepreneurship among young people can be a future solution to increase european competitiveness, but also to solve, at least partially, the problem of unemployment in europe. as a former entrepreneur, i believe that education and training are central to a young person's ability to develop a business. young people with very good ideas often fail to implement their desires due to lack of information or managerial skills. education systems across europe need to be adapted to the new economic context and to develop entrepreneurship among young people. this requires training for teachers, but also adapting the school curriculum so that entrepreneurship activities are developed. last but not least, european funds must support youth entrepreneurship, supporting the training and counselling component of young entrepreneurs, thanks to which europe can boast a strong network of smes.
the reporter. madam president, the report i am presenting to you now seeks to convince policy-makers of the importance of cultural heritage and the opportunities this sector can create for both professionals and communities. this importance is reflected in the title of this report - 'an integrated approach'. 'integrated' means that, in practice, the cultural component exists in almost any subject that we can develop in everyday life in any public debate. here are a few points i'd like to highlight to start with. we call for the designation as soon as possible of a european year of cultural heritage with a suitable budget. we then ask the european commission to better organise information on the financing of cultural heritage, to set up a single european union-wide portal dedicated to cultural heritage. let's stop hiding behind the fact that all the information is available on the internet. the stark reality is that the cultural sector is in dire need of funding in all member states and we need to help cultural operators to use all the european funds to which they are entitled. another important step we need to take is to remove from the fdr regulation the five million euro threshold set for cultural heritage projects. we have been fighting for months to remove this threshold, which has been set entirely artificially, and our report is very clear on this point. i therefore ask the european commission not to ignore the voice of the citizens who have asked us for help in removing this threshold. another flaw identified by our report is the lack of an adequate quality control system for heritage projects. a restoration project for a heritage site is not just a simple list of bills. the moment we pour concrete over a medieval fresco it doesn't matter that the financial audit was perfectly fine, covered in bills. our report therefore calls for mandatory references to the quality of restoration work to be included in the regulation on european programmes. we can destroy with european funds what thousands of years of weather or war have not. because i've come here, with regret, i must remember just a moment about the monstrous attack on the ancient city of palmyra. there's just an ancient city in the desert; there's an ancient city, a world heritage wonder, and a thermal spring, both. there can be no other interests: there is no oil, there is no population, there is nothing. it's nothing, it's just empty and... and yet, some criminals have attacked so cruelly precisely this place. why would you do that? simple: because it is about the world's cultural memory. and i say this because recently a resolution was voted on the proposal of the chairman of the committee on culture, mrs silvia costa, who is present in the plenary of the parliament, which considers these types of acts of destruction of the world's cultural heritage as crimes against humanity. it's about murder. now, finally, i regret to tell you that, in my opinion at least, recent assessments of risk areas in the vicinity of the european union have created an aberrant, dangerous, explosive situation. these assessments took into account political, geopolitical, military, perhaps economic, etc. criteria and not cultural criteria at all. what i mean by that is that there is a risk that today's so-called refugee crisis, the massive, unexpected, explosive migration over the european union, hides in it another possible crisis, and that may be a cultural crisis, a clash of cultures. i hope i am wrong, i expect the european commission to give me an appropriate answer as soon as possible. thank you and i look forward to the vote tomorrow.
in writing.– as a co-author of a previous parliament resolution dealing with the right to water, i fully support the call for legislation to implement the right to water and sanitation. this is a human right as recognised by the united nations and should be underpinned by the proper legal framework to ensure that it is a reality for everyone. i welcome the commission’s recognition that water is not a commercial product, but overall i think the commission’s response to the european citizens’ initiative ‘right2water’ has been disappointing. pressure on water resources is growing. in the interests of the environment and human rights, the eu should provide the necessary support to ensure that resources are managed properly and water is accessible and affordable for all.
the first item on the agenda is the debate on the report of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the cloning of bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine animals reared and bred for agricultural purposes (com (2013) 0892 - c7-0002/2014 - 2013/0433 (cod)) (a8-0216/2015).
mr president, today we are again faced with a test: are we or are we not on the side of the citizens on an issue of major concern to their lives? the problem is cloning animals for food, and we've been at this point in the last term. at that time, the institutional deadlock could not be overcome and we were unable to regulate the issue of cloning, because each institution held a different view. but we have to start with what people want. it is clear that europeans do not want to consume food derived from cloned animals. 70% of europeans think that food production from cloned animals should not be encouraged and only 15% think otherwise, according to the latest eurobarometer on the subject. unfortunately, the council and the commission seem to have decided to introduce the cloning process into the food chain without taking this wish into account and despite the fact that we cannot foresee the long-term consequences of this decision. we are called upon to decide on a matter that will impact many generations and we are not allowed to play with their future. it's not enough to ban cloning, we have to ban the import of these foods. we don't need cloning to provide the food for the european union. to do this, it is enough to encourage a fair agricultural policy and support producers. i call on the parliament, the council and the commission to take account not of the interests of the food industry but of the health and safety of citizens and future generations.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the basis of the information provided by the member states. thank you very much, mr. president. i am glad that you and your group say that we do not need to have animal cloning in europe, but i was surprised to hear you say that you do not think that labelling is necessary in view of the costs. we have had these discussions in parliament before. what do you think: is it more important that we have a cost of labeling or the health and knowledge of the buyer? i'm on the consumer protection commission, and that's what i'm advocating.
mr president, animal cloning has been a major concern for the research field. at the same time, food safety and animal health have been objectives for the european union that have been and are continually being strengthened. however, it is not without relevance that some countries around the world use animal cloning for agricultural purposes, so that this regulation is absolutely necessary. research and studies show that over 80% of the population in the european union today does not want to eat food derived from cloned animals. in these circumstances, the traceability of foodstuffs, and of germinal products entering the internal market of the european union, must be guaranteed by all import certificates guaranteeing that they do not come from animals or their offspring resulting from this process. on the other hand, animal cloning is not just a new technology, not well known, but a welcome research method, even if we stop at the conservation of endangered animal breeds, the production of medicines, and more. that is why i believe that we must continue to support research at european level in the field of animal cloning, as well as a much deeper analysis of its long-term effects. a reassessment and review is therefore necessary within a reasonable time to take account of all technical and scientific progress in this area, not least the perception of public opinion.
in writing. first of all, i would like to point out that there is no information on the quantity of cloned animals that has already reached the european market. for this reason, in the absence of such data, the european citizen is deprived of the right to opt for or against the purchase of such animals. the consumer is deprived of the right to opt for or against the consumption of products from cloned animals. as regards the cloning process of animals, at this stage there is not enough information to prove that products from cloned animals are 100% safe and do not in any way endanger public health. therefore, more scientific studies and more in-depth testing are needed to verify whether products are harmful to human health. so, in the absence of proper information and careful analysis at the moment on the cloning of cattle, pigs, sheep, goats and equidae raised and bred for agricultural purposes, i call for the views of european citizens and their rights to be respected when this decision is taken at european level!
in writing. parliament's role is to represent the people, and by voting in favour of this report, we will do that. consumers are frightened by the possible side effects of cloning on food, but also by the implications of cloning for animal welfare. we do not dismiss the potential role of cloning in the conservation of endangered species, but we have no reason, and no encouraging scientific evidence, to support this technique for food production. the european union must take all necessary measures to prevent the production and import of clones and offspring of clones, of foodstuffs derived from clones and offspring of clones, and of germinal products derived from clones or offspring of cloned animals.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, commissioner, we appreciate the commission's efforts to ensure that customs and agricultural legislation is correct, but at the same time we must not forget the principle of subsidiarity, according to which the member states know best the problems they face. i therefore ask you, commissioner, to take account of what the member states send you through the relevant ministries. we have a duty to producers and consumers alike to make every effort to combat agricultural products smuggling and thus contribute to the internal market objective of having safe products with genuine certificates of origin. i reiterate that we must take realistic, and not just declarative, account of the recommendations made by the member states, given that they know best the problems they are facing. i believe that more and more consideration should be given to on-the-spot checks which can lead to future strategies for effective control in order to reduce the risk of evasion. the commission's acceleration of the customs investigation following a request from a member state is also welcomed, as is the introduction of the obligation for public or private sector operators whose activities are linked to the international supply chain to transmit data on container movements to the commission.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to stress at the outset the importance of this report on mutual assistance between the administrative authorities of the member states and cooperation between them and the commission with a view to the correct application of customs legislation. you said it yourself before, my dear colleagues. sure, there's a very big leak and the figures we don't have at their true value! however, i would like to emphasise that, in addition to these financial deficits created in the member states, erroneously completed customs declarations also cause great harm to consumers, because a lot of counterfeit goods enter and also affect fair competition in the internal market, particularly in the case of smes. i think that the team that worked on the changes, especially mrs jaakonsaari and the shadow rapporteurs, took these things into account and came to a balanced change. i also think that much more rigorous control is needed! why do we have a regulation if there is no rigorous control! i am glad that the amendment is included in the text, which obliges the commission to report annually on the results of these checks and controls in order to reduce, if not eliminate, customs fraud, particularly in agriculture and alcohol. i congratulate the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs and hope that, through implementation and cooperation between the administrations of the member states, we will be able to achieve fair competition, consumer protection and, why not, the growth of smes and trade defence against non-european products.
in writing. ‒ labour law is one of the fundamental pillars of honest work and is the main instrument for combating labour exploitation, given that forced labour is a violation of human rights and undermines the dignity of millions of women, men, girls and boys. the 2014 protocol to the international labour organisation convention seeks to update that convention and provide new tools to combat forced labour by making it legally binding. furthermore, it calls on governments to take measures to better protect workers, especially migrant workers, from abusive practices, and provides a perspective on protecting human beings from forced labour through prevention. i voted in favour of this recommendation because the european union's policies must protect human rights and decent work, while eliminating undeclared work both inside and outside the union.
in writing. ‒ it is clear that new forms of exploitation based on physical or material coercion are being added to the classical forms, especially in rich countries, sometimes even in spite of the existence of the rule of law. i mention that forced labour is a violation of human rights and an affront to the dignity of millions of people. the 2014 protocol to the 1930 ilo convention on forced labour updates that convention by providing new tools to combat forced labour and by making it legally binding. i support the ratification, in the interest of the european union, of the protocol of 2014 to the forced labour convention of 1930 of the international labour organisation on matters of social policy.
in writing. ‒ labour rights are one of the fundamental pillars of decent work and the main tool to combat labour exploitation. i agree that there needs to be a real reflection at european level on the risk factors for forced labour that push people towards it: loss of income and poverty, vulnerabilities related to lack of education, illiteracy, vulnerability of certain groups (women, migrant children). i believe that the european strategy to combat poverty must go far beyond the simple coordination of national actions, to set binding poverty reduction targets and to include the text of the preamble to this protocol, according to which forced labour 'contributes to the perpetuation of poverty and prevents the achievement of the objective of decent work for all'.
in writing. ‒ the protocol of 2014 on the forced labour convention is a fundamental tool for the defence of human rights. nevertheless member states need authorisation from the european union to open negotiations as well as to ratify international agreements when parts of the agreements fall in areas of eu competence. hence it is not acceptable that member states entered negotiations on the protocol without prior authorisation.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report that combats the most violent form of exploitation that is an affront to the dignity of millions of women, men, girls and boys.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that modern slavery needs new tools to combat it, and in order to combat it we must not forget that as states we are obliged, above all, to respect fundamental human rights and freedoms, including the right to be protected against forced labour. it is a condition that the eu as a whole and each country individually fight against the illegal exploitation of people. in the european parliament, we often hear shocking cases of modern slavery, and what is more shocking is that the victims are often women and children who become 'working tools' for human traffickers. the european commission and the member states have an obligation to ensure that the right to human dignity is not infringed by, for example, the right to free movement. european citizens have a legitimate right to decent work and fair pay, and the eu must actively fight to ensure that their rights are respected.
in writing. ‒ while slavery is a shameful practice belonging to the past, the harsh reality is that approximately 21 million people, in our 21st century, perform forced labour as victims of exploitation and trafficking. in order to eliminate these practices, the international labour organization (ilo) updated its 1930 forced labour convention with the 2014 protocol, which gives the convention new tools for combating forced labour. today’s resolution recommends that member states ratify the 2014 protocol, with regard to matters related to social policy. for example, it calls on member states to consider measures to better protect workers – particularly migrant workers – from abusive and fraudulent practices. it also recommends placing a larger emphasis on risk factors such as a decline in income, a lack of education and illiteracy, which compel individuals to perform forced labour. lastly, it asks that eu’s foreign and trade policies are more determined in their approaches to third countries which breach the 1930 ilo convention and its 2014 protocol. i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe the eu has an obligation to ensure that the rights of workers, either eu citizens or foreign nationals, are respected and all forms of modern-day slavery are combated.
in writing. ‒ considering the fact that the alleged offence does not have a direct or obvious connection with mr korwin-mikke’s performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament, and that in this case parliament has found no evidence of ‘fumus persecutionis’, i am in favour of waiving the parliamentary immunity of janusz korwin-mikke.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report according to its resolution and analysis.
in writing. ‒ the loss of millions of euros from the eu budget indicates the scale of fraud in the customs system. these losses show us the urgent need to adopt more effective prevention and detection mechanisms at national and european level, precisely to reduce the risks of fraud. i believe that we need to focus on simplifying and speeding up fraud mechanisms in a way that avoids unnecessary and repetitive red tape. all of this can lead to the strengthening of the internal market and of the products circulating within it, thus guaranteeing a higher level of protection for consumers. in order to make the actions more effective, there is also a need for permanent communication between the customs authorities of each member state and their communication with the european commission in order to protect the financial and economic interests of the eu. i voted in favour of the report on the proper application of customs and agricultural legislation, as i believe that the ec initiative to amend this regulation supports the changes brought about by the new customs code, which aims to simplify and apply customs legislation in a uniform manner and to facilitate customs procedures, which will be fully computerised and will offer maximum simplification, as well as to improve customs controls.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the commission's proposal on striking a balance between the internal market and consumer protection, which aims to simplify and speed up mechanisms to combat customs fraud, thus avoiding unnecessary and repetitive red tape, in order to strengthen the security of the internal market, but also of the products circulating within it, thus guaranteeing a high level of consumer protection.
in writing. ‒ through this report, we will be able to increase the exchange of information and the available evidence, and improve the functioning of the established system. i support the proposal by the commission to create a new database, which would oblige carriers to supply the commission with information on container movements, considering the fact that it will include export data, but only of product categories falling under excise duty like tobacco and alcohol, as these are particularly sensitive to fraud. therefore, it will be in line with our position on data protection and trade secrets.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this proposal to reject the council’s position.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today because it is in line with the council's position and thus closes the legislative co-decision procedure whereby customs and agricultural legislation has been changed to meet new challenges at eu level. it is essential that the institutions of the member states cooperate and be able to use the evidence collected by the partner authorities to punish those who commit customs transport offences. traceability of goods and control by authorities of products entering and/or leaving the eu is an additional tool to combat illegal trafficking and tax evasion. it is also very important that all these procedures provide companies and citizens with the security of the information collected and the least bureaucracy possible.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1007/2009 on trade in seal products, as it seeks better regulation in this sector. i believe that seal hunting contributes greatly to the subsistence of indigenous communities, as it is one of the few sources of food to which they have access. the report proposal is beneficial to these communities, as it regulates, among other things, the cases in which the european commission may intervene to adopt delegated acts to limit the quantity of products obtained from this hunting that can be placed on the market.
in writing. ‒ considering the final rulings of the dispute settlement body of the wto on 18 june 2014, defining the inuit and mrm exceptions as ‘arbitrary and unjustifiable discrimination’, we have no choice but to adopt an amendment to the current regulation on trade in seal products, in order to bring the eu regulation into compliance with wto rules. as stated by the wto, the eu did not address animal welfare in inuit hunts, given that the overall objective of our regulation was based on animal welfare concerns, and the ambiguity of some of its conditions could lead to a use of the exception for hunts that should in reality be characterised as primarily undertaken for commercial purposes. i therefore strongly agree with the links made in the proposal between use of the exception and respect for animal welfare and it provides for a mechanism that would help prevent its misuse. i support the agreement reached that makes it obligatory on the commission to inform public and private authorities of the impact of this regulation, namely the fact that seal products derived from inuit hunts can be legally sold.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report that will instate a prohibition on placing seal products on the market.
in writing. ‒ around one third of the world trade in seal products either passes through or ends up on the eu market. to answer animal welfare concerns, the eu banned trade in seal products in 2009. however, it allowed two exceptions for seal products from hunting by inuit and other indigenous communities, and for small-scale hunts to ensure the ‘sustainable management of marine resources’ (mrm exception). in june 2014, a wto ruling challenged these exceptions, arguing that they could have discriminatory effects. as a reaction to that, the commission tabled a proposed update of the eu rules which align them with the wto ruling by renouncing the mrm exception and clarifying the inuit one. the current reports backs the commission report and provides further improvements, asking the commission: 1) to report on the impacts of this regulation, and to assess deletion of the mrm-exception, and 2) to inform the public of the impacts of this regulation, namely the fact that seal products derived from inuit hunts can legally be sold. adoption of this report sets a stronger eu ban on the trade in seal products and helps to ensure fewer seals are hunted for their fur.
in writing. ‒ seal hunting is an integral part of inuit culture. it provides a source of livelihood that fully corresponds to the traditional lifestyle of the community, preserving its identity and thus guaranteeing its perpetuity. i therefore welcome the commission's decision to maintain the ic exception in the context of the amendment of regulation no 1007/2009 on trade in seal products, but to strengthen it by imposing strict conditions. furthermore, i agree with the removal of the exception on products from fishing for the sustainable management of marine resources, as it risks being interpreted broadly and thus leading to abuses. the report is particularly innovative in proposing that consumers be properly informed about the origin of seal products from indigenous communities. furthermore, the report asks the commission to conduct an impact study of the new regulation on the inuit community by the end of 2019. convinced that such strict but highly useful measures would have a positive effect on the inuit community, while ensuring animal welfare, i voted in favour of the report on trade in seal products.
in writing. ‒ we all know that animal cloning is a hazard for animal welfare. it leads to placental and foetal abnormalities resulting in poor welfare for offspring and dams used for cloning, and often substantial pain for the latter. cloning treats animals as commodities, not as sentient beings, and is associated with great animal suffering at all stages of the process. the negative effects of cloning, inter alia on animal welfare and on food security, greatly outweigh any possible positive effects: thus, the use of descendants of clones is simply not acceptable. therefore, i strongly support the prohibition of cloning of animals in the eu and i believe that the use of cloning and the placing on the market of the corresponding products should be prohibited until further scientific progress is made.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which will better regulate animal cloning for farming purposes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the basis that it is our duty as decision-makers today to establish certain firm principles in the field of animal cloning for the future. as we are still in the early stages of scientific studies, i believe it is essential at this point to ensure that, whatever the decisions of the states, european citizens will continue to consume safe, healthy food and that their lives will not be endangered by these products next year or in 10 years' time. unfortunately, as this report shows, for products from cloned animals or their descendants, there is a lack of data and analysis on possible genetic mutations and their implications for citizens. i believe that the legislative vacuum in this area must be filled in, and i believe that we must start from the idea that, whatever the dietary needs of the population, we cannot allow these products to reach the tables of european citizens until we are sure that the benefits of using products from cloned animals outweigh the disadvantages, including in the long term.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament’s decisive vote today makes it clear that the european commission’s proposal is not comprehensive enough. the weak legislation proposed by the commission would create generations of eu farm animals coming from animals cloned in third countries. research shows that people do not want cloning to be used in food production, and the european parliament is the only eu institution standing up for citizens’ views and opposing the use of cloning in the food chain. the cross-party support for this position reflects the clear message from public opinion polls on this issue, and i urge the council to take note of this when responding to parliament’s report.
in writing. scientific studies have demonstrated with overwhelming evidence that animal cloning is a danger to animal welfare. i therefore voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the cloning of bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine animals reared and bred for agricultural purposes. this report confirms the ban on the cloning of farm animals throughout the eu. because in third countries such as the usa, canada, argentina, brazil and australia, cloning of farmed animals is used, this report suspends the placing on the market of live cloned animals and cloned embryos and the marketing of food products such as meat and milk derived from cloned animals.
in writing. ‒ the european union's foundations are the respect and promotion of human rights, fundamental freedoms, democracy and the values enshrined in the instruments that guarantee its functioning and in the international treaties to which the union is a signatory. i believe that member states have a particular responsibility for implementing the provisions of the treaties which protect the rights and freedoms of citizens and are the basis of democracy and the rule of law. the treatment of the wave of migrants currently crossing europe by the authorities of some member states raises serious questions about the respect for fundamental rights and freedoms in the eu. we are facing a number of major problems that need an urgent and concrete response to eradicate poverty and social exclusion, reduce unemployment and provide equal treatment and opportunities to all its citizens, regardless of the country in which they are located. i welcome the importance of this report at such a crucial moment for europe, when i am convinced that mutual trust and shared responsibility should come first, in order to counter the danger highlighted by president juncker in the debate on the state of the union: 'an absence of europe in the european union and a lack of union in this european union'.
in writing. ‒ i believe that there is a need to improve coordination between the eu institutions and agencies and civil society organisations, and also to step up cooperation between the eu institutions and the member states, including between the european parliament and national parliaments, in order to raise awareness of the need to promote a culture of respect and tolerance, to end all forms of discrimination against women and to ensure the implementation of national strategies for respecting and protecting women's sexual and reproductive health and rights. i believe that the union's role in raising awareness in society and promoting good practice in this area should be emphasised, given that health is a fundamental right essential to the exercise of other human rights.
in writing. ‒ we must find a way to deal properly with breaches of the rule of law and fundamental rights in eu member states. an eu strategy should be accompanied by an action plan and include cooperation with civil society and the fundamental rights agency. it should be accompanied by a european union mechanism on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, as a tool for compliance with and enforcement of the charter and treaties as signed by all member states. i strongly support the inclusion of equality, the call to implement the anti-discrimination directive and ‘solidarity in the crisis’, the highlight on the negative impact on economic, civil, social and cultural rights of the financial and economic and sovereign debt crisis, resulting in increasing unemployment, poverty, precarious working and living conditions, as well as social exclusion and isolation. we must stand firm on our positions and remain a driving force for concerted and proactive eu action on human rights and the rule of law, especially in these very challenging times for europe.
in writing. ‒ taking into consideration that almost one third of the petitions received by parliament relate to alleged breaches of fundamental human rights, i have voted for this report with respect for fundamental rights in the european union today.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on this report because, although it starts from a positive premise, namely that it supports and encourages respect for fundamental human rights and the rule of law at eu level, the document at the same time touches on a number of contradictory and very sensitive issues in some european countries, including romania. the report makes a number of points, which i support, on respect for fundamental rights in eu member states such as equal opportunities and combating discrimination on grounds of gender, ethnic or religious origin. but at the same time, the proposed text ignores the fact that societies and mindsets in each member state are at different levels of acceptance and development, often for religious and cultural reasons. or, to require all societies in the member states to develop their collective minds at a common level, without distinguishing between the times required for these societies to go through a natural path of accommodation and acceptance, is an artificial forcing of evolution, with possible adverse reactions that are difficult to anticipate and much harder to correct later.
in writing. ‒ human rights are at the core of the eu’s principles and policies. it is one of the union's most precious foundations. nevertheless, institutional players and ngo's have been reporting on a high number of violations of fundamental rights within the territory of eu member states, particularly against ethnic minority groups. i believe that such violations should not be accepted or tolerated and we must come up with remedies to outstanding problems. the current report, which i supported in the plenary vote, offers few insights and recommendations on how to deal with these problems. it calls on member states to formulate an internal strategy on fundamental rights in the eu based on the enforcement of article 2 of the eu treaty. and it looks into thematic issues, including: equality, increasing unemployment, poverty, precarious working and living conditions, as well as social exclusion and isolation. although these recommendations relate to the period 2013-2014, they are even more valid for today, as flows of migrants and refugees into the eu increase. now more than ever the eu must ensure a universal respect for fundamental rights regardless to sex, religion, sexual orientation or skin colour.
in writing. ‒ the european convention on human rights was, until the treaty of lisbon, the legal basis for respect for human rights in the european union, but since the entry into force of this treaty, the charter of fundamental rights has been given the same value as the other treaties, which means that states are obliged to give priority to respect for human rights. i believe that this report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union is a way for the european union to become even more involved in the internal affairs of states, since i believe that each state is capable of defending human rights within its own borders. moreover, this report makes the border between the european union and the council of europe, the specialised human rights organisation, increasingly blurred. in my view, the european union should focus more on other areas, such as economic stability, which is often the cause of many violations of fundamental rights. moreover, it should pay close attention to the refugee crisis, which could lead to increased violations of fundamental rights. i therefore voted against the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the eu.
in writing. ‒ the practice of public hearings of commissioners-designate is a very useful exercise for potential members of the european commission, but especially for the interested public. even though these public hearings are not provided for in the treaty, they were conducted in a democratic and efficient manner. these have developed over the last 20 years at the insistence of the european parliament, which has asked candidate european commissioners to present their agendas to the commission and the committees corresponding to their portfolio before parliament gives its vote of confidence to the commission. in this context, although the opinions of the committees on individual commissioners have no legal significance, they are taken into account, so that when they have issued negative opinions, they have had the effect of changing the composition of the commission or redistributing portfolios. i voted in favour of the report on the procedures and practices relating to the hearing of commissioners, as the results have shown that this process reflects the political balance at commission level. moreover, the media showed a strong interest, not only through traditional channels but also through social media platforms, which resulted in hundreds of thousands of european citizens being informed about eu-level decision-making processes.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report, which clarifies the procedures and practices for future commissioner hearings. in particular, i agree on the idea that a deadline should be fixed for member states to put forward candidates and allow time for the allocation of portfolios and hearings; that each member state should put forward a female candidate and male candidate on equal footing for consideration; that each questionnaire will have the right to an immediate follow-up question; that the legal affairs committee needs to clarify the rules about how to manage commission's declaration of interest.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that will better regulate the commissioner hearings, a practice developed over the past 20 years at the insistence of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ the public hearings of prospective members of the european commission is a democratic exercise which provides the parliament and the public an opportunity to discover the personalities, the approach and the priorities of each candidate. the process produces political clarifications and commitments, adjustments to portfolios, and further clarity on the relationships between the vice—presidents and other commissioners. nevertheless, there is always room for improvement, and few propositions are outlined by the current report. for example, the report asks for a fixed deadline for member states to put forward candidates and allow time for the allocation of portfolios and hearings. it also asks the ep legal affairs committee to clarify the rules on how to manage designate commissioners’ declaration of interest and scope of application, to also include cover financial interests of family members. lastly, a recommendation which i particularly support, is the need to put forward at least two candidates, a male and a female, on an equal footing for consideration by the president-elect. drawing the lessons of this period, i welcome this report that clarifies the procedures and practices for future commissioner hearings, while providing inputs on how to improve the process.
some information and communications technologies produced in europe are sold and may be used in third countries by persons who are engaged in the mass collection of personal data for the purpose of unlawfully locating and eavesdropping on persons. it is very serious what is happening and that is why we must prohibit european companies from selling such technologies to people who are using them precisely to plan attacks against us. in this context, i ask the european commission to remove such companies from public tenders and also, when it comes to requests for aid to third countries, not to grant aid to those countries where human rights are trampled on and where there are groups of people or individuals who use technologies bought from us precisely for the destruction, location and identification of people and the destruction, i repeat, of democracy.
in writing. ‒ the internet has become a public space and also a developed single market, based on the free flow of information and access to information technology. in the 21st century, the internet is a revolution in the possibilities it offers for exchanging data, information or knowledge of any kind. at the same time, human rights and fundamental freedoms are universal and must be defended worldwide, regardless of the form in which they are expressed. the commission should be able to assess the compatibility of the measures with the internal market in accordance with article 108 (3) tfeu. the report also calls for clauses to be included in all agreements with third countries explicitly referring to the promotion, safeguarding and respect of digital freedom, uncensored and unrestricted access to the internet, the right to life and data protection. i voted in favour of the report because, in addition to the above, it draws attention to the development of icts in conflict zones for better security and respect for human rights.
in writing. ‒ given that technological systems can be misused as tools for human rights violations through censorship, surveillance, unauthorised access to devices, jamming, interception, tracking and tracing of information and people, it is important to implement conditions, benchmarks and reporting procedures to ensure that eu financial and technical support for the development of new technologies in third countries is not used in a way that violates human rights. the commission has a duty to pay particular attention to human rights issues in procurement processes for technological equipment, especially in countries with unsafe practices in this area.
in writing. ‒ if conducted outside an adequate legal framework surveillance of communications, as such, interferes with the rights to privacy and expression. security measures, including counter-terrorism measures, cannot be used as pretext for violations of the right of the privacy and for clamping down on the legitimate activities of human rights defenders, journalists and political activists. on the contrary, respect for fundamental rights is an essential element in successful counter-terrorism policies, including the use of digital surveillance technologies.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that will assess human rights impact and will make recommendations for adjustments that will increase the protection of human rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that fundamental human rights and freedoms are universal and must be defended worldwide, and in this respect the eu can and must lead by example. as the document adopted today states, technological developments and internet access have become indispensable to the lives of as many people as possible, and their use in an ethical manner, with full respect for the rights of those who access them, is essential for the eu, but also for third countries with which the eu has bilateral relations. there is a well-founded fear that insufficient regulation of the use of new communications technologies may, in some states, lead to human rights violations such as surveillance, interference or interception of citizens without a warrant from an independent judge. it is one of the reasons why i voted today in favour of this report, which condemns the misuse of technology and which tilts the balance towards the need to respect human freedoms and rights.
in writing. ‒ technology, particularly the new media, has two coins. it can be used as a tool for exercising the freedom of expression. however, it can also be used for violating human rights, particularly with regards to privacy and surveillance. with this current report, the parliament aims to address the use of technology in human rights violations. the position expressed in this report underlines that the surveillance of communications, if conducted outside an adequate legal framework, interferes with the rights to privacy and expression. the report requests coherence between the eu’s external actions and internal policies related to icts, in order to promote democratic oversight of security and intelligence services, and ensure european technologies do not contribute to human right violations in third countries. equally important, the report also notes the fact that security measures are increasingly used as pretext for violating the right to privacy and cracking on legitimate activities of human rights defenders, journalists and political activists. i strongly believe that technology should serve the voice of the people, not act against them. as a prominent human rights defender the eu has the responsibility to ensure our technologies protect and promote human rights, not the other way around, particularly in third countries.
i agree with the reduction of red tape in the implementation of the cap, especially in terms of simplifying the cumbersome and complex legislation governing greening, because this weight, difficulty and complexity of the legislation in practice prevents farmers from doing their job. you know how? the rules are like this: the simpler they are, the easier they are to enforce and the easier they are to check and control. more transparency means more clarity. i therefore agree with the report's calls for a reduction in red tape to reduce the error rate for the tools to be established to distinguish between error and fraud. the distinction between error and fraud is very important because omissions do not usually cause damage to the taxpayers' payers and also a fair balance is needed between a lower administrative burden for our farmers and effective financial control to ensure that money is used correctly.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the cap should be less bureaucratic, in order to reduce the error rate and to introduce new tools that make it possible to distinguish between errors in fraud cases. i welcome the commission's decision to extend the deadline for direct payment applications by one month and i consider this to be a step forward in reducing the error rate in the cap.
in writing. ‒ i support the commission’s initiative of simplifying the cap through measures which can be implemented quickly, as well as the reinforcement and stronger implementation of the single audit through the coordination of the control activities carried out by the various institutions. the complexity of the cap is due to the diversity of farming in europe; therefore, simplification must not result in a dismantling of the instruments that have been adopted. the cap must become less bureaucratic, with efficient instruments to distinguish between error and fraud. i welcome the adoption of this report, which represents a step ahead towards the fulfilment of the cap’s objectives and its effective implementation. it will ensure more mutual understanding and trust between the eu institutions and national and regional bodies.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that calls for further simplification and a reduced number of controls that will cut error rates and improve efficiency, reduce the cost and administrative burden borne by taxpayers and farmers and ensure that the budget will be well spent.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report in support of one of the most necessary common policies of the european union, namely the common agricultural policy. as the common agricultural policy has become an extremely complex and bureaucratic instrument in recent years as a result of several reforms, there has been a series of debates in which it has been shown that european farmers are facing difficulties and the number of errors on the ground has increased. in order to respond to these concerns and to continue to meet the objectives originally set, the report voted on today is beneficial. the document proposes to reduce the administrative burden and to ensure a supplementary, qualitative and well-structured financial control, instead of multiplying the number of checks. simplification and rationalisation of the cap are key to involving as many people as possible in agriculture, to keeping them and to professionalising them, with the ultimate aim of ensuring quality and affordable agricultural products at member state level.
mr president, despite the lack of clear and uniform criteria to define ‘family business’ across europe, and their vast heterogeneity in terms of incorporation form and size, there are various common traits which set them apart, such as a flexible decision-making process, a high degree of creativity and innovation, a longer-term view on investment, and high involvement and responsibility towards their business, customers, employees and their local community. it is because of such assets that they play a pivotal role in the regional and national economies and account for more than half of jobs in the private sector in europe. however, various studies conducted recently show that they also face similar difficulties in terms of access to finance, taxation, a stifling regulatory framework, and the challenge of attracting the right people with the right skills. coming from a region whose economy is overwhelmingly based on family companies i can only salute the drafting of this report and stress the importance for the european union of taking supportive measures in their regard.
in writing. ‒ the financial and economic crisis has had significant consequences. there are still some 25 million unemployed across the european union, and the number of young unemployed under 25 is over 5 million. in this context, promoting jobs, growth and investment is the number one priority of the political guidelines for the current european commission, as presented at the beginning of its mandate in the summer of 2014. in this context, family businesses can play a decisive role in overcoming the financial and economic crisis and in revitalizing the economy, and the conclusions reached by the european commission's expert group in its 2009 report highlighted that over 60% of eu businesses are family businesses, providing around 40-50% of private sector jobs. i voted in favour of the report on family businesses in europe because they have a longer-term vision than those not run by their owners, while also ensuring that future generations also achieve good economic performance.
in writing. ‒ family businesses make a key contribution to the success of vocational training reforms and to the growth of apprenticeships. in this context, i believe that, in the long term, functional vocational training systems can help to combat skills shortages and youth unemployment, and i believe that member states and the commission should promote the exchange of good practice on how vocational training systems can provide family businesses with the best environment for investing in apprentices.
in writing. ‒ family businesses play a significant role for the economic growth and social development, by decreasing the unemployment rate, and for very much needed investments in human capital. thanks to their transnational dimension and their multi-generational character, they reinforce the stability of the economy. and since not all 28 eu member states have specific structures to serve their needs, i welcome the initiative to better adjust eu legislation to the reality, assisting the family businesses to benefit from funding programmes and from reduction in red tape (excessive regulation). we indeed require more data, facts and figures from the member states to better understand their challenges. in respect to the importance of this group of entrepreneurs, we need to provide support where it is needed, by determining if the proposed changes to eu law have effects on family businesses and, if so, to identify them.
in writing. ‒ more than 60% of all enterprises in the european union are family-run, and they account for about 40-50% of jobs in the private sector. i have voted for this report that will conduct an impact assessment on family businesses that play such an important role in our economy.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report because i believe that family businesses play a significant role in driving the european union's economy. a number of reports have shown that small family businesses have contributed to the recovery of the european economy and have played an important role in promoting economic growth and social development, reducing unemployment, especially among young people, and investing in human capital. today's report presents the problems and difficulties specific to these small firms, referring in particular to the inequalities between them, and i believe that the problem exists in all european states, including romania. in this respect, as the report proposes, member states and regional and local authorities should stimulate and strengthen entrepreneurship, simplify and de-bureaucratize the work of european businesses, provide tax incentives for businesses and other compensation to help women and men working as employees, as self-employed workers or as managers of family businesses to reconcile family life with professional life, creating an environment conducive to economic performance.
in writing. ‒ family run businesses provide a significant financial contribution to the eu’s economy. it is estimated that over 60% of all enterprises in the eu are family-run, accounting for about 40-50% of jobs in the private sector. the current report aims to draw attention to this important group of entrepreneurs by exploring ways to foster their economic contribution while addressing some of the challenges this group is facing. one of the main challenges the report presents is the lack of a formal definition to ‘family business’. with over 90 definitions used by the different member states, some family businesses find themselves struggling with red tape and restrictions on access to funding. moreover, in the absence of data, facts and figures on the activity of family businesses in the different member states we are unable to design policies that could better assess the challenges family businesses are facing, or exchange best case practices. by aiming to tackle these issues, this report sets in place the right conditions for the succession of family business in europe. its adoption in plenary demonstrate the parliament's commitment and support to this important business community.
in writing. ‒ in the context of a slow recovery of the european labour market after a long economic and social crisis, i believe that the role of the european union is to actively support and facilitate the creation and development of family businesses. family businesses account for 85% of all european enterprises, providing 60% of private sector jobs. moreover, as this report shows, they contribute substantially to the sustainable development of the european economy and to reducing unemployment, especially among young people. given the importance of these family businesses, i believe it is more than necessary for the european union to find sustainable solutions to the administrative, financial and fiscal obstacles faced by family businesses. in my view, the commission should call on the member states to review their tax policy, given that inheritance and gift taxes are often far too high, often leading to the disappearance of family businesses. the right to property, enshrined in the eu charter of fundamental rights, must be fully protected. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the report on family businesses in europe.
in writing. ‒ family businesses play a very important role in the european economy, but unfortunately, political actors pay them little attention. over 60% of enterprises in the european union are family businesses, providing around 40-50% of private sector jobs. although the european commission established a definition of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) in 2003, the same cannot be said for family businesses. in 2009, a group of experts from the european commission tried to follow this example and establish a definition that is not legally binding and does not apply in some member states. therefore, it is not possible to collect comparable data from eu member states to draw attention to the situation, needs and outstanding economic performance of family businesses. the european parliament resolution draws attention to the need for a european definition and proposes, inter alia, the creation of a single window for enterprises, which would serve as a european contact point for family enterprises and family business interest groups and provide assistance on specific issues, in particular on european legislation and access to eu funding.
in writing. as family businesses represent over 60% of businesses in the eu and provide around 50% of private sector jobs, i welcome the initiative of my colleague angelika niebler to produce a report focusing on this topic. we voted for this report because family businesses are extremely important for the european economy, but they receive too little attention from policy makers. i agree with the rapporteur's finding that many family businesses are desperately trying to stay below the threshold set by the european commission's sme criteria, and this has obvious consequences: family businesses stop recruiting to avoid an increase in income or turnover, which stops any growth. i am convinced that family businesses can play a decisive role in overcoming the financial and economic crisis and in revitalising the economy.
in writing. ‒ the blue economy is a set of economic activities related to the seas and oceans. in the current economic conditions, any alternative to the traditional economy is beneficial and can contribute to development in a beneficial way. i believe that in order to develop the blue economy, we need to focus on a range of economic activities that can meet the current needs of present and future generations. this type of economy needs to be supported by the european institutions and the member states because it can represent an opportunity for the development of island countries as well as coastal and outermost areas. i voted in favour of the report on the potential of research and innovation in the blue economy to generate jobs and growth because increased investment in innovation and research in the field of seas and oceans can be an effective tool to support the objectives of economic, social and territorial cohesion, thus leading to the reduction of development gaps between member states.
in writing. ‒ the european union has developed and proposed a set of programmes and guidelines that frame activities and innovation in the blue economy. i believe that this framework should be assessed from the point of view of its practical usefulness in supporting the efforts of member states and regional and local authorities to develop the blue economy. i also believe in the important role of new technologies in countering the degradation of marine ecosystems and in the links between the blue economy and the green economy, especially with regard to innovative methods of cleaning the seas, including the cost-effective recycling of polluting plastic materials.
in writing. ‒ oceans and seas can be source of growth, jobs, food, medicine and energy while protecting ecosystems for generations to come if they are managed in a responsible and sustainable manner. however, in order to make this possible, more research, knowledge, skills and data about our seas and oceans are needed. new technology, for example to counteract the degradation of marine ecosystems, or to capture and store carbon emissions, plays an important role. i support the importance of an integrated and coordinated approach and the need to consider the potential of carbon capture and storage, but in a balanced manner; i believe that the commission should further analyse how the technology and its accompanying infrastructure to transport the co2 safely and in a cost effective manner can be applied in an economically viable way.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that may be the answer to many of the major challenges to society being posed to humankind could be in the better marine knowledge and greater ability to use, manage and conserve the resources of our seas, oceans and coastal areas.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report on harnessing the potential of research and innovation in the blue economy because i believe it is an objective text, which manages to strike the right balance between the desire for development and the possible negative effects of overexploitation. it is clear that the blue economy represents one of the great opportunities for development and research worldwide, and the eu, through this report and the opinions of the other parliamentary committees, through the debates on this topic and through the funds allocated, is at the forefront of this development. however, as the opinion of the committee on fisheries, on which i worked as a shadow rapporteur, showed, we need to find the balance between the temptation to develop this new economy, with its incredible potential for research, innovation and job creation, and its impact on the environment. the text of this report succeeds in conveying exactly this kind of approach, between the caution of possible excess and the eu's desire to be at the forefront of the development of this new type of economy.
in writing. ‒ the concept of the blue economy covers a wide range of economic sectors linked to the seas and oceans, involving traditional and emerging sectors such as tourism, aquaculture, ports and logistics, shipbuilding and fisheries, to name a few. if properly managed and sustained, blue economy can be a source of growth, jobs, food and energy. however to achieve this goal we need more research, knowledge, skills and data about our seas and oceans. in this context, the current report makes few important recommendations. first, concerns the need to have an integrated and coordinated approach to the blue economy. second is the need to consider in a balance matter carbon capture and storage (ccs). third, is the importance to maintain, support and develop natural marine environments and biodiversity. i voted in favour of the report for the opportunities it offers to manage, and conserve the resources of our seas, oceans, and coastal areas.
in writing. ‒ in 2011, the commission adopted a communication on 'blue growth', which highlights the potential of europe's coastal areas and seas to be a major source of new jobs and growth, thereby contributing to the europe 2020 objectives. developing the potential of the blue economy in europe requires further action at both eu and member state level to address a number of issues, including: the significant lack of data on the seas and oceans, their resources and biodiversity and interactions with human activities; the need for strategic planning of activities in the blue economy; priority-oriented direct funding methods; and an action plan to stimulate the sector by 2020. there is also a need to create an appropriate financial framework to stimulate innovation, ensure the sustainable development of the blue economy and create jobs, combining, coordinating and facilitating access to the various available financial instruments.
in writing. ‒ there are 4.85 million young people in the european union who are currently unemployed. this phenomenon obliges us not to stand by and act as quickly as possible to reduce this extremely high number of young people not active in the labour market. the most concrete solutions are needed to support young people and guide them towards a profession appropriate to their studies. in this regard, the report on promoting entrepreneurship among young people through education and training provides an effective tool to motivate young people to start their own business and career and ultimately succeed in this career. strengthening entrepreneurship education in schools, vocational education institutions and universities will have a positive impact on the dynamic nature of entrepreneurship in european economies. i voted in favour of the report mentioned above because investment in entrepreneurship education is one of the most profitable investments the european union can make.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament wants to contribute to common european objectives in the field of youth entrepreneurship by monitoring the quality of education. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. i support 'entrepreneurship education' at all levels because i believe it is an effective tool to motivate young people to follow a decision-making process and start and successfully sustain their own businesses or careers.
in writing. ‒ i support and agree with the rapporteur that 'entrepreneurship education' at all levels can be a very effective tool to motivate young people to follow a decision-making process, to start their own business and career and also to succeed in this career. i believe this is an approach that supports young people by developing their creativity, risk-taking, failure management and responsible behaviour, which are absolutely necessary in europe today.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the acknowledgement, in the report, of the very positive impact on individuals entrepreneurship, as it helps increasing their career ambitions and chances, equips them with competences such as critical thinking, sense of initiative, creativity, innovation and risk-taking, increases interest in venturing business and even the completion of secondary education. teaching and learning entrepreneurship is extremely important at all levels of formal education, as well as that non-formal and informal learning is a privileged environment to acquire entrepreneurship competences. i strongly support the call for development of educational standards for entrepreneurship education and their integration into national curricula, including the strong emphasis on teacher training, ensuring necessary finances, enough attention to monitoring and evaluation of results, and their impact on society and economy.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that will set out the main principles for the support of entrepreneurship education and create a strategic, legislative and financial framework for the coordination and implementation of educational activities in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the european union must respond with one voice to a problem common to all member states. we need common european legislation on promoting pre-entrepreneurship among young people through education and training. as stated in the document adopted today, fostering entrepreneurship among young people must be an important part of the political strategy to support today's young generation and to meet the eu's objectives on growth, employment, education and social inclusion, and reducing youth unemployment in the european union. in this respect, the inclusion of career guidance services in the education system at european level to promote entrepreneurship as a career option and encourage the young generation to set up their own business ideas is the basis of the european economy and the main source of new jobs. however, we must not forget the entrepreneurial potential of women, which is an under-exploited source of economic growth and job creation.
in writing. ‒ entrepreneurs are at the backbone of our economy. they contribute to job creation, opening up new markets, and nurturing new skills. young entrepreneurs, in particular, have an important role to play, as their activity contributes to decreasing the high number of youth unemployment across the eu. support to entrepreneurs through training and educational programmes is one way to promote the activity of existing ones, and encourage new individuals to become entrepreneurs. the current report addresses this issue by highlighting the value of youth entrepreneurship through education and training. it rightly points out to the benefits of making these programmes available. for example: increasing career ambitions and chances of individuals, equipping them with competences such as critical thinking, sense of initiative, creativity, innovation and risk-taking, increasing interest in venturing business. it also calls on emphasizing the standards for entrepreneurship education and their integration into national curricula, including teacher training, while also ensuring necessary finances for programmes. i support the report and the proposals outlined in it as i strongly believe that teaching and learning entrepreneurship in all levels of formal education, as well as that non-formal and informal learning, is a positive step for creating employment and stimulating economic activity.
in writing. ‒ youth unemployment is one of the main challenges facing europe today, with the youth unemployment rate at an average of 22%, reaching 50% in some member states. i strongly believe that in order to increase the employability of young people, equipping them with key skills and knowledge that are fully useful in the labour market, such as the spirit of initiative, has become a priority. indeed, the gap between education and labour market demands is one of the main causes of unemployment among young people. in this regard, i believe that the promotion of entrepreneurship should be done above all at institutional level, through education, so that pupils and students acquire the necessary knowledge for a good adaptation to the labour market and become competitive in the professional environment. the promotion of entrepreneurship is undoubtedly an effective way of combating social exclusion and stimulating the economy, while fostering social cohesion and the spirit of innovation. the commission should therefore encourage member states to include entrepreneurship education in school and university curricula. that is why i voted in favour of the report on promoting entrepreneurship among young people through education and training.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on promoting entrepreneurship among young people through education and training. i welcome the proposals made in this report to encourage better cooperation and exchange of good practice by the commission between member states that have already integrated entrepreneurship education into their curricula and have made better progress in promoting youth entrepreneurship and those member states that are still at the beginning of this process. i appreciate that the commission is asked to publish, by the end of 2017, a guide to good practice for the transfer of entrepreneurial skills and support for entrepreneurship among young people in the member states to be presented to the european parliament, as well as a report on this subject which also includes the results of this initiative in the evaluation of its own funding measures.
in writing. ‒ cultural heritage is one of the pillars of european culture and represents our common legacy to bequeath to future generations. at the same time, any cultural heritage policy should take into account two perspectives: the first takes into account cultural heritage which can be a significant source of jobs and income, and the second for the main value of cultural heritage remains its cultural value. it is also important to take into account that the economic potential of cultural heritage is enormous and that we can give culture a prominent place on the public agenda. culture could also play an important role in the eu's external relations, being seen as an asset that europe has. i voted in favour of the report 'on an integrated approach to european cultural heritage' because it makes a number of welcome recommendations on the training, skills and mobility of cultural heritage professionals and highlights the importance of access for young heritage professionals to the cultural employment market.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the role of cultural heritage in the union's external relations through political dialogue and cooperation with third countries is clear, and i believe that the member states, the commission and the council must relaunch cultural diplomacy through interdisciplinary research projects on the preservation of cultural heritage involving both the member states of the european union and countries outside the union.
in writing. ‒ i would like to state my support for the proposal of designating, preferably in 2018, a european year of cultural heritage to disseminate and increase awareness and education in respect of the values of the european cultural heritage and its protection. i am confident that, through this report, we will be able to highlight the undervalued role of the europe’s cultural heritage as a source of social innovation for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, tackle the challenges such as lack of finances, technological change and globalization, influx of tourism, trafficking of cultural goods and so on; that we will seize the opportunities such as innovation in conservation, digitization and online accessibility, creation of open networks and reaching wider and more diverse audiences, and strengthen policy cooperation on all levels, all that towards achieving an integrated approach on the european level. cultural heritage is one of the pillars of the european culture and needs to be preserved and fostered through an integrated and coordinated policy in order to preserve it for future generations, as well as to realize its potential as a source of sustainable jobs and growth.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that was built on the latest policy documents issued in relation to the theme of cultural heritage and resumes the key points of the public debate around this topic.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my colleague mircea diaconu's report because i am convinced that the cultural component must be at the heart of any economic and social development. we cannot evolve as states or as individuals without knowing our history, without harnessing and conserving our most impressive monuments, cathedrals, castles, all of these works of art that define our civilization, our way of life and our way of thinking. the european cultural heritage is naturally heterogeneous, reflecting cultural and linguistic diversity and european pluralism, and its effects are manifested in regional development, social cohesion, agriculture, maritime affairs, environment, tourism, education, digital agendas, external relations, customs cooperation, research, innovation. in this regard, today's report shows how important it is that the available financial and human resources are used to support, enhance and promote cultural heritage on the basis of an integrated approach, taking into account also the cultural, economic, social, historical, educational and environmental components. i also believe that the report's proposal for the strong engagement of member states, the eu and the international community in prevention, protection, documentation and restoration activities in situations where eu or third country cultural heritage is threatened and intentionally damaged is absolutely beneficial for the integration and preservation of european cultural heritage.
in writing. ‒ our cultural heritage represents a rich and diverse mosaic of our inheritance from previous generations and our legacy for those to come. it is an important resource for economic growth, employment and social cohesion, offering the potential to revitalise urban and rural areas and promote sustainable tourism. to better preserve, foster and realise the potential of our european heritage, we need an integrated and coordinated approach to culture heritage based on improved coordination and communication between different policy areas, better access to information and increased funding opportunities through eu programmes (i:e. erasmus, european capitals of culture). the report also recommends designating 2018 as the european year on culture heritage. while i support this initiative, i also believe we must see cultural heritage in a broader context, particularly with regards to tourism. as the two themes go hand-in-hand a european year on cultural heritage and tourism will surely raise awareness to europe’s touristic, historical and cultural diversity. nonetheless, i support the elements in this report and view its adoption as a way forward in the promotion of an integrated policy, one that not only preserves our heritage but also realizes its potential as a source of sustainable jobs and growth.
in writing. ‒ europe's cultural heritage is our common heritage, the legacy that previous generations of europeans have left us and that we, in turn, will leave to future generations. it is a valuable resource for economic growth and job creation and a factor of social cohesion. our cultural heritage and the way we preserve it therefore determine europe's place in the world and the attraction that this continent has for those who live, reside or travel here. cultural heritage may face more challenges than other sectors to which more importance is attached. although there are many opportunities for european funding for these sectors, information is often not always passed on to beneficiaries. in this context, this report proposes the creation of an eu-wide cultural heritage portal that would collect information from all eu funding programmes. furthermore, this report supports the digitisation of cultural heritage as a way to protect our past and as a tool that can offer many opportunities for research and, by implication, economic development. i therefore voted in favour of the report 'on an integrated approach to european cultural heritage'.
in writing. ‒ in july 2014, the european commission presented a communication entitled 'on an integrated approach to european cultural heritage'. this document presents the union's approach to heritage in different policy areas and outlines the tools available at eu level that complement national and regional programmes to help protect and enhance the intrinsic and social value of europe's cultural heritage. the aim of the communication is to help member states and stakeholders make the most of the considerable support available under eu instruments and to move towards a more integrated approach at national and eu level, ultimately turning europe into a laboratory for heritage-based innovation. the european parliament resolution underlines the need for an integrated approach to european cultural heritage, which will lead to the enhancement and promotion of this heritage, and proposes, inter alia, the creation of a single european portal to include information from all eu programmes for the financing of european cultural heritage. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. i come from transylvania, a region that boasts a rich cultural heritage that fully reflects the multiculturalism of life here and that we have a duty to protect. this is just one of the reasons why i welcome the approach of my colleague, mr mircea diaconu, in his report on european cultural heritage. we voted for the report on an integrated approach to cultural heritage, which is comprehensive and inclusive. i appreciate that the report also highlights the importance of the sme sector in this area.
mr president, right2water is the first citizens' initiative to have gathered almost two million signatures from european citizens. i am very pleased that it has also succeeded in passing the legislative conditions imposed by the treaty. what do people ask of us? the people who voted for us want to be heard, it's natural to do that and to want that and to demand the right to clean water. i therefore ask the european commission to respect the wishes of almost two million people and to come up with a draft directive recognising the human right to water and fully integrating universal access to water and sanitation into union policies. it should also be remembered that member states have very important obligations themselves: they must require water suppliers to indicate the physico-chemical characteristics of the water on water bills, to approve urban planning plans that have been drawn up in relation to the water resources of the places concerned and also to develop immediate actions for the sanitation of toxic substances in drinking water and their removal.
in writing. ‒ currently, 748 million people lack sustainable access to safe drinking water and one third of the world's population lacks access to basic sanitation. this is regrettable and illustrates the polarity between the regions. drinking water must be made available to all european citizens. water and its treatment must be a priority for the eu. i voted in favour of the report entitled 'monitoring the european citizens' initiative right2water' because access to water must be a fundamental human right and the eu institutions and member states must take all necessary measures to ensure that all citizens have access to water and sanitation services.
in writing. ‒ i believe that member states and local and regional authorities must move towards a genuine social agreement on water, with the aim of guaranteeing the availability, stability and safe management of the resource, in particular by adopting policies such as the establishment of water solidarity funds and other social action mechanisms, to support people who cannot afford access to water supply and sanitation services, so as to meet the requirements of security of supply and not to jeopardise the human right to water. i believe that all member states must introduce social action mechanisms, such as those already in place in some countries of the union, to ensure the supply of drinking water to citizens who are facing real difficulties.
in writing. ‒ it is highly disappointing that the response given by the commission is insufficient, does not address in a proper manner the issues raised by the european citizens initiative organisers and does not present fresh ideas and measures that may help to achieve the goals. i therefore welcome the fact that the report addresses in detail the demands presented by the organisers of the eci right2water. in particular, i agree on the idea that the european commission should propose legislation implementing the human right to water and sanitation as recognised by the united nations. water is a basic human right and should be accessible and affordable to all. i believe that eu should remain neutral in relation to national decisions governing the ownership regime of water undertakings and thus by no means to promote their privatisation. we must push for a full integration of universal access to water and sanitation in the eu development policies.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report, which has as its main objectives to ensure that all citizens enjoy the right to water and sanitation and to make sure that water supply and water resources will not be subject to internal market rules.
in writing. ‒ clean water is one of the most basic factors that contribute to our way of living. therefore it is not surprising that the european citizen’s initiative (eci) right2water received over 1.6 million verified signatures, making it the first successful eci. what is surprising, however, is the commission’s response to the right2water eci. although the commission made few important statements following the adoption of right2water, like recognizing that water is not a commercial product, the commission failed to address the demands made by the signatories of the eci and commit to legislation which would recognise the right to water as a human right. acting this way, the commission undermined not only the right to water, but the eci mechanism as a whole. on this background, the current report addresses in more details the demands presented by the organizers of right2water. mainly it calls on the commission to propose legislation that will recognize the right to water and sanitation as a human right. i believe water must be made accessible and affordable to all. the current report backs this notion and brings back to the discussion on the right2water. my hope is that the commission will not fail us the second time around.
in writing. ‒ the citizens' initiative 'right to water' is the first successful example of this democratic mechanism. the aim of this initiative is to ensure that european union governments provide all its citizens with safe drinking water and adequate sanitation and that these services are not subject to common market rules. access to water should, in my view, be a constitutional right guaranteed to everyone; therefore, water and sanitation should be excluded from any trade agreements the european union is considering. water is a cause of inequality and social exclusion, it is a right closely linked to the right to the highest standard of physical and mental health, as well as to the right to life and human dignity. for example, in romania, at the end of 2013, 1,3% of urban and 28,3% of rural localities in romania did not have water distribution networks. in these circumstances, i believe that viable and rapid solutions are needed to ensure this right for citizens, both romanian and european, and therefore i voted in favour of the citizens' initiative 'right to water'.
in writing. i voted for the report on the actions taken as a result of the european citizens' initiative (ice) right to water - right2water - even though there are many statements, findings and proposals in it with which i do not agree. i voted for this report for two reasons. first, the eci is a very valuable instrument of participatory democracy that can have a significant impact on bringing eu citizens closer to the european institutions and increasing their trust in legislative procedures. 1.9 million eu citizens have expressed their support for the right2water initiative, and the voice of these citizens is forcing us to respond in concrete ways. secondly, the un recognises the right of every citizen to water and sanitation, and the eu must be at the forefront of this global movement. it seems paradoxical to me that in the eu of the 21st century, there are over a million citizens who do not have access to water and almost 10 million europeans who do not have access to sanitation. i voted first on the alternative motion by the ppe and the ecr and i regret that this much more balanced position than that of the rapporteur, mr boylan, was not successful in the plenary.
mr president, we all want the current emergency measures to succeed and wish to see both the suffering of migrants in overcrowded camps eased and the pressure on frontline member states alleviated. but we are also aware that the scale of this migratory flow demands more than just dealing with the effects of catastrophes in neighbouring countries, and that thus far we have been unable to handle the problems it causes. there can be no long-lasting solution without comprehensive global measures to combat islamist terror in the middle east. what is also required is humanitarian assistance, safe zones close to the areas of conflict and well-targeted aid for trade and development for africa. we must also determine what action is needed both in the european union and in countries of origin. our asylum system places a disproportionate weight on countries of arrival and final destination. the common european asylum system in all member states is yet to be effectively implemented and we lack a list of safe countries that would enable us to better protect the most vulnerable, who need our help the most.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the debate on the report by tamás deutsch, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on 'investment for jobs and growth: promoting economic, social and territorial cohesion in the european union' [2014/2245 ((ini)) ] (a8-0173/2015) and on the report by kerstin westphal, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on the urban dimension of eu policies [2014/2213 ((ini)) ] (a8-0218/2015).
the next item is the debate on the recommendation of joão ferreira on behalf of the committee on fisheries on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the republic of guinea-bissau (11667/2012 - c8-0278/2014 - 2012/0134 ((nle)) (a8-0233/2015), the report by joão ferreira on behalf of the committee on fisheries, containing a non-legislative proposal for a resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the republic of guinea-bissau by way of the fisheries partnership agreement (2015/05/05 - c8-0195/2020) (a8-0295/2015) and the protocol between the european union and the republic of guinea-bissau by way of the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the republic of guinea-bissau (2015/05/0218/a8 ((a8-0234)) (c08-0238/2015)), the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the protocol between the european union and the republic of cape verde and the republic of madagascar on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the protocol between the european union and the european union on the fishing opportunities and the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for the republic of cape verde and the republic of guinea-bissau agreement (2015/08/2015 - c8/2015 - c8-0238-0238/2015 - citi) on the proposal for a decision on the protocol between the proposal for a decision of the european union and the protocol on fishing opportunities and the financial contribution of the union and the protocol between the union and the cape verde fisheries partners
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, urbanization, globalisation and demographic changes in our society are forcing us to rethink how the transport system works and to look at the measures proposed four years ago in the white paper on transport. we have negotiated an ambitious agenda to bring about structural changes in this system and to create a truly single european transport area. this space will have to accommodate an increasing demand for mobility and meet the needs of passengers, goods and services in the 21st century. for that reason, i brought back and put the passenger at the center of the discussion. i believe that we need to raise the quality of work in all transport sectors by setting minimum standards first. in the labour market, we must seize the opportunity to apply the principle of equal opportunities and make this field much more attractive to women. a transport system of the future can only be one without barriers of any kind and using all modes of transport in a sustainable way. that means we need both physical infrastructure and digital infrastructure. all our efforts must be focused on connecting border areas and peripheral regions with the other regions of the union so that passengers, goods and services can move freely and efficiently. infrastructure investments in these areas are considered to have a significant impact on territorial cohesion and the elimination of disparities in infrastructure development between eastern and western europe. the increased urbanization brings into question the need to improve and increase the capacity of public transport. urban centres are also the places where we face the negative effects of transport on a daily basis, whether in the form of carbon emissions or air quality or traffic congestion. integrated mobility services and real-time information provision will bring us closer to the goal of transitioning to sustainable transport modes. transport is a driving force of the european union, essential for the development of related industries such as tourism, on which the existence of connections between the infrastructure network, the efficiency of mobility, but also the quality of services for passengers depend.
in writing. i fully agree with much of the position expressed by the president of the european commission. it is true that neither politically nor institutionally can the european union ignore the problems it faces. the mere 'normal' functioning of the european institutions is not enough to overcome the clear obstacles to the european project. however, the future of the eu cannot be reduced to a simple appeal for solidarity around a cause that has not been sufficiently debated. the refugee problem is just the final expression of some deep-seated problems of european societies that have long been ignored: the proliferation of populist, xenophobic discourse has emerged within the union in relation to poor workers who have chosen to seek work in richer states. discrimination has been elevated by political forces to the status of a governmental objective, in defiance of existing european norms. the eu must act boldly: it must adopt a tough foreign policy capable of facing increasingly complex external challenges, and a social policy capable of generating real prosperity and respect for rights. the call for solidarity must remain a permanent landmark, not a mere act of will.
in writing. i fully agree with president juncker's statement that there is too little europe in the eu and there is too little union in the eu. this is why we need a new europe in which, when we call for solidarity, we rely on solidarity shared before. i believe that the solidarity demanded of the eastern european states to assume mandatory quotas for the relocation of refugees evokes in romania and bulgaria precisely the lack of solidarity with which we were treated in the process of accession to the schengen area for political reasons that did not relate to the fulfilment of the conditionalities of the agreement. i welcome the determination of president juncker to say that the schengen system will not be abolished during the term of office of this commission. i would have welcomed it with even greater joy if it had been followed by firm assurances given to romania and bulgaria. the message from the european electorate in 2014, as it is today, is that we need a new europe. the picture that the state of the union address paints today is that of a new europe as the citizens want it. it is important to act now and the ep must be at the forefront of change and the engine of building the new europe of solidarity.
in writing. europe is facing a crisis that is getting worse every day and we need to respond to it urgently. increasing refugee reception capacities within the eu's borders without europe's determined and consistent involvement is not a solution, it will only add new waves of refugees and exacerbate humanitarian problems. the root cause needs to be addressed: economic underdevelopment and lack of opportunity. this is demonstrated by the contrast between countries in the vicinity of conflicts, such as qatar, oman or kuwait, and those that have become the home of war and terrorist groups. some member states, including romania, have not faced such problems and must seek the financial and logistical support of the eu and countries with experience in building and managing refugee centres to treat this joint humanitarian effort with the utmost seriousness and responsibility. i visited refugee camps and talked to people who are living through this drama. they want to go home. i expect european leaders, deeply affected by the plight of refugees, to put demagoguery aside and act decisively, as they have unfortunately not done so far, to channel political, diplomatic, military and financial resources to stop the conflict and rebuild the affected areas.
in writing.– the current migration and refugee crisis will continue unless the root causes of the problem are addressed. eu crisis management structures should focus on the need to find sustainable solutions to the numerous conflicts in our neighbourhood. putting an end to the civil war in syria and fighting islamist terrorism such as isis/daesh should be at the top of the eu security and defence agenda. the proliferation of violent non-state actors in large parts of africa and the middle east has a direct link with the urgent migration crisis that europe is facing. the eu must play a more prominent role in finding a political solution to the syrian conflict and support actively the un-led negotiations to restore peace and stability in libya. the eu military operation eunavfor med must be integrated into a comprehensive strategy towards the migrants’ countries of origin and transit. we need to make better use of the comprehensive approach as a unique tool to coordinate our migration, development, diplomatic and security policies. in addition, we should continue and reinforce our support for syria’s neighbouring countries, namely turkey, jordan and lebanon, who have already taken in millions of migrants and refugees.
in writing. i find it unacceptable that hundreds of thousands of people, desperate indeed, are invading the cities of europe with no possibility of control. i fully agree that they need massive humanitarian aid, and i think that to do that, we need to urgently create refugee camps that are able to accommodate such a human influx. but we cannot leave unanswered the fundamental issue of the vulnerability of our maritime and land borders. the epidemiological and terrorist risks involved in the chaotic movement of hundreds of thousands of people across europe must also be considered. i would also like to draw attention to the eu's inability to anticipate this exodus. the talk of a few months ago about hosting a few tens of thousands of people is no longer relevant. we need measures to address the causes of this crisis. and the main cause is the so-called islamic state, whose bloody expansion can only be stopped by an intervention of a large international coalition, with european and arab participation, to restore peace in syria and iraq, to save the population subjected to the atrocities of the jihadists and to allow the millions of refugees from neighboring states to return to their countries of origin.
in writing. ‒ i voted for changing the name of the delegation for relations with palestine.
in writing. ‒ at the moment, guinea-bissau is one of the poorest countries, with one of the lowest gdp per capita in the world. the state's economy is extremely dependent on fisheries resources, so the food dependence on fisheries is significant. as early as 2014, the european union resumed cooperation with guinea-bissau, at which time negotiations on the protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement were also re-launched. with the suspension of negotiations with mauritania, the eu-guinea-bissau fisheries agreement has gained in importance, and can even be considered as one of the most important fisheries agreements, allowing access to mixed fisheries areas. i voted in favour of this recommendation, which will allow eu vessels to fish in the exclusive economic zone of guinea-bissau, within the limits of the available surplus, with the aim of developing the local industry in this sector and developing the country's economy.
in writing. ‒ i support the implementation of the fisheries partnership agreements with guinea bissau, cape verde and madagascar, as they will provide fishing opportunities for eu vessels in the exclusive economic zones within the limits of the available surplus. they will grant support to the development of a good fisheries policy and grant eu vessels more fishing opportunities while respecting the environment. at the same time, they will help the development of a sustainable fisheries policy in those countries and promote the responsible exploitation of fishery resources. those protocols is of great importance from a financial perspective and for the country’s economy, in particular for the fisheries sector and the development of the local fisheries industry, and provides for enhanced scientific and administrative cooperation, while combating iuu fishing (illegal, unreported and unregulated). considering their importance for the partner countries and the eu fleets operating in these waters, i support their approval.
in writing. ‒ the eu-guinea-bissau fisheries agreement has gained added importance following the suspension of negotiations with mauritania. i voted for this recommendation regarding one of the most important agreements into force.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that this new fisheries protocol between the eu and the republic of guinea-bissau is necessary and fair for both parties. the amounts to be paid by the eu over the next three years will help the government of guinea-bissau to develop the country's fishing and fish processing industry, as happened in 2014 when a health laboratory was opened to allow the certification of products for export to the eu. the agreement also gives eu-flagged vessels access to guinea-bissau's marine resources, bringing high-quality products to european consumers.
in writing. ‒ i support the implementation of the fisheries partnership agreements with guinea bissau, capo verde and madagascar, as they will provide fishing opportunities for eu vessels in the exclusive economic zones within the limits of the available surplus. they will grant support to the development of a good fisheries policy and grant eu vessels more fishing opportunities while respecting the environment. at the same time, they will help the development of a sustainable fisheries policy in those countries and promote the responsible exploitation of fishery resources. those protocols are of great importance from a financial perspective and for the country’s economy, in particular for the fisheries sector and the development of the local fisheries industry, and provides for enhanced scientific and administrative cooperation, while combating iuu fishing (illegal, unreported and unregulated). considering their importance for the partner countries and the eu fleets operating in these waters, i support their approval.
in writing. ‒ the eu-guinea-bissau fisheries agreement has gained added importance following the suspension of negotiations with mauritania. i voted for this report that better regulates this agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on my own initiative because it highlights very well the issues that the european commission must take into account in the new eu-guinea-bissau fisheries agreement. while this agreement is necessary and fair for both parties, as this report also highlights, it is imperative that the funds paid by the eu to guinea-bissau are used in a transparent manner and help to develop the country's fisheries and fish processing industry. without such development, guinea-bissau will not be able to add value to its own fishery products. and without sustainable and sustainable development, these funds will never be enough to help the people of guinea-bissau to escape from the poverty they are in.
in writing. ‒ fishing is one of the european union's significant economic activities, providing 2% of the gross domestic product of the member states. in this context, the union institutions should attach due importance to the development of this sector. as the law of the sea provides for the exploitation of marine resources in cooperation with countries in geographical areas close to the constituent territories of the european union, it is necessary to regulate clearly the relations of those countries with the eu from the fisheries perspective. the last fisheries partnership agreement with guinea-bissau was concluded in 2007 and operated until 2012, when it was interrupted due to the unstable political situation in that country. the adoption of a new agreement is now required, which will clearly regulate fishing quotas between the eu and guinea-bissau, all the more so as the annual financial support from the eu is considerable, amounting to over eur 9 million, covering the prevention of illegal fishing and the development of legal fishing, as well as better development prospects for this country. although there are still some problems with the efficient use of these funds by the bissau authorities, i believe we can support this document as being in the interest of both parties.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation, which aims to extend the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of cape verde for another four years. the eu and cape verde have been partners in this area since 1990. the general objective is to strengthen cooperation between the european union and the republic of cape verde with a view to establishing a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fishery resources in the cape verdean fishing zone, in the interest of both parties. last but not least, the protocol contributes to the conservation of fisheries resources, to combating illegal fishing and to training and supporting local fishermen.
in writing. ‒ i support the implementation of the fisheries partnership agreements with guinea bissau, cape verde and madagascar, as they will provide fishing opportunities for eu vessels in the exclusive economic zones within the limits of the available surplus. they will grant support to the development of a good fisheries policy and grant eu vessels more fishing opportunities while respecting the environment. at the same time, they will help the development of a sustainable fisheries policy in those countries and promote the responsible exploitation of fishery resources. those protocols are of great importance from a financial perspective and for the country’s economy, in particular for the fisheries sector and the development of the local fisheries industry, and provide for enhanced scientific and administrative cooperation, while combating iuu fishing (illegal, unreported and unregulated). considering their importance for the partner countries and the eu fleets operating in these waters, i support their approval.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this recommendation for the protocol between the european union and the republic of cape verde so that it will comply with the new common fisheries policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the fisheries protocol between the eu and cape verde, as it supports and analyses in an objective way the results of the negotiations between the representatives of the two parties. the new protocol with the republic of cape verde is a fair and necessary one for both parties. it provides that vessels flying the flag of an eu member state will have access to cape verde's marine resources, and that the eu will compensate for this access by paying €3.3 million over the next 4 years. these agreements, concluded on the basis of the new principles contained in the common european fisheries policy, are essential for european fishermen and consumers as well as for third countries. it is very important that the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing is a central point in this protocol and the republic of cape verde has committed itself to using the amounts paid by the eu in this fight. at the same time, it is essential that all eu vessel activity is monitored and analysed to ensure that we use marine resources in a sustainable way and in line with the objectives of our own common fisheries policy.
in writing. ‒ i support the implementation of the fisheries partnership agreements with guinea bissau, cape verde and madagascar, as they will provide fishing opportunities for eu vessels in the exclusive economic zones within the limits of the available surplus. they will grant support to the development of a good fisheries policy and grant eu vessels more fishing opportunities while respecting the environment. at the same time, they will help the development of a sustainable fisheries policy in those countries and promote the responsible exploitation of fishery resources. those protocols are of great importance from a financial perspective and for the country’s economy, in particular for the fisheries sector and the development of the local fisheries industry, and provides for enhanced scientific and administrative cooperation, while combating iuu fishing (illegal, unreported and unregulated). considering their importance for the partner countries and the eu fleets operating in these waters, i support their approval.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report that better regulates the protocol between the european union and the republic of cape verde in order for it to comply with the new common fisheries policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of this own-initiative report, which complements the picture of the eu-cape verde fisheries partnership agreement. this report sets out the concerns we in the parliament's committee on fisheries had about certain aspects of this new agreement. it is very important that, throughout the duration of this new agreement, the joint monitoring committee established for this purpose closely monitors incidental catches of sharks in the area which, for certain species, have exceeded the quotas considered to be incidental. eu flag vessels must fish in accordance with the objectives of the common fisheries policy, must respect international and local law and, not least, must do so in a sustainable manner. i therefore support the provision in this report that the european commission must ensure that all our values and objectives are respected, while at the same time asking the joint committee to take the necessary measures when and if they are needed.
in writing. ‒ as i said, fishing is one of the significant economic activities of the european union and its member states. one of the countries close to eu territories that offers the conditions for fisheries cooperation is cape verde. the fisheries partnership agreement with cape verde was concluded in 2007 and operated until the end of 2014. at this time, there is a provisional agreement in place that needs our approval. the agreement will regulate, among other things, shark fishing quotas, ensuring that the amount does not endanger ocean biodiversity, but also a substantial annual financial contribution to cape verde of half a million euro, which will allow this country to effectively fight illegal fishing and develop legal fishing. for these reasons, i believe that the adoption of this agreement is necessary, which will support both parties and will sustainably promote the interests of the union in the fisheries sector.
in writing. ‒ i support the implementation of the fisheries partnership agreements with guinea bissau, cape verde and madagascar, as they will provide fishing opportunities for eu vessels in the exclusive economic zones within the limits of the available surplus. they will grant support to the development of a good fisheries policy and grant eu vessels more fishing opportunities while respecting the environment. at the same time, they will help the development of a sustainable fisheries policy in those countries and promote the responsible exploitation of fishery resources. those protocols is of great importance from a financial perspective and for the country’s economy, in particular for the fisheries sector and the development of the local fisheries industry, and provides for enhanced scientific and administrative cooperation, while combating iuu fishing (illegal, unreported and unregulated). considering their importance for the partner countries and the eu fleets operating in these waters, i support their approval.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this recommendation regarding the partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of madagascar that has arisen from the interest of both sides and also from vessel owners after several meetings between the parties. the partnership is intended to promote the responsible exploitation of madagascar’s fishery resources, providing an opportunity to boost economic growth, improve the human rights situation and conditions for workers (and for women in particular) and eradicate illegal child labour in this area.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it presents in an objective way and supports the new fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and the republic of madagascar. it is very important for eu flag vessels that these new agreements with third countries are fair and provide access to important fish resources. the agreement, as also presented in the report, is fair and respects the objectives and principles of the eu's new common fisheries policy. the agreement also provides that eu flag vessels are to be monitored to a certain extent and to employ on board a minimum number of fishermen from madagascar or the region. through such provisions, together with the amounts to be paid by the eu to the government of madagascar, the agreement ensures both sustainable and equitable exploitation of the region's fish resources.
in writing. ‒ fisheries cooperation between the european union and other countries does not only cover the sea areas near the european continental area, but also certain areas near island territorial units belonging to the member states but located in other ocean regions. one such example is the cooperation with madagascar, which concerns a maritime area in the indian ocean. the fisheries partnership agreement with madagascar, concluded in 2007, expired at the end of 2014. a provisional protocol is currently in force, which requires the approval of the european parliament. it complies with the relevant international agreements, including the measures required by the indian ocean tuna commission. the document also provides for a substantial annual financial contribution from the union of around eur 3 million for the first two years, which will help madagascar, a rather poor country, to combat illegal fishing and develop the fishing sector in general. in this respect, i believe that the present document should be adopted to meet the needs of both sides of development in this area.
in writing. ‒ once implemented, the agreement should increase trade flows, expand duty collection revenue as a result of higher trade volume and better detection of fraud, and improve the efficiency of customs administrations. transparency and automation measures will help to deal with border corruption. the oecd has estimated that implementing all the measures foreseen in the tfa would reduce total trade costs by 13-15.5% in developing countries, the potential benefits by far outweighing the mostly limited costs. along with making it easier, faster and cheaper to trade, removing administrative hurdles should also help developing countries and their businesses, including smes, to better integrate in regional and global value chains, and thus to reap greater benefits from international trade.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this recommendation for amending the marrakesh agreement that will amongst others allow developing and least developed countries to categorize commitments and determine the timing of their implementation.
in writing. ‒ i support the call to all members of the wto to try to find a solution without delay for implementing the bali package in all its aspects, including the reduction of trade-distorting subsidies, so that the dda can be concluded for the tenth wto ministerial conference. implementation of the agreement, in particular by developing countries, will result in the standardisation and simplification of trade-related procedures. moreover, the agreement can provide new opportunities to expand the use of innovative technologies and electronic systems, including electronic payment systems, national trade portals and one-stop shops.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report that will amend the marrakesh agreement and should increase trade flows, expand duty collection revenue as a result of higher trade volume and better detection of fraud, and improve the efficiency of customs administrations.
in writing. ‒ the european union is one of the main supporters of free trade worldwide. this is manifested by the constant attitude to finance development and facilitate international trade. in this regard, supporting the amendment of the marrakesh agreement, which underpins the world trade organisation, is a further contribution to strengthening fair trade relations at the planetary level. the amendment primarily aims at changing the treatment of developing and least developed countries by establishing differentiation from other countries in the implementation of wto rules and providing technical assistance for the compatibility of customs systems. the amendments involve the reduction and transparency of customs procedures, increased security and lower trade costs for the benefit of consumers. the development of the private sector of free enterprises, in particular those involved in small and medium-sized enterprises, will also be supported. reforming the world trading system through these changes represents a new opportunity for developing and underdeveloped countries. the eu must stand in solidarity with these countries and with the idea of fair free trade. these measures are in the interest of european citizens, who deserve to benefit from the best value for money. i therefore believe that the present document should be adopted, as it constitutes an important step forward in this area.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision authorising the kingdom of belgium and the republic of poland to ratify the budapest convention on the contract for the carriage of goods by inland waterways (cmni) and the republic of austria to accede to it. both the accession of belgium and poland and the ratification of this convention by austria provide a much better regulated framework for the transport of goods by inland waterway. the participation of these countries in the convention benefits citizens as well as businesses and will contribute to the implementation of this legal instrument alongside the 11 other member states that are already parties to the convention.
in writing. ‒ the budapest convention is thus an agreement falling partly under exclusive european union competence. however, the convention does not provide for the possibility for the union to become a party. nevertheless, member states cannot ratify or accede to it without an authorisation by the union (article 2(1) tfeu). in this case, the union’s exclusive competence is limited to a single provision, and an authorisation given to individual member states would not have a negative effect on the implementation of the union’s external policy on judicial cooperation in civil and commercial matters. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ inland waterways are a strategic asset of the european union, both economically and socially. they allow the interconnection of member states using the natural courses of major rivers or the connecting man-made canals built over time. it is a less polluting mode of transport, but also more advantageous in terms of price. for these reasons, this type of transport should be supported at european union level. the budapest convention on the contract for the carriage of goods by inland waterways, adopted in 2001, regulates the commercial exploitation of inland waterways, establishing uniform standards and harmonising national rules already in place in the 11 eu member states that are signatories to the convention. the accession of austria, belgium and poland to this convention is a real gain, as it ensures the completion of the common shipping space, facilitating commercial shipping activity. the european union has the competence to approve the accession of new member states to the convention. i therefore believe that we must support this formal approach to strengthening the union's inland waterway network, which is an important asset for ensuring the coherence of the european common market.
in writing. ‒ hundreds of migrants are now choosing to leave their home countries to start a new life in europe. one of the causes of this impressive influx is the humanitarian crisis in syria, and we can see the effects of this in the considerable number of migrants arriving on european soil. since the beginning of the year, some 500 000 people have arrived in the eu. the countries most affected by this crisis are primarily greece and italy, which are a gateway to europe for the refugee wave, with 249,855 arriving in greece and 119,500 in italy since the beginning of 2015. i voted against the amendment on compulsory quotas because i believe that account should be taken of the ability of states to provide decent conditions for immigrants, but i voted in favour of the report on provisional measures in the field of international protection for the benefit of italy and greece as a whole, because we must show solidarity both with these two countries which are no longer able to cope with the situation and with immigrants who want a new life. but i would stress once again the need to concentrate all efforts on the countries of origin of migrants in order to eliminate the causes of this phenomenon.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support a credible and substantial eu-wide compulsory resettlement scheme, including a binding quota for distribution, accompanied by a compulsory scheme for the relocation of recognised refugees within the european union. the provisional emergency measures foreseen in the report will set up a fair and equitable relocation mechanism, will relieve the significant asylum pressure from italy and greece, by relocating an important number of applicants in clear need of international protection who have arrived in the territory of italy and greece. however, this is only a first step towards the creation of a long-term solution to the migrant emergency. any proposal for a permanent emergency relocation mechanism must be based on a more substantial contribution to solidarity and responsibility-sharing among member states, including a significant increase in the number of available relocation places to adapt to rapidly changing migratory flows and trends. i really hope that member states will show more solidarity between them and we will be capable of creating a truly european asylum system.
in writing. ‒ the last few months have seen an exponential increase in migration from conflict zones in the eu's neighbourhood to member states. beyond the populist polemics that mark the public space in the member states, the problem will continue to exist; this is why an eu-wide solution is needed. the first arrival countries (mainly italy and greece) are under enormous pressure, which requires action in solidarity with the other member states. refugees must be redistributed according to a jointly negotiated and agreed scheme, according to the possibilities available in each country of the union. refusing to take in refugees is clearly a violation of the principles on which the european union was founded and cannot be accepted. what is essential, however, is that the rights of each person are respected and that redistribution is not affected by discrimination on arbitrary grounds. at the same time, it is the right of every refugee to express his or her consent to be resettled in one or another member state; so i think the focus should be on what refugees want and less on what some european politicians want.
in writing. i voted against the report on the proposal for a council decision establishing provisional measures in the area of international protection for the benefit of italy and greece. i believe that solidarity action by member states is crucial in formulating a concrete and sustainable response to the refugee crisis. this response must contain concrete elements, some of which are urgent and others of which constitute a medium- and long-term response. as for the central and eastern european states, i believe that the most appropriate measure for their involvement in the european refugee placement system is that based on voluntary quotas taken in the emergency relocation process. this is the official position of the visegrad group countries and of my country, romania. european support is needed to strengthen the capacity of these member states to participate in the future implementation of the common european asylum and refugee policy.
mr president, european policies have a direct impact on urban development and national urban policies. the objectives of the member states shall be linked to smart, green, sustainable and diverse economic growth. obviously, in diversity and tolerance of each other. with these ambitions, european urban policies need to be strengthened. improving the urban dimension of these european union policies would simplify and allocate european funds at local level so that decisions are taken by local communities. i therefore support the association of functional cities and urban areas with the whole cycle of european urban policies. functional urban areas, cities, member states, the commission need to cooperate to improve these urban policies in a concrete way and according to the wishes of local communities, because the people there know best what they want. let's be the citizens of today for the cities of tomorrow.
in writing. ‒ the european urban agenda sets a coherent framework for eu urban policies by adapting sectoral policies to urban development needs, responding to urban challenges and at the same time contributing to strengthening territorial cooperation. cities are real engines of economic development, providing growth and jobs, and acting as catalytic centers for creativity and innovation. at the same time, urban areas face numerous economic, social and environmental challenges to which the european urban agenda can offer concrete solutions. the objectives of the agenda shall focus on specific priorities that have the capacity to deliver measurable results in the development of smart cities and the low-carbon economy and that are conducive to social inclusion. better coordination of european urban development policies and the necessary coherence shall be achieved through measures of simplification, efficiency and harmonisation and by facilitating the widest possible access to a harmonised knowledge base. the financing measures available through the structural and investment funds and through existing financial instruments are an essential support for the development of urban areas. given that almost 70% of european citizens live in urban areas, i believe that cities are and must remain the main beneficiaries of investment through cohesion policy.
in writing. ‒ i believe that european union policies must support functional cities and urban areas to express and realise their full potential as engines of economic growth, employment, social inclusion and sustainable development. i believe that these functional cities and urban areas need to be more closely associated with the whole european policy cycle.
in writing. ‒ today, more and more people are living in cities, in europe and worldwide. this trend is being hastened most of all by population growth and new technology. i support the call by the rapporteur on the commission to develop a new multi-level governance model combining formal governmental structures with informal structures which take into account new digital communication possibilities and network activities. the new model should guarantee an exchange of information both horizontally and vertically and should improve citizen participation and democratic legitimacy. another objective of the report is to simplify eu law in the interest of efficient urban development policy, in order to facilitate implementation and reduce costs. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i believe that towns, cities and functional urban areas should be fully supported by eu policies and should be more closely associated with the european policymaking cycle. also, subnational governments should be involved in the policy process and development strategies.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that will examine the urban policy challenges for eu policy makers and to devise guidelines and boundaries for a future sustainable eu urban development policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that directing eu policies towards the urban dimension of eu policies is an option adapted to the reality of our times. taking into account that in 2014 half of the world's population and 72% of europe's population lived in urban areas, and that by 2050 nearly 80% of the world's population is estimated to live in urban areas, it is clear that we are looking at a population that is deeply committed to participatory democracy, development and economic development, but that requires an adequate supply of jobs. in this respect, i believe that the inclusion of a common european urban agenda that would promote in particular the development of governance solutions capable of meeting the challenges and objectives of sustainable development and favourable to the economic and social inclusion of urban areas is beneficial for the eu, and i am thinking in particular of romania, a country that is changing demographically and urbanistically at a higher speed. i also welcome the report's proposal to take account of the local territorial specificities of each member state in view of urban size and economic growth, an approach which should be applied in as many european policies as possible.
in writing. ‒ urban areas are where most of the eu's population lives and are the main engines of the member states' economies. their development has been based almost exclusively, up to now, on the interest of local and national authorities, in accordance with a limited interpretation of the principle of subsidiarity. however, the implementation of european policies has a direct effect on cities, especially in the field of regional development. in this context, the need for a european policy for urban centres has become apparent, in order to enable cities to meet the challenges posed by the process of globalisation, technological progress and urban development. this can be the result of better coordination, both horizontally between the various european sectors and initiatives and vertically, with a view to optimising the various administrative levels. in this respect, the proposal to appoint an eu special representative for urban areas is a commendable initiative that can give the necessary impetus to the process of deepening cooperation. the development of this european policy can contribute to the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives, in particular with regard to social inclusion, demographic change and sustainable development. for these reasons, i believe that the adoption of this report is timely for the development of our cities.
in writing. ‒ cities and functional urban areas are the key economic pillars and job-creating engines of the european union. although the european commission published a communication on the union's urban agenda in 1997, the role of european cities in the eu policy-making process is still under discussion. the eu has no explicit competences in the field of urban development, but a wide range of legislative initiatives have a direct or indirect impact on cities and functional urban areas. the resolution adopted by the european parliament calls for the swift adoption of an eu urban agenda that is consistent with the eu's objectives and strategies, in particular the europe 2020 strategy. this will certainly lead to better policy coordination and better integration of urban development objectives across as many policy areas as possible.
victor boştinaru, on behalf of the s&d group mr president, this debate comes at the right time for the european parliament to support the european union in playing a more active and effective role in the middle east peace process. it is today at an impasse as serious as ever and represents a direct threat to the security of our european union. hence the need to reaffirm our commitment to a peace process in the area and in particular to the peace process between israel and palestine, based on the recognised principles of the 1967 borders and the fact that the two states, israel and palestine, must coexist in security and peace. madam high representative, you have shown over the past year your full commitment, i would even say enthusiasm, to help relaunch the peace process and to step up our union's role in this direction. we support you, and the resolution we adopt tomorrow will confirm this once again, if necessary. any lasting solution to the israeli-palestinian conflict can only be achieved in a regional context, with the involvement of the important regional actors that you mentioned - that is egypt, jordan, saudi arabia - and through close cooperation between us and the united states of america and also institutionally, through cooperation with the arab league and the relaunch of its project, the arab league peace plan. in this context, my group and i are giving you our full support and i would like to remind this house that we europeans have recently received a very positive message from israel. the deputy speaker of the knesset, opposition mp hilik bar, presented his document on a peace project, which is impressive for its courage, vision and strength to tell even truths inconvenient for the israeli audience. he reminds us all of the words of the hero of peace, yitzhak rabin, "you can only make peace with your enemy". this fundamental truth still holds true today, including for prime minister netanyahu. because the european parliament has been able to contribute to supporting the commission's efforts this year, tomorrow we will adopt a resolution which, unprecedentedly, will be noted by all the groups in this chamber. it is impressive, but it is also the strongest mandate we can give you, madam president, to help our union bring peace to the middle east. thank you and good luck. (the president agreed to answer a question referred under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
blue-card answer. – mr belder, i had the privilege to negotiate yesterday, in four long hours of tense but incredibly fruitful discussions and negotiations, with all the representatives of the groups in this house, and i can only confirm that by the end of that unprecedented negotiation session, all the political groups had agreed to co-sign this resolution. that being so, it is useless to challenge the support which was expressed by the political groups because they were the ones to decide, through their own political decision-making systems, to co-sign the resolution and to adopt it tomorrow. this will be an amazing demonstration of support for the work of the european union. parliament itself can never negotiate, but it can help to provide a strong mandate for the real negotiators, and the brokers of the negotiations, and such a strong message will – i am convinced – be properly heard too by jerusalem and by ramallah.
mr president, for most of the time the dominant factor in the middle east has been – and to a certain extent still is – the arab-israeli conflict. the two-state, two-peoples solution has been, and still is, the only conceivable – and therefore acceptable – way to try and solve it. however, in the wake of the arab spring, a new conflict has appeared, this time intra—arab, between the shias and the sunnis. the recent advances of isis in syria, where the civil war goes on unabated, and iraq – as well as in libya, where things were further complicated by the political division of the country – suggest an ample de—structuring process with dangerous and unpredictable consequences: the accompanying instability in a much larger area of the middle east. its reverberations within the muslim communities in europe and the current migrant tsunami are consequences we already have to face. under the circumstances, it will only be a question of time before this new conflict becomes dominant, pushing the old arab-israeli conflict into a secondary position, thus forcing us to revisit our traditional policies and alliances in an attempt to adapt ourselves to the new landscape in the area. of course, that will not mean abandoning the efforts to solve that old conflict, only that the target and the reference framework we would be forced to operate in will be broader and different in nature.
madam president, i still believe it is very important that, once again, we declare our support for a two-state solution with an independent democratic palestinian state living side-by-side with israel and its other neighbours. at the same time, the security of israel has to be guaranteed because israel also represents a pillar of stability and democracy in the middle east. i welcome the efforts of the un security council, notably the initiative taken by france to resume peace talks between israel and the palestinians through a resolution setting a framework and a timetable for this process, and support the call for a comprehensive european union peace initiative to be presented at an international peace conference. our priority should be to ensure full respect for the rights of the people living in this area, whose personal safety and living conditions have been threatened for decades by conflicts in the middle east, some of which remain ongoing.
in writing.– the situation in the middle east concerns europe as a whole. the de-escalation of the conflict between israel and palestine and the resumption of credible peace efforts must occur as a matter of urgency. as such, i salute the two-state solution with regards to the 1967 borders and jerusalem as the capital of both states. i would like to further welcome the recent steps taken by israel to ease restrictions on gaza. however, i condemn the rocket fire by militant groups into israeli territory. it is vital for the eu to work with the israeli, palestinian, egyptian and jordanian authorities to prevent the re-arming of terrorists in the gaza strip. achieving peace in the middle east is a key priority for eu foreign policy and crucial for regional stability and security.
a journalist dared, some time ago, to ask alexander lukashenko if, in his opinion, he has too much power. lukashenko, who over a decade ago changed the constitution to allow him to run for the presidency of belarus whenever he wanted, replied that he did have a lot of power, but that he needed it to save the country from anarchy and banditry. he went on to explain that the main strength of the regime he leads is stability. and that's the problem: the stability that lukashenko talks about comes at a huge price: freedom of speech, freedom of the press, freedom of association. anyone who dares to oppose him is treated with violence and repression. i recall that of the nine presidential candidates in the 2010 election, seven ended up in prison. they were accused of organizing a mass riot - that's the exact phrase used. they were in fact protesting along with tens of thousands of others against the results of the presidential election, as the osce had already stated that the election was far from meeting the minimum international standards. five years later, we see lukashenko wants to be re-elected to continue to ensure the stability that was talked about earlier. the means remain the same. nikolaevich, the country's former presidential candidate and a well-known opposition figure, was arrested just yesterday as he returned to belarus after four years in exile. the upcoming elections, unfortunately, have a taste of déjà vu, as i think the next elections in the neighboring country will be, because putin has also announced his interest in staying in the presidency of the country, also for stability.
madam president, the latest release of political prisoners by the authorities in belarus represents a crucial step for relations between the eu and this country. today the belarusian people still suffer important violations to their human rights and fundamental freedoms. civic and political rights are often the target of repression. freedom of expression and freedom of the media are sadly challenged. the opposition remains secluded, at the very margins of the political process. in a few weeks belarus will hold presidential elections, which represent a unique opportunity to show the way – a new path. these elections, if free and fair, may indeed bring the eu and belarus closer. but, most importantly, these elections will be a test for democracy in belarus, a test for the authorities to show their genuine and unconditional commitment to the rights, needs and demands of the people of belarus. this opportunity must not be missed.
mr president, in my short speech i would like to join my czech colleagues, the honourable commissioner, who have reported on the case of aleśe mihaljevič, who was a candidate in the elections in belarus and who was granted asylum in the czech republic in 2011. i remember this case very well, it was our government that granted political asylum to this candidate for the belarusian presidency. he was telling how he was imprisoned in belarus, how he was tortured, how he was really exposed to inhuman treatment and after he now believed that there was a political warming in belarus, he returned to this country. as my colleagues from the czech republic have already told you, he was immediately detained at the border and was questioned and charged. i ask you to consider this case of this human rights activist and mention his name in case there are any proceedings. he deserves our support.
mr president, i welcome the progress achieved by belarus in the areas of higher education, vocational training, the digital market, the energy sector and food safety, among others, that will most certainly lead to increased cooperation between belarus and europe. i also have to praise the role belarus played in facilitating negotiations between russia and ukraine. however, i remain concerned by the continued prejudice against human rights and fundamental freedoms, the serious shortcomings observed during previous elections by independent international observers in belarus, and the lack of an effective rule of law. i believe the commission should support, through financial and political means, the efforts and democratic aspirations of belarusian civil society, independent media and non-governmental organisations in belarus, while leading the country towards more respect for democratic principles, human rights and the rule of law. to define the situation in a few words, i could say: stability within a complex authoritarian regime.
vice-president of the commission. other i am glad that the commission has taken this initiative. mr president, let me first of all say that i am very glad we are finally taking one of the most important points. i was surprised, i was looking back at my presence in the parliament you know i am coming often but this is the first time we discuss iran. i am glad to do so after we reached the agreement and also after a visit of a delegation from our parliament to tehran. let me start by saying that it was an honour for me to represent the european union in the negotiations and in the signing of the deal we reached on 14 july in vienna with iran. as many have said the moment was really an historic one. we should all be proud of what we have achieved, also because we have achieved that together, showing unity, unity of purpose, unity of method and we did this while we were negotiating at the signing and also in the follow-up, this first month of the follow-up, of the agreement. the deal has put an end to years of negotiations aimed at securing a comprehensive long lasting solution to the iranian nuclear issue and it has also put an end to decades of tensions and distrust. what we achieved in vienna is a victory of diplomacy, of multilateralism and, i think in this respect, is also a victory of the european union. and it is a good deal the one that we reached. first of all we wouldn't have accepted a deal that wasn't good. it is a strong, durable and verifiable deal because we know very well trust is important but agreements of this nature are not and cannot be built on trust, they are built on things that are verifiable, and written in all details in the agreement. it took so much time, it took so much energy also because we wanted the agreement itself, the text and the annexes themselves to be as detailed as possible in order not to leave room for interpretation or disputes in the implementation phase and in the follow-up. i said it is not based on trust but it is an agreement that while it starts to be implemented can open the way to build trust and this is the bet we are doing, that implementing the deal will also help build trust, trust within the region and within the international community, i would come to that at the end, but also trust as i said and confidence in something very rare and something very precious, which is again the fact that diplomacy, multilateralism, negotiations can lead to results. in fact we prevented probably, most probably, we prevented a crisis or a major conflict through our action. so that is why i was so proud that the european union was able to facilitate and to lead to a positive result in this negotiation. indeed it was also important, it is also important because it is hard, very hard, to think not only in recent years, but especially now with the security situation we have all around the european union and in the globe. it's hard to imagine any other moment in history when all the world powers be them europeans, us, russia, china, acted in such close cooperation in addressing a common challenge, recognizing a common interest of the international community and being able to act together. the european union, as you know, played a crucial role. first of all as a facilitator of the talks but also, and let me praise our staff, our excellent people for that, as a pen holder of the agreement and of all the technical annexes to that. sometimes we refer to the european bureaucrats, well it is thanks to our people, experienced, very knowledgeable about even tiny technical details of nuclear programmes, if we were able, as europeans, as european union, to indeed write concretely all the details of the annexes. i was proud of my team, i was proud of our european team. (applause) yes you can clap because they deserve that, they deserve that and indeed thank you because i am very happy and it is nice when my personal role is recognized but i always say this was a team work, not only with our partners in the international community, this was also a team work of our staff, and really our people did an excellent job, staying in the same sometimes closed rooms for months, months literally, working on papers, days and nights. so thank you for thanking them with me, they really deserve it. now we come to the critical phase. we will keep, i will keep personally, a crucial role for the phase of the implementation as i would stay as a coordinator of the joint commission overseeing the implementation of the gcboa. implementing the agreement effectively is critical. the un security council endorsed the agreement as you know on 20 july through resolution 2231 and this very same day, in the foreign affairs council, we had a unanimous endorsement by the foreign affairs ministers. we started as the european union preparations for our own legal measures necessary for lifting the sanctions and we look forward to a positive conclusion of the parliamentary reviews. as iran will start implementing its nuclear commitments after the reviews will be finished, eu, un and us economic and financial sanctions will be lifted upon verification of the iaa, and let me also say that our cooperation with the iaa was excellent and also was a way of strengthening, which is something, sometimes we say, but it's difficult then to do, to empower an important agency to do their work, and cooperation in that respect was really excellent. very importantly going back to sanctions, sanctions lifting will be subject to snap back in case of violation of the agreements. so far i have to say we have very encouraging signs. iran has complied with the road map agreed with the iaa and has submitted the requested information regarding the outstanding issues we had. now we need to keep in mind that the current process remains very sensitive. we will keep focusing on the implementation of the agreement and this is something that i not only underline, but this is the main reason for my visit to tehran, just 14 days after the deal was signed. i stressed in the tehran meeting with president rouhani, with foreign minister zarif, we were missing each other after having spent so much time together in vienna all of us, but also with the president of the parliament that i know has kept a very positive and constructive memory of her visit there. i stress that the successful and speedy implementation of the deal is key. the deal is signed but it enters into the real elements, into the real force, once we start and especially once iran starts implementing it. implementation phase will be key because it is the key to open the doors towards a renewed engagement between the european union, its institutions, and its member states and iran. that is very clear to me that the majority of the work of re-engaging, restarting bilateral relations will be with the european union. out of all the partners sitting around the table we are clearly the ones that for history, for geography, for economy, for interest in the common region we share which is the middle east, have a clear agenda of interest of exploring ways of working with iran, as difficult as it can be also on the way forward. during my visit, we also identified with the iranian authorities areas of common interest, on which a possible cooperation can start in the months to come in parallel with implementation. trade, energy, environment, technology, aviation safety but also terrorism and regional issues, and obviously human rights, we agreed the following steps. first we will start an informal political dialogue, starting from senior official level to further explore areas of potential cooperation and elaborate possible details. secondly, we will look into the possibility of a european union presence in tehran once the agreement has come into effect. this process requires all european union institutions to work in a coherent way. for these reasons i have created a common joint iran task force bringing together services from the commission and ds (???) that will serve, that has started already to work, to serve as the interface one to ensure the necessary level of coordination in the european union site. but as we discussed also this morning and also with the president of the commission, the agreement opens up some new opportunities for a different, more cooperative regional framework, and i believe this is really what is going to be more relevant for us. it can open the way to a new way of addressing the crisis in syria, first of all in syria. and let me also say that i will discuss also this possible developments tomorrow with zafandemistura (???) in brussels, but also in yemen and in iraq and in lebanon, and so on. maybe this could be a way of allowing us to bring different parties together with a different perspective. the perspective that managed to bring a result to the negotiations on the nuclear programme of iran, which is the win-win approach. different parties around the table brought together by either a common interest or a common threat they have to face together and many of you referred to the need to face together joining forces the threat of daesh in a more coherent way. well, i believe that if we managed to start implementation of the deal, to start developing new relations based not from today to tomorrow, it will take time, but based on some degree of mutual interests and mutual trust, we could also find more effective ways of facing the challenges we have in the region. this won't happen overnight. that is clear, but let me say that the issue of building a more cooperative framework in the region, in the middle east, is the interest of all. a more cooperative middle east would mean first of all an increased dialogue between sunni and shia forces and this would be the real nightmare for daesh - uniting forces on the ground, uniting forces of differences, and obviously facing their messages of sectarianism and hate that can only grow, flourish on divisions. at the same time let me stress and finish with that because i believe it is important in itself for us europeans, the deal with iran it is important for all these different political reasons i am stressing but it is first of all important because it is a milestone for regional and global non-proliferation. it is first of all a non-proliferation agreement. it is first of all a security agreement. we have been focusing very much on the political meaning of it but the concrete outcome, first outcome of the agreement, is a security and a non-proliferation one. it can strengthen and it strengthens the non-proliferation treaty and could create momentum towards a full ratification of the nuclear test ban treaty. the agreement reached in vienna can also promote disarmament globally and it can foster progress towards the middle east weapons of mass destruction free zone which as you know, has always been very much supported by all of us in the european union institutions and member states from the very beginning. it is obviously a very ambitious goal, but the non-proliferation and disarmament agenda when it comes to the nuclear weapons is an agenda on which i know i find in this parliament a partner on which i can count and as much as you can count on my personal commitment to that. so to sum up, because we are late, as usual, let me say that i was proud to represent the european union there because i believe that that was really the way of serving our face our best face of international engagement, which is that of serving peace and stability and let me say that thanks to the efforts of many, of many, we served the eu interests and the interests of the global community at the same time and we showed, i believe, the european union at its best. (applause from the left)
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, madam high representative, i would like to start by welcoming the agreement of 14 july on the iranian nuclear issue and congratulate you personally on your commitment to facilitating this agreement. after more than a decade of negotiations, the agreement reached by the partners and iran finally offers hope of bringing about a lasting solution to this issue and of replacing confrontation and mistrust with cooperation once and for all. but we cannot do this on our laurels. the agreement aims to cut off iran's access to fissile materials needed for nuclear weapons and provides for a system of inspection and transparency necessary to verify the implementation of the agreement. the main thing is, as you have said, implementation. the lifting of economic and financial sanctions against iran will only be possible if the international atomic energy agency finds that the commitments made in the joint comprehensive plan of action are being implemented. i would add that implementation is also a challenge for our european diplomacy, for the diplomacy you are leading, given the recognised role of the european union in this agreement and i am glad that you have recalled and underlined this during our meeting today. at the same time, i think we need to start looking beyond this agreement and see how we can move forward on other contentious issues that still mark our relationship with iran. firstly, within the country itself, i would remind you that president rouhani has also made a number of promises about the human rights situation in that country and it might be good to remind you of that. finally, this agreement must be seen in the wider context of our objective of peace and stability in the middle east. i would like to express the hope that the nuclear agreement with iran will also have an impact, first of all on the iranian crisis, but also on yemen tomorrow, and that we will have real cooperation as a result of this historic agreement.
mr president, before coming to this debate, i read again the speech made by john kerry in philadelphia recently about the nuclear deal. i have one conclusion: if remarkable american scientists, as well as john kerry, the president and many leading personalities in the united states, are backing the deal, are they wrong? i think not – because this deal is important not only for the united states but for the whole world. and this is the level at which europe can and should always play. please remember for a moment where we started from in 2013 and where we are now in our relations with iran and its capabilities to build a nuclear bomb. reading john kerry’s words, i can say, madam vice-president, that you and the other negotiators achieved things we should be proud of. our union has already received the nobel prize for peace, and this should be a reason for europe to become a real global power for peace and cooperation. allow me now to say just a few words in romanian. acest acord este un document care vizează în mod particular non-proliferarea nucleară, dar nu se referă numai la aceasta. deschide posibilitatea unei cooperări între uniunea europeană, iran și alți actori regionali pentru a stabiliza situația în orientul mijlociu, inclusiv un exit strategy pentru o tranziție în siria. este un document care permite cooperarea pentru a stabiliza o arie mai largă, din iran până la zona mării mediterane. este un loc unde europa - și mă uit la philip hammond, mă uit la deputy chancellor steinmeier, care merg la teheran să discute despre acordul nuclear, dar să discute în egală măsură despre business. mă uit la daniel barenboim, care îl acompaniază pe vicecancelar la teheran, crezând în puterea simbolului muzicii și al multiculturalismului ca un mesaj de pace. pentru aceste lucruri e timpul ca iranul și arabia saudită să înceteze războiul proxilor și iranul să-și schimbe în egală măsură limbajul vizavi de israel, vizavi de statele unite. (vorbitorul a acceptat să răspundă unei întrebări adresate în urma ridicării cartonaşului albastru, în conformitate cu articolul 162 alineatul (8) din regulament).
blue-card answer.– if we do not trust john kerry, if we do not trust steinmeier, if we do not trust high representative mogherini, if we do not trust others, then who are the ones to be trusted by us? it is the scepticism, the recipe and the panacea for our question marks. negotiation is the only answer we need and the only leverage we have. this is why, through negotiations, at least we can prevent the possibility of iran building a nuclear bomb and then, by means of verification, have a basis to work for a better world. the one we have now is not a better one.
mr president, after prolonged intense and complex negotiations, in which the high representative and her team played a crucial role for which they deserve all our praise, a deal has been signed in vienna with iran. according to the deal, iran will scale down considerably its nuclear effort and the international community will gradually lift the sanctions. however, the nuclear dimension is not the sole yardstick in evaluating the deal concluded in vienna. i think that the real measure of success or failure for that deal is ultimately political: namely, to what extent iran’s influence in the area will increase or decrease following the regaining of international respectability as a result of signing the vienna deal. the question is: will iran be more cooperative or more assertive? and even if it is cooperative, we should be fully aware that other partners in the area might feel antagonised by this newly-discovered cooperative relationship between us and iran.
mr president, we are living in difficult times and in difficult times we must be creative and innovative. for me the social— and solidarity—based economy is one such measure. it now provides employment for more than 14 million people in the eu and between just 2009 and 2013 created 1.3 million new jobs. maybe for some this is not much, but if we are smart enough we should capitalise on the huge potential here, considering their diversity, the services they provide and the methods that they use. since they often employ the socially excluded and many young people, their capacity to enhance cohesion within communities by creating jobs and minimising social inequalities should be duly taken into consideration. unfortunately, up to now only a few countries already have in place national legislation concerning the social and solidarity based economy. the commission should be tougher in this direction. other member states should follow this example and i am glad to say that my own country, romania, is close to adopting it. at the same time, appropriate support should be provided for the establishment and development of small and medium—sized enterprises, the backbone of our economy. we cannot ask for new jobs and quality jobs without helping those who can provide them by creating the proper environment.
mr president, the 23 million unemployed people in europe are the result not only of the economic crisis of the past years, but also the result of structural shortcomings within eu labour markets. we have to tackle these if we are to create more employment in europe in the years to come. therefore i advocate three solutions: firstly, facilities for labour mobility, secondly, an improved entrepreneurial environment and, thirdly, a better way of matching the education system and employers’ needs, mainly through vocational education. on the first point, labour mobility: nowadays citizens have to move to where the jobs are. therefore, cities need to provide enough affordable housing for people from rural areas who need a second house in the city for working days during the week. a further point on labour mobility: we talk a lot about people moving between eu member states, but we also need to talk more about people moving within an eu member state. there are still significant discrepancies between regions in terms of employment opportunities within a country. i therefore call on the commission to establish a catalogue of best practices to stimulate mobility within a member state and to share these experiences with member states which still have work to do on labour mobility. secondly, on improving the entrepreneurial environment, we all know the erasmus for young entrepreneurs programme established by the commission. it is a good programme, which i fully support, but it needs to be complemented by a similar programme at national level. the erasmus for young entrepreneurs programme obliges you to move from your home country to another country to undertake a traineeship paid by the commission with an already established entrepreneur. it is a good programme and i give it my full support, but member states should also launch and publicly finance such programmes at national level in order to stimulate mobility within the member states. the commission could assist, based on its experience with erasmus for young entrepreneurs at european level.
mr president, unemployment continues to be one of the main challenges in the european union, especially among young people. the unemployment rate is still alarming, as are the significant differences of unemployment rates between member states. i agree on the emphasis given to the need to achieve a competitive labour market, to the implementation of reforms that can increase labour market and personal career flexibility, and to the better matching of skills and jobs, including stronger synergies between education systems and labour markets. the issue of skills mismatches, however, should not hide the real problems of the labour markets, the need to fight precarious employment and social inequalities, to invest in human capital in order to prepare the labour markets for the future, and to foster a comprehensive approach regarding labour mobility based on the free movement of citizens and workers and the principle of equal pay for equal work.
mr president, making healthcare sustainable is a very important part of the political agenda in europe and it is crucially important for a safe and sound european population. something needs to be done in order to face the great challenges that are putting too much pressure on our healthcare systems – including our ageing population and the rise of chronic diseases on which we spend most of the eu healthcare budget. through the use of digital tools, fundamental improvements to our healthcare systems become possible. service will improve, science will develop and a great quantity of financial resources can be saved to be used for something else within the healthcare budget. we must agree on a practicable common vision, and use innovation and technology to find effective solutions. through our efforts we will be able to enact positive healthcare transformations that can adapt and, over time, produce high-quality and universally accessible health services in a financially sustainable way.
mr president, the health systems of many european countries are suffering. new medical technologies, new medicines, and an aging population are driving ever-increasing health care costs. i think a major factor in the sustainability of health systems is to strengthen preventive action: to use incentives more. people respond to stimuli. if a person, for example, does not have an annual checkup, he poses a greater risk to health insurance companies and will have to pay a higher health insurance premium. i appreciate that at the european union level, more analysis can be done, more attention must be paid to the health economy, which is necessary for the health of the economy. it is unacceptable that a new drug that cures hepatitis c, which was not curable until recently, should cost tens and tens of thousands of euros. there's something to do here.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs.– madam president, the data published by the commission in its 30th and 31st annual reports show that, although many efforts have been made over the years to improve the implementation process, we are still far from a balanced result. the measures taken by the commission to assist member states in the implementation process are to be welcomed, but should be intensified. the commission should put more emphasis on overseeing and ensuring the concrete application of eu law. information on the implementation of eu law in the area of freedom, security and justice and other policy areas should be more structured, transparent and accessible. the annual monitoring report could and should be supplemented by other measures that would allow parliament to be kept regularly and effectively informed. to conclude, i would like to recall that there cannot be a truly european area of justice without the correct and timely implementation of eu legislation.
madam president, i think we have to admit that we do not really know the figures on this trafficking in human beings and, as the rapporteur has said, i think that this figure is much higher than the evidence we have, because the victims are afraid to speak out and this is where we have to act, commissioner, and this is my expectation: to see how we not only monitor the situation in the member states but also find solutions to protect the victims. we must, of course, monitor the situation closely, but as i said, this is not enough. if we can't find solutions, let's get to the cause. we need, commissioner, firm measures, harsh punishments for those who facilitate and traffic in people. the offence is, in my view, equal to the crime. therefore, new measures must be taken to eliminate this form of violence. we are ashamed to return to slavery by exploiting women in particular. perhaps you can tell us, however, commissioner, which are the two countries that have not made notifications.
madam president, trafficking in human beings is a severe violation of fundamental rights and a serious form of organised crime that we must fight with all means at our disposal. women, men, girls and boys who are trafficked in different circumstances require gender-specific assistance and support. we must, therefore, incorporate a clear gender perspective and give priority to the rights of victims of human trafficking and their specific needs. our human rights-based approach must focus on the victims of trafficking and must discourage demand for all forms of human trafficking, including for the purposes of sexual exploitation, which is the most common form of exploitation. the action plan is designed to improve the capacity of the relevant stakeholders to prevent human trafficking. in order to do so, the member states must respect the deadlines for transposition and compliance, and the commission should assess, as soon as possible, the adequacy of measures implemented by member states.
mr president, i would like to express the strongest solidarity with eston kohver, oleg sentsov and olexandr kolchenko, whose detention clearly represents a violation of international law as they have been deprived of the right to a fair trial. i call for their immediate release and safe return home. i am especially worried about the fact that there is evidence that oleg sentsov and olexandr kolchenko have been tortured during their detention. the case against the ukrainian film-maker seems to be clearly trumped up to gain a conviction and to be a politically inspired action against two ukrainian activists determined to exercise their legitimate right to protest against russia’s illegal occupation of crimea. russia should release all illegally detained ukrainian citizens and comply with the means to agreement (international law) and respect the protection and promotion of human rights, fundamental freedoms and the rule of law: all concepts which it has committed to upholding in various international treaties and agreements. russia has to stop its provocations and return to the international community.
mr president, i join my colleagues who have clearly condemned the current totalitarian regime in angola. i remember as a member of parliament for the czech republic, in the late 1970s and 1980s, president santos travelling to communist czechoslovakia and embracing the then communist leaders of the totalitarian power in czechoslovakia. fortunately, communism in central and eastern europe is no more, but as mentioned, the absurd situation in angola remains. president santos is still in power. his regime is getting worse and worse, and as is typical, it suppresses human rights defenders, it suppresses journalists who point out corruption, crimes, murder and the torture of innocent people. and there was also a reference to the book "blood diamonds", which just described how diamonds are mined and how the indigenous people and the people who participate in these activities are oppressed. this regime must be condemned and the european commission and all the institutions of the european union and the member states must be called upon to cease cooperation with angola and to express our condemnation of the angolan regime in all negotiations.
mr president, i am deeply concerned about the broader deterioration in the environment for freedom of expression in angola, including the increased use of criminal defamation lawsuits against journalists and routine police abuse. the excessive use of force by the police is absolutely unacceptable, as is the use of violence and arbitrary arrests to stop peaceful anti—government protests and other gatherings. from beating women to unleashing dogs on protesters, it seems that in angola the corrupt ruling elite hates its own people. the angolan authorities must immediately put an end to these cases of arbitrary arrest, illegal detention and torture by the police and security forces, and impartial investigations must be carried out of all allegations of human rights violations by police and security forces so that the perpetrators are brought to justice.
member of the commission.– mr president, the european union is following the human rights situation in angola closely, and we are working hard with the government to raise our concerns about the deterioration which is taking place. the right to freedom of association, assembly and expression are guaranteed by angola’s national and international laws and human rights obligations. however, we have seen from recent events in cabinda and luanda that, on several occasions, individuals have been prevented from peaceful assembly and peacefully demonstrating in angola. in some cases, the authorities have refused to allow demonstrations to take place, used excessive and unnecessary force or arrested and detained demonstrators. during the first european union-angola ministerial meeting, in october 2014, we also highlighted that a free, pluralistic media was an essential component of a multi-party democracy. we have already made various démarches in dialogue with angola to decriminalise defamation, since the defamation laws can be a threat to investigative journalism. it is in exactly this context that the european union delegation in luanda has been following closely the case against journalist rafael marques, as well as the case against the cabinda human rights activist josé marcos mavungo, by monitoring trials and being in contact with their lawyers. during the most recent article 8 political dialogue with angolan minister of foreign affairs chikoti, on 11 august 2015, a long and frank discussion took place. the european union delegation, together with the member states represented in luanda, expressed concern at recent developments. these include the detention of 15 young activists, the recurrent denial of freedom of assembly, the case of the cabinda human rights defender mr mavungo and the lack of transparency surrounding events in monte sumi, where an unknown number of members of the religious cult kalupeteka were killed in a confrontation with the police in april. on a positive note, the government has accepted to implement the majority of the universal periodic review recommendations and has made good progress on women’s rights, in particular with the enactment of the law on the participation of women in political life. we also welcome the recent accession by angola to the convention of the rights of persons with disabilities and the protocol to prevent trafficking in persons. the european union will continue to call on angola’s government to fully respect the effective exercise of the rights of freedom of peaceful assembly and of freedom of expression and the right to a fair trial, in line with angola’s constitution and international conventions and the regional human rights instruments that angola is a party to. the human rights situation will also be discussed at the forthcoming eu-angola ministerial meeting, scheduled to take place before the end of the year in luanda.
, author mr president, on behalf of the epp group, i would like to say two things: firstly, we have expressed in our resolution our concern in particular about the health of leyla and arif yunus and we ask that they be released as soon as possible. we are very pleased that the so-called silent diplomacy has had its effect. we were able to help them medically. we have also not signed the joint resolution because we cannot accept the greens' strategy of coming to the plenary to ask the european parliament to take a decision - without going through the committee on foreign affairs - on the instruments of the neighbourhood policy, on the investigations conducted, it is said, by the institutions of the union on president aliyev, who had signed agreements with president tusk precisely in order to be able to make progress in the field of rights. the greens' strategy is therefore unrealistic, and we cannot accept it. we shall also ask that this resolution not be put to the vote today, which is simply a sign of radicalism which produces more than the opposite effect.
the european union and azerbaijan must continue to work together, as reaffirmed recently in president aliyev's visit to brussels. this cooperation is to the benefit of both sides not only from the point of view of the energy sector, as stated earlier, but also in terms of respect for human rights. we certainly express our concern about human rights violations in azerbaijan and certainly ask the authorities to solve these cases. but at the same time, we draw attention to the fact that such situations only distance the country from democratic values and international agreements to which azerbaijan is a party. at the same time, i believe that maintaining dialogue with azerbaijan and strengthening the partnership is actually the path the european union must follow, and any attempt to take us to the supreme court only serves to cool relations and does not benefit either the european union or the citizens of azerbaijan.
member of the commission.– mr president, azerbaijan is a close partner in several fields of strategic importance for the european union, notably energy security and regional stability. our relations have intensified over the last years under the eastern partnership, and we would like to see this relationship prosper and develop further on the basis of common interests and values. however, there are important issues in our relationship that need to be addressed openly among partners. the european union is following the human rights situation in azerbaijan closely. notably, we observed the trials of leyla and arif yunus, of khadija ismayilova and, in the spring, of rasul jafarov and intigam aliyev, just to mention some of the human rights defenders and journalists in azerbaijan. we have reacted to these negative developments in statements and direct talks at the highest level. we continue to call for the release of human rights activists and journalists imprisoned without a fair trial. we would like to see azerbaijan live up to its international commitments as a member of the united nations, the council of europe and the osce, notably when it comes to safeguarding freedom of expression and association and applying the rule of law, with an independent judiciary and with access to fair and transparent trials. we do not underestimate the challenges that azerbaijan faces to further develop its independence and stability in a volatile region. we remain convinced that the only way for a country to ensure its long-term stability and security is to allow space for citizens to contribute freely to the political debate. for this, journalists must be allowed to perform their work freely. we expect more action to be taken in this regard. i understand that the azerbaijan authorities are actively investigating the recent murder of the journalist rasim aliyev. our delegation works hard to promote human rights and has good contacts with civil society in baku. our financial assistance is key in this endeavour since it targets the most vulnerable sectors and makes a difference in people’s lives. our delegation also offers concrete support to human rights defenders at risk. we will continue to stand up for our shared values and interests in our bilateral relations as well as through the eastern partnership and as fellow members of the council of europe. to achieve sustainable results, we will have to apply a long-term constructive approach based on dialogue and engagement and the intense use of diplomatic channels. in order to put our relations on a new base and to develop their full potential, exploratory talks with baku on an agreement will start next week. this will bring new opportunities to engage with azerbaijan across all fields of common interest and values, in line with our international commitments. in this endeavour of engaging azerbaijan critically but constructively, we need to work together with you. while we understand that some honourable members are not comfortable with the idea of negotiating with azerbaijan in the current circumstances, we must use this new opportunity to pursue human rights objectives as an integral part of our wider relationship. to miss this opportunity would not help to address the concerns that we all share here.
in writing. human rights are being systematically and increasingly violated in azerbaijan. journalists and human rights defenders are sentenced to prison without fair trials. for example, investigative journalist hadia ismayilova was sentenced to 7 and a half years in prison after writing articles critical of president aliyev and his family. the resolution calls on the azerbaijani government to immediately end the crackdown on journalists and civil society and calls for negotiations with azerbaijan to be immediately suspended as long as the government does not take steps to release journalists and respect human rights. i voted for the joint resolution. i would like to emphasise that i was not given time to speak in this plenary session on the azerbaijan case because i expressed in the presence of the afet coordinator opinions different from his and from those of a part of the group.
mr brok has suggested that the agenda be changed and i ask my colleagues representing the political groups whether they are against this proposal.
in this situation there are two possibilities: the first possibility would have been to remove this item from the agenda, but this cannot be done because we are discussing urgent matters, the other possibility would have been to change the agenda, provided that all groups accept this issue. and there is at least one group that doesn't want that.
the oral amendment was retained.
after the vote on item 10.
the oral amendment was retained.
before the vote on amendment 1.
in writing. ‒ the economic crisis has had a negative impact on the economic, social and territorial cohesion of the union and has slowed down the objective of reducing disparities between regions, so that at the beginning of the new programming period, progress has been particularly slow. some member states are facing serious problems due to a lack of administrative capacity and bureaucratic overload, reflected in the low implementation of funded projects and the poor absorption performance of community support, so that the risk of funds being disbursed at the end of the programming period cannot be avoided. structural reforms are required in member states which had a particularly low absorption rate at the end of the previous period in order to avoid similar scenarios in the future. the efficiency of cohesion policy lies in the ability to adapt and flexibly adapt its instruments to local and regional specificities, but also in the ability of regions to turn them into development opportunities. the commission should take into account all economic and social aspects arising from the suspension of commitments or payments pursuant to article 23 (15) of the common provisions regulation. i therefore consider that suspension of payments should be avoided where minor errors are found.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy is the european union's main instrument, aimed at reducing economic, social and territorial disparities in european regions, boosting their competitiveness, combating climate change and energy dependence, and at the same time contributing to the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives. i consider that, despite the difficulties faced by some member states and regions in co-financing them, cohesion policy investments have significantly mitigated the negative effects of the economic and financial crisis and contributed to ensuring stability within regions by securing funding flows in a period when national and regional public and private investments have sharply decreased, with cohesion policy funds representing 21% of public investments across the union and 57% in cohesion fund beneficiary countries overall.
in writing. ‒ during the recent crisis and austerity conditions, cohesion investments gave stability to the regions by ensuring the flow of funding when national public and private investments declined. during the 2014-2020 financing programming, in areas such as innovation, digital and low carbon economy, employment and smes, clearly showed potential for creating sustainable jobs, especially for youth. i agree with the rapporteur on the fact that a late start of the current cohesion policy cycle and backlog in payments are not acceptable. moreover, we must improve administrative capacity of public authorities, especially at regional and local level and increase cooperation with all stakeholders.
in writing. ‒ every three years the european commission presents a cohesion report on the progress made towards achieving economic, social and territorial cohesion. the report underlines that the potential for creating sustainable jobs, especially for youth, is promising taken into account the investments during the 2014-2020 financing programming (in areas such as innovation, employment and smes). the report pays special attention to the future of cohesion policy after 2020. however, an analysis of the 2007—2013 period is necessary.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that includes new measures to increase effectiveness and result orientation, thematic concentration in particular on innovation, the digital and low carbon economy, education and sme support.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report in support of one of the most important policies of the european union, namely cohesion policy, which aims to reduce regional disparities, promote economic, social and territorial cohesion between the regions of the member states and support job creation. it is clear that ensuring a stable fiscal and economic environment (as well as an effective institutional, administrative and regulatory environment) guarantees the effectiveness of cohesion policy. in this respect, as the document suggests, member states should regularly hold high-level political debates in national parliaments on the effectiveness, efficiency and timely implementation of the funds, and on the contribution of cohesion policy to the achievement of the objectives pursued. cohesion policy must be the fundamental instrument for maintaining the level of investment in the different member states and i am convinced that the objectives and means proposed will ensure that my country, romania, also benefits from fair treatment.
in writing. ‒ the economic, social and territorial cohesion of the union is one of the strategic objectives of the european project. the european institutions have invested and are investing considerable sums of money in its implementation, even under the austerity regime imposed by the recent economic crisis. the main areas of this investment in the current multiannual framework (2014-2020) are innovation, the digital and low-carbon economy, the creation of new sustainable jobs (especially for young people), and small and medium-sized enterprises. however, there are also problems with late payments, the limited administrative capacity of public authorities at local and regional level or insufficient cross-border cooperation. in the long term, a serious debate on the issue is needed, especially on cohesion policy beyond 2020, incorporating the lessons of the last multiannual frameworks, both in terms of the positive aspects and the shortcomings. the present document is only a step in this important process, the very purpose of which is to defend the interest of the european citizen. it must therefore be supported in order to give further impetus to the european union's cohesion policy and the coordinated economic development of the member states.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on 'investing for jobs and growth: promoting economic, social and territorial cohesion in the european union' by my colleague tamás deutsch. i welcome his initiative in producing this report, all the more so as the decisive role of eu cohesion policy in reducing regional disparities, promoting economic, social and territorial cohesion between the regions of the member states and supporting job creation is undeniable. cohesion policy is the main instrument for investment in the real economy across the union and is a proven tool for growth and job creation in the eu, with a budget of over eur 350 billion by 2020. i welcome the fact that the rapporteur has called on the ec to pay particular attention to the situation of minority groups across the union, as they face various forms of social exclusion and are therefore more likely to be affected by structural unemployment. the same report also highlights the key role played by smes in the context of job creation and highlights their potential to promote smart growth.
in writing. ‒ it is clear that older people should not be a burden on society. in this regard, capacity building is necessary to promote their active participation in society. unfortunately, there are large differences between regions in how older people are engaged in society, which must be changed through social protection, support infrastructure and budgetary resources. better targeted and more effective active ageing strategies are needed to ensure social inclusion, active participation and well-being of all generations. i voted in favour of the report on the implementation, results and overall assessment of the european year of active ageing and solidarity between generations (2012) because older people must be given the opportunity to play an important role in society and the promotion of active ageing must remain a priority for the eu.
in writing. ‒ i regret that older people are still often exposed to age discrimination, stereotypes and barriers and therefore believe that member states must implement the equal treatment directive in relation to employment and occupation without delay and in a fair manner.
in writing. ‒ active ageing policies shouldn't be considered only as an instrument to maintain the employability of older workers, but as an opportunity for older citizens to enhance the positive role they play in the society. i support the idea stated in the report that linking the retirement age only to life expectancy fails to take account of the importance of labour market trends and is therefore not the only instrument to tackle the challenge of an ageing society; instead, through their employment protection legislation and systems of wage formation member states should support the recruitment of older workers especially before their statutory retirement age, as unemployment would have further negative effects on their retirement income, and ensure sustainable social protection systems.
in writing. ‒ i believe that eu is facing unprecedented demographic, social and structural changes that have to be addressed immediately. the commission should study the worrying problem of unemployment among people over the age of 50 and the rising level of long-term unemployment. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that will raise general awareness of the value of active ageing and its various dimensions, stimulate debate, to exchange information and to develop mutual learning, offer a framework for commitment and concrete action and promote activities which will help to combat age discrimination, to overcome age-related stereotypes and to remove barriers.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report because i believe that encouraging active ageing is one of the eu's biggest challenges at the moment. we are all facing unprecedented demographic, social and structural changes that need to be addressed without delay; as the general ageing of the population is accompanied by a decline in the birth rate. to address these issues, i believe it is essential for romania and the rest of the european countries that the state promotes and strengthens, through social security systems, public infrastructure (care units, day centres and home care) available to older people. as the report also states, member states need to improve the allocation of funds for active ageing and ensure that this segment absorbs european funds efficiently. the social role of older people is crucial for any society, and sharing values and experience with the new generations will undoubtedly ensure the evolution and coherence of the european project.
in writing. ‒ the european union faces unprecedented demographic changes, inter alia due to an ageing society, a declining working age population and a rising level of demographic dependency. these negative demographic trends are also coupled with social changes in family structures, such as the rise in single-adult households and the decreasing number of multi-generational family households. the european year for active ageing and solidarity between generations was a much-needed initiative to raise awareness concerning these challenges, but also to start exploring the opportunities lying in the silver economy. as the example of several member states shows, there is a lot that public authorities, healthcare systems and even private companies can do to allow aging people to live dignified, useful and healthy lives and to be full members of our society.
in writing. ‒ 2012 has been designated as the 'european year of active ageing and solidarity between generations'. this was not by chance, as there has been a general trend towards an ageing population at union level for some time, which poses a challenge to european demographic policies. beyond viewing ageing as an exit from the labour force, the process must not lead to the marginalisation of this growing group within society. on the contrary, we need to think of new ways in which older people can be involved in society beyond a certain age, which is formally considered to be the limit of active life. their experience is a significant resource for the development of our societies. on the other hand, if we think about the labour market, it too will have to undergo changes in form and content to keep up with the new trend. it is therefore necessary to protect employees in old age and to prevent them from becoming unemployed, which can affect their pension levels and living standards. for these reasons, this document is a useful tool for the future demographic policies of the union.
in writing. ‒ the transport sector is a major force in the european economy, generating 10 million jobs. to remain a leader in generating growth as well as jobs, a number of important measures need to be taken at eu level. in this respect, a change of paradigms in transport policy is needed, precisely to meet the challenges of the future. at the same time, complementary measures are needed at national, regional and local levels of government, as well as at the level of citizens and the sector. the objective of reducing europe's dependence on oil imports and of reducing carbon emissions from transport by up to 60% by 2015 is extremely ambitious and can only be achieved through a well-defined set of interventions. i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the 2011 transport white paper: assessment of the state of play and the way forward to achieve sustainable mobility as it is necessary to transform the european transport system and to create well-founded policies for the sustainable development of this sector.
in writing. ‒ through the adoption of this report, we will provide current and future generations with access to safe, secure, reliable and affordable mobility resources to meet their needs, while minimising undesirable impacts such as congestion, accidents, air and noise pollution, and climate change effects. i strongly support the inclusion, in the report of important social aspect in all modes of transport such as ensuring equal and fair treatment, good and safe working environment, promoting high quality jobs and working conditions for transport workers and ensuring fair and undistorted competition between transport operators. i welcome the introduction of measures for doubling public transport use in urban areas by 2030; the inclusion of measures for safety, usage in urban areas, elderly or disabled people and cyclist and the shift towards a more sustainable transport mode, less polluting and most energy-efficient mode of transport. these steps are of fundamental importance in the path to define a long-term strategy that would help the eu transport system achieve the overall goal of the common transport policy.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that reiterates the european parliament’s support for the effective implementation of the white paper on transport.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the 2011 white paper on transport because, in my view, this is an objective that calls into question the achievements to date, but also the remaining objectives in this vital area for the european union. the commission's mid-term evaluation of the implementation of the 2011 white paper on transport is key to creating a clear perspective on our evolution and progress to date. we need to know very precisely which of these goals have been achieved, which are to be achieved and which are those that we will not achieve at the current rate. this evaluation, as the report also underlines, must provide concrete solutions to achieve all the objectives, must make efficient use of resources and, last but not least, keep pace with new developments in the eu, without setting targets lower than those of 2011. i believe that the document brings useful assessments and analyses to the eu and to transport policies, which are so important for our societies and for the economic development of european states.
in writing. i voted for the report on the implementation of the 2011 transport white paper: assessment of the current situation and the way forward to achieve sustainable mobility. i welcome the rapporteur's view that the completion of the trans-european transport network remains one of the preconditions for a more sustainable, efficient and continuous multimodal transport system and for a more balanced distribution of freight and passengers between modes of transport. i agree that the selection of projects eligible for eu funding should focus on the new core network corridors, on creating missing connections, in particular in cross-border segments, on removing bottlenecks, on upgrading existing infrastructure, on innovative transport solutions, on interoperability and on creating multimodal terminals and urban nodes.
in writing. ‒ gender equality is one of the principles promoted by the european union, aiming to eliminate all forms of discrimination against women and to reduce gender segregation in the scientific and academic community in the eu, as it is of the utmost importance to ensure that women and men enjoy equal treatment, have the same rights and obligations and work opportunities, and that their contribution to society is valued and respected equally. despite recent positive developments, member states still face a low presence of women in the highest academic and decision-making positions in scientific institutions and universities, which confirms the existence of bias-based barriers that prevent women from accessing leadership positions. according to statistics, even though 59% of higher education graduates in the european union are women, only 18% of them are university professors, and women are underrepresented in science, engineering, management and leadership. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe that immediate action is needed to remove the cultural and institutional barriers that favour the presence of gender segregation in the scientific and academic environment and to encourage equal and non-discriminatory treatment in the hope of boosting research activities.
in writing. ‒ in europe, according to the latest available statistics, the research workforce is ageing. there is therefore an urgent need to make attractive careers in science available to young people, especially women, as science plays a key role in the european economy and science needs as many women researchers as possible who can develop exploratory research, thus contributing to the achievement of the objectives of the 2020 strategy. one of the main objectives of the strategy is the careers of women. i believe that there is a need for better systematisation of the available data on the gender breakdown and monitoring of the position of women scientists at member state level in order to promote gender equality in all public and private research institutions and i also believe that there is a need for more flexibility in terms of working conditions for both female and male researchers, to allow them to reconcile professional and family life and to eliminate the pay gap between male and female researchers with a view to respecting gender equality. last but not least, i believe that member states should, through the levers available, strive for a better gender balance in the bodies responsible for the recruitment and promotion of researchers.
in writing. ‒ gender equality is a fundamental principle of the european union, a basic precondition for the full enjoyment of human rights by women and girls and is essential for their empowerment and the achievement of a sustainable and inclusive society. unequal access for women to research positions, funding and publishing still persists, including an unadjusted gender pay gap in the area of science and academia. i believe that we must be keen in pointing out and defeat by all means the low presence of women in the highest academic and decision-making positions in scientific institutions and universities, which indicates the existence of a glass ceiling, an invisible barriers based on prejudices which stand in the way of women accessing positions of responsibility. we have to fight all forms of direct or indirect discrimination against women; otherwise, horizon 2020 will not be achieved.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that will promote gender equality in this field.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because i have always considered that equal opportunities for women and men is a proof of our status as a civilized nation, it is a result of all the lessons that history has taught us, that discrimination creates unforgettable social dramas. i worked in the last term on the parliamentary committee on women's rights and gender equality and i was always close to the problems that still face many women, not only in my country. i think this report rightly highlights a serious problem, the discrimination against women in academia and science, where all the data shows that they are underrepresented and underpaid. by my vote today, i want to join those who are calling on the commission and the member states to apply all european legislation in this area in good faith and/or to change it if it is not effective.
in writing. ‒ i am particularly pleased with the initiative to promote the empowerment of women in science. at european level, it is felt that, due to the existence of prejudices and stereotypes against them, women are still underrepresented in the academic sphere. the european union's commitment to human rights requires us to uphold our existing legal provisions and, where necessary, to introduce new ones to achieve gender equality. for example, research shows that women are particularly disadvantaged by both being considered less promising male candidates for jobs requiring mathematical skills. although my country is one of the most positive in this field, it also needs programmes that encourage women to pursue scientific careers, while at the same time promoting family values. in this sense, i believe that the commission and the member states should develop programmes to ensure that the necessary enabling environment is created for women's academic careers, taking into account the role of women in the family.
in writing. ‒ the european union has come a long way towards adopting an appropriate legislative framework to support gender equality. at present, the legal provisions in the member states in this respect are among the most advanced in the world. however, in practice, in many member states, the situation of women is still precarious, affected by the persistence of prejudice and stereotypes. a special case is that of women involved in science and academia: their share is alarmingly low, at only 18% of university professors and 10% of rectors. in order to correct this flagrant imbalance, the european institutions must apply gender policies more vigorously, in order to strive as much as possible for the equality of the status of women with that of men, both through educational policies, promotion programmes and non-discriminatory practices, and through the introduction of mandatory quotas in scientific and academic institutions in the member states, by ensuring a balance between personal and career life. these measures may be promoted, inter alia, through horizon 2020. it is important that those measures are implemented in concrete terms and evaluated accordingly. this document is a step in that direction.
in writing. we voted on the report on the careers of women in science and academia and the glass ceilings encountered. i agree with the rapporteur's request that the commission and the member states review existing legal provisions to implement them properly and, if necessary, revise them to ensure that equal treatment between women and men is respected. the commission and the member states are also invited to ensure compliance with the principle of non-discrimination, recognised in the treaty of lisbon as an objective of the european union, in all types of employment contracts or funding, and to respect the legal right to equal pay for equal work, for all components of remuneration awarded to men and women, including grants and scholarships, by ensuring, for example, pay transparency.
in writing. ‒ the fight for gender equality must be a priority for all of us, and education is an important lever we are obliged to use. training teachers on gender equality, ensuring equal access to education for girls and boys, implementing measures against gender-based violence in schools, and banning the promotion of gender stereotypes in school textbooks are just some of the actions covered in this report that can support girls and women, visibly improving the status of women in society. we also need to bear in mind that a national education system that promotes gender equality is also a mechanism through which member states can fight against all forms of violence against women. early childhood education can also be a method of preventing domestic violence and sexual assault against women, and cases like the one in vaslui, romania, which shook an entire country, could be prevented. i believe that we must fight for a better life for women within the union, but also beyond its borders, by implementing the necessary measures to ensure the promotion of gender equality in our education system.
in writing. ‒ i believe that we have to take into account, when drafting policies and initiatives to increase for education, also the complexity of the influential factors, such as poverty and socio-economic status. education improves economic empowerment for women and girls but only if they are able to access similar levels and types of education. incorporating gender equality into all levels of education will have a positive outcome in promoting, among women and men, the values of justice and citizenship in both public and private spheres. i strongly agree with the necessity of conducting impact studies to provide qualitative and quantitative instruments for the assessment of this impact, and revise existing education laws in accordance with gender equality principle. i would also like to encourage the creation of an annual european award for gender equality for educational institutions which have excelled in attaining this objective.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that should develop and reinforce national regulations with a view to countering the negative influence of stereotyped gender roles.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on empowering girls through education in the eu, as i believe that education remains the most effective weapon in the fight against discrimination and stereotypes. if we want a world where gender discrimination is a thing of the past, we need to treat the disease at its source, where it begins, which is in schools. our children need to be educated in the spirit of gender equality, they need to be taught about fundamental human rights and freedoms and they need to be accustomed to rejecting and not accepting different treatment between women and men. education is the foundation of our society's evolution, and i believe that only through education can we change some of the harmful behaviors that have deep roots in our history.
in writing. ‒ education is a fundamental human right that can offer better prospects for achievement in life. the way in which education systems provide equal opportunities regardless of gender is a matter of the utmost importance for today's society. this stems from a selection of curricula which discriminates against the role of women in society, a trend which must be combated at union and member state level. often, although women constitute a majority within the education system (both as teachers and as students), they are considered from the position of a minority, associated with belonging to other types of minorities (ethnic, sexual, people with disabilities). this situation must change as soon as possible and the european institutions have a decisive role to play in this regard. girls and women must have non-discriminatory access to education that truly offers them equal opportunities in life with boys and men. this includes, in addition to non-discriminatory curriculum content and adequate teacher training, a stronger focus on vulnerable groups and an update of teaching methods to include non-formal education. such reform requires our solidarity with all, regardless of gender or other affiliations.
in writing. i voted on the report on empowering girls through education. i welcome the initiative of the ep to produce a report on such a broad subject, calling on member states to promote the democratisation of education and the other conditions necessary for education, both in schools and through other means of instruction, to contribute to the creation of gender equality and equal opportunities, to overcoming economic, social and cultural inequalities, to stimulating personal development and a spirit of tolerance, solidarity and responsibility, facilitating social progress and democratic participation in community life. i agree that education is an important tool for women to be able to participate fully in social and economic development and that lifelong learning is essential to give them the skills to re-enter the labour market or find a better job with better pay and working conditions.
in writing. ‒ the member states of the european free trade association and the european union have established an agreement establishing equal conditions and non-differentiated treatment, thus contributing to the expansion of the european single market. the agreement of 21 june 1999 between the european community and the swiss confederation provides for the free movement of persons, the recognition of professional qualifications, lays down the basis for mutual recognition in the field of conformity assessment and establishes a framework for the application of public procurement contracts. the eu and switzerland have long-standing close economic relations, which have been factors of growth and stability. however, the implementation of the initiative 'against mass immigration' casts doubt on switzerland's continued compliance with the agreements in force, and the outcome of this decision may have a major impact on economic relations. given that cross-border professional mobility is a key factor in strengthening the internal market, i consider that switzerland should respect the conditions of reciprocity set out in the agreements in force. i voted in favour of this resolution because i am convinced that any damage to the free movement of persons within the european area means a review of the eu-switzerland agreements.
in writing. ‒ the eea agreement is a key factor for economic growth and the most far-reaching, comprehensive instrument to extend the single market to third countries; taking into account the internal developments in the eu, it has proven to be a solid, efficient and well-functioning agreement ensuring the integrity of the single market also in the long term. the obstacles to cross-border professional mobility have to be removed in order to deepen the internal market. cooperation under the agreement on mutual recognition in relation to conformity assessment is satisfactory, but the functioning of the agreement could be substantially improved if switzerland were to pledge to update it consistently in line with developments in eu law.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that calls for negotiations to be continued with switzerland with a view to establishing an institutional framework that will provide greater legal certainty for both switzerland and the eu and help switzerland to incorporate the necessary eu legislation.
in writing. ‒ the european economic area (eea) is the opportunity offered by the european union to develop cooperation in an institutionalised manner with the member states of the european free trade association (efta). three of these, iceland, liechtenstein and norway, have become full members of this continental economic structure, supporting the development of european economic relations on the basis of a common market. in the case of switzerland, non-participation in the eea has been compensated over the last two decades by the signature of over one hundred sectoral agreements. a number of obstacles relating to labour market access, disaster prevention, energy policy and free movement still need to be overcome in order to achieve legislative harmonisation between the eu and efta states. the many problems persist in relation to switzerland, which has chosen, through referendums, not to cooperate with the eu in a number of important areas, such as education, free movement, transport and agriculture. from this point of view, there is clearly a need for more cooperation and negotiations to overcome the existing deadlocks, rather than populist manipulation of sensitive issues. for these reasons, i support the adoption of this document, which is an important step towards strengthening the european economic area.
in writing. ‒ the migrant emergency must be solved by a long-term prospective, a vision of the future that we want to build together, imagined by a stronger europe in which member states respect and implement common rules on asylum policy. agreements like the schengen one have to be respected by all member states that are part of it. the refugee emergency has to be addressed at its roots, and safe areas must be created into countries affected by conflicts, where refugees could be safe and the eu could bring humanitarian and stabilization aid. i believe we must distinguish between asylum seekers, risking their lives to save their families, and economic migrants. it is counterproductive to impose compulsory quotas of migrants to all eu member states; it is important to take into consideration each and every country possibilities to accommodate and take care of large number of migrants.
in writing. ‒ at this point in time, regarding the refugee crisis in europe, the principle of solidarity is of crucial importance. it is paramount to offer both aid and assistance to the refugees. however, the notions of solidarity and security are not mutually exclusive. actions should only follow after a comprehensive overview is constructed concerning the ground situation of each individual member state. actions should also follow after an extensive analysis of the terrorist threat that occurs from the infiltration of radical activists amidst the refugees.
in writing. ‒ i decided to abstain to this vote because the document is unclear on the mechanisms that are going to be established by the member states on issues related to migration or refugees. i am a strong believer in solidarity but i support a true solidarity in all cases and concrete solutions to resolve the migration crisis and truly help the refugees.
in writing. ‒ i still believe it is very important that, again, we declare our support for a two-state solution with an independent, democratic palestinian state living side-by-side with israel and the other neighbours, a pillar of stability and democracy in the middle east. security of israel has to be guaranteed, as well. i welcome the efforts in the un security council, notably the initiative taken by france, to resume peace talks between israelis and palestinians through a resolution setting a framework and a timetable for this process and support the call for a comprehensive european union peace initiative to be presented at an international peace conference. our priority should be to ensure full respect for the rights of the people living in this area, whose personal safety and living conditions are threatened since decades by conflicts in middle east.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this resolution that calls on the commission and the european external action service to provide funding to ngos in the region whose political goals are in line with the overall goals of the middle east peace process.
in writing. ‒ i chose to abstain on this text as i am a firm believer in a balanced, two-state solution as the only way for all sides in the region to have prosperous, secure populations. the text, in its current form, is not convincing enough that it has understood this need.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the progress achieved by belarus in the areas of higher education, vocational training, the digital market, the energy sector and food safety, among others, that will most certainly lead to increased cooperation between belarus and europe. however, i remain concerned by the continued prejudice to human rights and fundamental freedoms, by the serious shortcomings observed during previous elections by independent international observers in belarus and by the lack of an effective rule of law. i believe the commission should support, through financial and political means, the efforts and democratic aspirations of belarusian civil society, independent media and non-governmental organisations in belarus who are leading the country towards more respect for democratic principles, for human right and for the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ belarus has made some efforts on its path to democratization throughout the past couple of years. i also welcome the constructive role that belarus played in forging the agreement that calls for a ceasefire in ukraine. however, i am deeply concerned regarding the human rights situation and the harassment of media outlets in the country. furthermore, i would like to draw attention to the fact that belarus is the only state in europe that still carries out capital punishment. as such, it must be recognised that belarus, although having taken steps towards democratization, still has great lengths to cover.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this resolution that recognises the progress that has been made in sectoral cooperation in the areas of higher education (the bologna process), vocational training, the digital market, the energy sector, food safety and culture, among others. it also calls on the commission to support, with financial and political means, the efforts of belarusian civil society, independent media and non-governmental organisations in belarus to fulfil the democratic aspirations of the belarusian people.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution as i believe we need profoundly to engage more with belarus and not write it off as a lost cause. when it comes to people, there should be no such approaches, and it is indeed disturbing just how alienated the eu is towards belarus, a country on our very own doorstep. while the language is at time harsher than i would have preferred, i think parliament is taking the necessary steps in ensuring continued scrutiny and an eventual re-engagement with this country.
in writing. ‒ the eu defined its approach for the coming years in the 2020 strategy, and it must not turn its back on the ambitious targets set. nevertheless, the economic and financial crisis that has affected the eu in recent years has meant that we are still far away from achieving these objectives, and we must now rethink the social and economic model to ensure that future growth is not only sustainable but also tallies with the principles of economic, social and territorial cohesion on which the eu is based. the social economy must play a key role in achieving these objectives. social economy enterprises have proved to be better able to withstand economic turbulence, and have been able to offer innovative solutions to boost social cohesion and inclusion and job creation. moreover, social economy enterprises have a strong local and regional basis and are able to offer solutions tailored to specific needs. social innovation and social entrepreneurship are key factors in developing the social economy, and work needs to be done in in order to promote it.
in writing. ‒ since the commission lunched the europe 2020 strategy significant progress has been made, however eu remains far from achieving the targets set, primarily those relating to employment, innovation and the reduction of poverty and social exclusion. the report calls on the commission to propose a legal framework for social economy enterprises, a european statute for cooperative societies, associations, foundations and mutual societies. social economy enterprises play an important role and should be adequately recognised.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that will promote social innovation and social entrepreneurship in areas like education and training, improved financing, greater visibility at european and national level and exchange of information and best practice, action to promote the development of the social economy in the eu and member states and improved legal framework
in writing. ‒ i strongly support this report as it marks a turning point in the advancement of social entrepreneurship throughout the european union. these two terms, perhaps not intuitively compatible with each other, have come to show the value of having your cake and eating it. it means social and solidarity-based businesses and investments can actually turn a profit, benefiting the people involved in many ways. the eu and the member states need definitely to promote social entrepreneurship programmes, as well as training, to better develop this upcoming market.
in writing. i voted for the own-initiative report on social entrepreneurship and social innovation in combating unemployment. i agree with the proposal that asks the commission to recognise the diversity of social enterprises and to ensure that measures are taken at eu level to support all types of social and solidarity enterprises. they also agree with the call to the ec and the member states to consistently implement the measures set out in the 2012 social entrepreneurship initiative.
in writing. ‒ unemployment is a social problem with serious economic implications, a problem facing the member states of the union. there are about 2 million jobs for which qualified people cannot be found, and the youth unemployment rate is 21.4%. the european labour market poses challenges, with strong segmentation, skills mismatches, low labour mobility, and problems caused by demographic ageing and technological advances that generate new demands for highly skilled labour. thus, coherent economic labour market policies are needed to stimulate better integration of young people, women and older workers, and active support for job creation through investment, as well as training and retraining programmes for the unemployed, is needed to ensure a match between existing skills and labour market demand. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that a concerted effort is needed to reduce unemployment, and that a long-term strategy is needed, coupled with immediate measures to adapt education systems at all levels, especially vocational training, to the needs and demands of the labour market.
in writing. ‒ unemployment continues to be one of the main challenges in the eu, especially among young people. the unemployment rate is still alarming, as well as the significant differences of unemployment rates between member states. i agree on the emphasis given to the need to achieve a competitive labour market, to the implementation of reforms that can increase labour market and personal career flexibility, to the better matching of skills and jobs, including stronger synergies between education systems and labour markets. the issue of the skills mismatches, however, should not hide the real problems of the labour markets, the need to fight precarious employment and social inequalities, to invest in human capital in order to prepare the labour markets for the future and to foster a comprehensive approach regarding labour mobility, based on the free movement of citizens and workers and the principle of equal pay for equal work. the notion of self-responsibility of the unemployed persons and the call for more flexible labour markets must be counterbalanced with social protection for workers and unemployed people.
in writing. ‒ we should focus on bringing education, training and labour markets together. the s&d group puts the fight against precarious employment and social inequalities on top of its agenda. we believe in the free movement of citizens and workers and the principle of equal pay for equal work. the investment in human capital is a must and this is important in order to prepare the labour markets for the future and to foster a comprehensive approach regarding labour mobility.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that stresses reforms are needed in order to increase labour market and personal career flexibility, better matching of skills and jobs, including stronger synergies between education systems and businesses.
in writing. ‒ standing at only slightly below 10% after several years of recovery from the crisis, the eu unemployment rate includes huge disparities not only among member states but also between women and men, young, experienced and aged, people with and without disabilities, roma or non-roma, etc. the eu will fail to meet the europe 2020 strategy target of having 75% of people of working age employed and to have a dynamic and competitive labour market if it does not implement forward-looking structural reforms that would tackle such imbalances. the lack of qualified labour in several areas and increasing skill-mismatches resulting in millions of unfilled jobs in the eu are again strong concerns that have to be addressed. as the report recognised most of these issues, i was glad to vote in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on creating a competitive eu labour market for the 21st century: matching skills and qualifications with demand and employment opportunities as a means of recovery from the crisis. i agree with the rapporteur that to achieve a competitive labour market in the eu, ambitious reforms are needed that increase inclusion, smart flexibility, innovation and mobility, strengthen the role of social dialogue, stimulate more job creation leading to quality and sustainable employment, increase productivity and contribute to the development of human capital, bearing in mind that labour markets and production patterns are constantly changing.
in writing. ‒ the 30th and 31st annual reports of the commission on the application of eu law are designed to analyse the extent to which member states comply with their obligations under eu law. it was noted that the areas in which member states were most frequently subject to infringement procedures in 2012 and 2013 were transport, health protection, consumer protection and environmental protection, the internal market and services. even if difficulties in dialogue between certain member states still persist, it must be borne in mind that in a european union based on the rule of law and the predictability of laws, european citizens need to be informed in a transparent and timely manner of the national rules adopted as a result of the transposition of eu law and of the national authorities responsible for their correct implementation. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that close monitoring of member states' actions is important for the rigorous transposition of directives, but also in the process of reducing complaints from citizens who are increasingly aware of the benefits of applying eu rules properly.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the commission’s 30th and 31st annual reports on the application of eu law. according to these reports the four fields in which member states were mostly subject to transposition infringement proceedings in 2012 were transport, protection of health and consumers, protection of the environment, and issues related to the internal market and services, whereas in 2013 the most problematic areas were the environment, protection of health and consumers, the internal market and services, and transport. however, that this ex-post evaluation does not replace the commission’s duty to monitor in an effective and timely fashion the application and implementation of eu law. parliament could assist in reviewing the implementation of legislation through its scrutiny of the commission.
in writing. ‒ taking into consideration that implementation and transposition of eu law remain uneven across member states, i have voted for this report that will better regulate issues related to the internal market and services, transport, protection of health and consumers and protection of the environment.
in writing.– i believe that, according to principles of solidarity, it is necessary for the commission to forge a mechanism and offer aid to countries in need. thus, i salute the commission’s initiative. however, i strongly suggest that an extensive, on-the-ground analysis of each individual member state must be made before the redistribution attempt. furthermore, i would like to note that it is dangerous to allow freedom of movement without considering the terrorist threat that is associated with the infiltration of radical activists amidst the refugees.
in writing. any european energy programme needs to be reviewed in the light of new trends in energy resources. the fall in the price of oil to below $50 a barrel has changed the entire global outlook on investment, production and consumption of fossil fuels, but also on renewable energy. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted through state resources and does not distort competition and affects trade between member states. all the targets proposed for this year's paris conference on reducing the causes of climate change with impacts on human life and the environment should therefore also be reviewed.
in writing. the energy union strategy is one step closer to being implemented with the adoption by the european commission of a package of necessary measures. what i am glad of is that the measures are aimed primarily at energy consumers at all levels, from individual households to commercial and industrial consumers. finally, we have adopted the logic of delivering benefits to european consumers by reorganising the european electricity market, updating the energy efficiency labelling system and revising the union's emissions trading scheme. the measures are undoubtedly ambitious, but they strengthen the position of energy consumers in europe and at the same time send a signal to partners at global level ahead of the long-awaited paris conference. the proposal to revise the eu emissions trading system aims to create new business opportunities and open up new markets for innovation through the need to use low-carbon technologies. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy-efficient transport policy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy-efficient transport policy.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i appreciate first of all the solidarity that the european commission is showing us and the farmers, but i would like to think that this is not just a hypocritical act, but also an understanding that you, commissioner, have the responsibility to explain to mr juncker. it's a difficult time for us, for all of us who work in agriculture. i think we all regret the crisis we are in now, and the last farmers' demonstration in brussels gave a strong signal that this situation must end. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the milk sector. here we are five months later, and we're still talking about the negative impact of the russian embargo. in brussels, german, french and belgian farmers who had been favoured by the commission and the court next door were able to take part in the debate and to demonstrate against the crisis in the milk, pigmeat, beef and cereals sectors caused by the drought. not all european farmers could do this. from romania only a few representatives could be present but, in no case, could they bring a tractor, they would not afford. so even expressing one's opinion publicly has become a luxury. you have to be able to afford it, but that's not the point. although the imbalance between european countries in the agricultural sector also influences this. we are all in crisis, but i ask you one thing: do not support differentiated, depending on the strength of the demonstration. if we have a common market, let it be common. in conclusion, i ask for your support in finding sales outside the community, otherwise we will kill each other in a market over-saturated with products. i want to go to the supermarket and buy locally produced milk. if we have extra milk, we find a third market, we have to adopt those regulations so that the hypermarkets reduce margins and taxes. during the last farmers' strike in brussels in front of the parliament, young farmers informed the citizens about the situation in the milk sector and gave a simple example: the production cost is 0.40 cents per litre, the farmer price is 0.25 and in the supermarket, for citizens, 0.50. if this situation continues, we will be helplessly watching the collapse of the most important agricultural sectors, at least in eastern europe. thank you. thank you.
mr president, commissioner, the milk and pigmeat crisis is causing a lot of controversy in europe, and the package proposed by the european commission is a response to the difficulties in the sector, but not enough to provide the support that farmers expect from us. for example, for romania, the amount of eur 11.1 million is small for the 1 150 000 direct payment applicants, as well as for producers affected by the russian embargo on the one hand and by the drought on the other. today we are talking about a crisis, a crisis that is persisting, and that is why i believe that, in addition to the financial package proposed by the commission, in addition to the measures relating to the flexibility granted to the member states to direct aid towards the appropriate measures, aid for private storage, targeted or state aid, it must be borne in mind that there is also a crisis reserve for the crisis. moreover, all these measures are intended to solve the current situation, but what is needed is to find medium- and long-term solutions that provide an adequate response. thank you. thank you.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the commission's decision to allocate eur 500 million to support farmers. however, we are witnessing a dark period for agriculture in the european union and, by implication, in romania. the russian embargo, the elimination of quotas on the milk market and, above all, this year's drought are putting the entire agricultural sector in a major difficulty. i would like to draw particular attention to the plight of livestock farmers who, in the face of the current crisis, are forced to slaughter their animals because they can no longer cope with the maintenance costs due to the high price of feed, and are therefore demanding much more support. we also cannot continue to ignore the major differences in direct subsidies received by farmers in the member states, which, in relation to the same single market, create unacceptable inequalities. i therefore stress once again the need for linearity in subsidies for all farmers in the member states. thank you. thank you.
in writing. over time, we have adopted a number of reforms to the common agricultural policy, but farmers' situation does not seem to be improving. farmers' incomes are still unstable, price volatility in certain sectors, such as dairy, cannot be combated. the market orientation of the cap has unfortunately not brought fair incomes for farmers. retailers often have unfair policies, and until we can ensure fairness along the food chain, we cannot talk about decent incomes for our farmers. the market access of many producers is still limited, they simply sell their products wholesale at zero prices. our farmers, the ones who produce the food we enjoy every day, have below-average incomes and, moreover, are very uncertain. i hope that today the commission will realise that we cannot afford to see our producers go bankrupt. the fire-fighting allocation of funds every time a crisis arises is not a sustainable solution, farmers need stability and decent incomes.
trust and solidarity: these are the main elements that have enabled us to build together the democratic model and the european union of today. but in the last few years, too many times we've believed that what we've built can't be destroyed. nothing could be more false than that. the fact that the schengen area has been suspended in recent days, that certain countries are not showing solidarity or that they are making financial threats, in my opinion, represent real dangers for the european project. the lack of dialogue between us makes us forget the interest of european citizens and privilege political scandals. europe needs real leadership, that allows us to work together. over five hundred million inhabitants means effectively over five hundred million opinions and a single minute in which i say now and strongly reaffirm that together we can build the european project, defend and support it, as i have been advocating for many years, for seven years, together with my organization, pes activists romania. ladies and gentlemen, we're talking about refugees, but to see the real problem, we need only look at this room, which is almost empty. the question is whether we still respect european principles, whether there is trust and solidarity between us, so that we guarantee all our citizens, german, spanish or romanian, all the rights and support for a better life.
mr president, the watchword in the european union today is solidarity. the wars in syria and afghanistan, however, have not only generated the largest waves of refugees in decades, who see europe not just as a place of hope, but also as a place of peace and stability, as has been said before. the refugee crisis is taking on new dimensions every day, which makes the european union collectively responsible. romania has been and is part of the solution, standing firm for human solidarity, rejecting radical demonstrations, barbed wire fences, water cannons and tear gas, acting in the spirit of respect for the values of the rights and freedoms of citizens, regardless of race or religion. however, we believe that the ability of the member states to meet their obligations objectively when it comes to the resettlement of refugees must be taken into account, and it is therefore not enough to set figures which can change from one hour to the next.
in writing. ‒ the europe 2020 strategy is a sound basis for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, and if its objectives are to be confirmed before the end of this year, its implementation tools need to be updated and strengthened now. in this context, a solid solution must be found to all the union's social problems, in particular unemployment, skills gaps, social disparities and exclusion, and the risks of social dumping and brain drain. i believe that there is a need for economic recovery and for investment to stimulate the creation of quality jobs, social investment focused on skills, childcare and other social services. this is why we need to promote a stronger involvement of the social partners at european level, but also at national level.
in writing. i supported the resolution on the commission work programme for 2016 as a whole, but did not vote for some parts of it that could be interpreted as supporting the mandatory quota mechanism for the distribution of refugees. i particularly welcomed the provisions in the work programme which speak of the need to legislate at european level only in areas where it is really necessary and to revise the legislative proposals already in preparation in this respect. i also strongly support proposals to significantly reduce the administrative burden and bureaucracy in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the european commission's 2016 programme downplays the most important phenomenon currently facing the european commission, that of the influx of migrants, which is expected to intensify next year. the commission also has to restore the sovereignty of national states in terms of internal border control and asylum policies in view of the new challenges facing the union, in order to cope with the wave of economic migrants from the arab region seeking refugee status. the european commission's programme also does not include a package of proposals to tighten and make more effective the laws restricting the movement of terrorists by strengthening the external borders of the european union. another shortcoming of the european commission's 2016 programme proposal is the lack of proposals to improve the framework for combating illicit arms trafficking, illicit trafficking in persons. the lack of new regulations to impose an effective standard for travel documents, to combat the phenomenon of fraudulent use of identity are also arguments that led me to vote against the commission's 2016 work programme proposal.
in writing. ‒ europe must respond with a clear vision and ambitious and courageous leadership to the challenges we face, both within the union and globally. the european commission's work programme must therefore address these challenges of the 21st century, including climate change, energy independence, resource efficiency, the transition to a digital society, global competition and rising inequality, and the growing expectations of our citizens. the current situation of loss of european competitiveness in the global economy, rising unemployment, demographic change and ageing of the population is unprecedented. our response must be in the form of macroeconomic policies that develop the framework needed to create jobs and raise the living standards of european citizens. i am pleased that the commission's programme is shifting the focus to solidarity and investment rather than simply spending the funds available. my vote is a call to the european commission to come up with a strong response to the social problems in the european union. growth and job creation must once again become the cornerstone of the european social market economy and the european union's strategy for sustainable development.
on behalf of the epp group madam president, the epp group would like to include this topic, namely a discussion on georgia and the selective justice in this country. it's a very serious subject, i think we have to deal with the issue of judicial independence and the relationship between politics and justice in georgia. i appeal to my liberal colleagues and my socialist colleagues, who i know support very strongly the power in georgia. the issue we're proposing is important and i would urge them to vote for our support. in particular, i am addressing the socialists, who support, within the european union, a prime minister who is also the head of the social democratic party in romania, who is being sued, and i think it would be time to break with him. thank you for your attention.
madam president, i'm speaking on the emergency agenda for thursday morning. it is the second time in recent months that instead of three items on the urgent agenda we have four and i would like to remind you of rule 135 of the rules of procedure, which states: 'the total number of items on the agenda may not exceed three, including the sub-items.' i understand that we have four subjects because president schulz insisted on adding a fourth, breaking the rules of procedure for the second time. i would like to reduce the number of urgent subjects to three, as the rules require, because having four subjects means that the debate time for each of them is reduced. i don't think we should break our rules. thank you. thank you.
madam president, considering the fact that greece has been very much affected by the consequences of the financial and economic crisis, that it faces a critical lack of public funds and consequently has difficulties in co-financing the investments of the european structural and investment funds, i strongly support the proposal to provide additional pre-financing in the current financial period, as well as to increase the co-financing rate for the 2014-2020 operational programmes. in view of the urgency of the need for support in greece, i also welcome the agreement within the political groups on the necessity of the introduction of a simplified procedure. greece is part of the european architecture and it has to stay that way.
in writing. i agree with the measures proposed in the report, which meet the requirements of greece. however, i believe that the measures on increasing the absorption rate of the structural and investment funds for the period 2007-2013, such as, for example, increasing co-financing from the european funds to 100% of eligible expenditure, should be extended to some member states with a lower absorption rate of the european funds, such as romania and bulgaria. these member states, like greece, are in danger of losing billions of euros of eu funds allocated in the 2007-13 financial year.
madam president, i would first of all like to congratulate my colleague, eleni theocharous, on the preparation of this report. today's debate is, i think, important because it comes shortly after the adoption in new york of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development. as you know, it's an ambitious agenda, which includes the desire to end extreme poverty and to engage all countries on the path of sustainable development by 2030. at the implementation level, the involvement of local authorities and civil society will be crucial if we want the sustainable development goals to become a reality. as theocharous report also underlines, local authorities have a major role in providing the link between citizens and government, as well as in building democratic ownership of the development agenda at the level of each country. that is why it is essential to support the action of local authorities, to enable them to take on this role fully in the provision of basic services, but also to ensure participation and accountability at the subnational level, despite what mr schaffhauser said earlier, who does not see this level at all. i also think it is important to support the institutional capacity building of local authorities and, as the theocharous report says, there is a need for political dialogue between local authorities in our development cooperation. finally, as the permanent rapporteur on policy coherence for development, i would like to stress that local authorities can play an important role in this respect too, because they can promote and monitor this concept. their role in development policies, in policy coherence for development, has not been sufficiently explored at european level or outside the union. so we need, i think, a specific framework for cohesion policy to be carried out in an inclusive framework. thank you for your attention. (the president agreed to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question asked in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure. madam president, to be honest, i do not understand the connection - intellectually speaking - between respect for the nation-state and what the honourable member said, namely development understood only as a purchase of authorities. there is no logical connection between these two universes, between the universe of the nation-state and this absurd correlation. development is not about buying up territory or authority. there's, i think, a misunderstanding here. perhaps the hon. member has misplaced the debate. maybe he was trying to get to another room. thank you. thank you.
madam president, local authorities will play an essential role in achieving the post-2015 sustainable development goals that have just been adopted in new york and that shape the new global development agenda for the next 15 years. moreover, they play a crucial role in safeguarding vulnerable populations in fragile crisis conditions. i strongly support partnership programmes with local authorities with a view to ensuring that they are the main actors who implement the new agenda at the level that is closest to citizens. acknowledgement of their role as state stakeholders represents a major step forward for the european union’s new development agenda. however, these new guidelines must be translated into effective implementation, both in terms of the 11th european development fund and in terms of the development cooperation instrument. promoting decentralised cooperation is a way of implementing the post-2015 development framework and should become a priority funding sector for our external aid financing instruments.
madam president, commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate my colleague, eleni theocharous, on this important report. i think it's very important that we can support national governments, but also local authorities in developing countries, both financially and by providing technical assistance to them. it is necessary and urgent that the european union effectively uses its external and development policies to combat poverty, but also the causes that generate and sustain conflict. lack of education and prospects for young people, poverty, unemployment, discrimination, marginalisation and corruption make young generations the sure victims of radicalisation and extremism, as we have seen, and condemn citizens to poverty and insecurity. preventing and resolving these conflicts, as well as development, must be priorities in a coordinated overall european union strategy, using both diplomatic instruments for maintaining peace and security and economic and human rights instruments. a good example is the financial support that the european union has promised and is to provide to the authorities in jordan, lebanon and turkey. it is extremely important to help these countries, which have made an impressive humanitarian effort, and not only in managing the refugee camps, but also in supporting local authorities, which are struggling to provide health, education and social assistance for their own citizens. at the same time, however, i believe it is vital to have effective international cooperation to monitor whether these funds are really being used for their intended purposes. thank you. thank you.
madam president, in many member states of the european union local and regional authorities are officially competent to participate in national development policies through decentralised cooperation. they can therefore be seen as direct actors in the union's development policy and external affairs. i believe that municipalities and regions need to be more involved, based on partnership and expertise, by focusing efforts primarily on specific areas that are the responsibility of local or regional public administration. sustainable development can only be ensured if certain responsibilities are assigned to those who are best aware of the specific realities and characteristics at local and regional level. however, we must not forget the essential role of local authorities, namely that of guaranteeing social and territorial cohesion. thank you. thank you.
in writing.– the local authorities can and should play an important role in developing countries. engaging them in development cooperation could lead to a better exchange of experiences and know-how that could strengthen the administrative capacity of local authorities from developing countries. therefore the eu should try, through its development cooperation instruments, to integrate the rising involvement of local authorities from the different member states in establishing better cooperation with partners from developing countries. this strategy of involving local authorities is linked to the sustainable development goals that imply a stronger participation at local level and a direct partnership with the beneficiaries of development aid. cooperation is needed at local level to assess better the needs of the population and the know-how brought by local authorities could lead to a better use of the development funds and projects already established by the european union and the member states.
madam president, i believe, considering the large number of petitions received by parliament denouncing abusive terms in mortgage contracts and risky financial instruments in spain, that it is appropriate to request the commission to inquire effectively into whether there have been violations of fundamental rights and infringements of european legislation. we must be straightforward and take the lead to put an end to bank-related infringements of eu consumer rights laws in spain. the situation in spain is critical. since 2008 more than 700 000 people have completely or partially lost their savings and nearly 400 000 have been evicted from their homes. the spanish government should act as soon as possible to put an end to this situation and to put forward initiatives to keep this from happening in the future.
mr president, it is absolutely unacceptable that we permit hacking companies to sell to authoritarian regimes when we know that their products could be used to spy on journalists, dissidents and citizens, thereby using high-definition (hd) technology to facilitate gross human rights abuses. even if they do not sell directly to authoritarian regimes, they are almost as guilty by letting dangerous tools fall into the hands of malicious states or non-state actors. if that happens, their failure to keep track of exports of their own software means that they do not care if their technology is misused and do not care about the vulnerability of those who defend human rights. it is vital that we find a way to control the export of these tools that could be used to target human rights activists and pro-democracy supporters at home and abroad.
the debate is closed.
the next item on the agenda is a minute's speech on important political issues (rule 163).
mr president, we talk a lot about solidarity at this time and it is normal to be like that. romania is in solidarity with its european partners and it is normal that this attitude is doubled by solidarity in rights. that would be right and in line with the values and principles of the european union that we all believe in. solidarity means rights and obligations respected and assumed to the same extent by all member states. i believe that romania's accession to the schengen area will increase the security of this area. we are a responsible eu member state. moreover, romania already acts as a de facto schengen state, if we look at the model in which our country secures its borders. i call on european political leaders to take account of the efforts and results of the romanian authorities and to drop the political objections that have so far stopped romania's entry into schengen. thank you. thank you.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it may seem hard to believe that almost a quarter of europe's citizens live below the poverty line. of these, about 55 million do not have the opportunity to eat a normal meal every day. europe is becoming a land of paradoxes. between 90 and 120 million tons of food are wasted every year. slurping becomes a habit, while studies show that one in three children is either overweight or obese. we are investing in health, in research, in prevention, while almost 10% of eu citizens are not able to eat properly. i proposed a half a million euros to develop those practices that limit food waste. that is why i believe it is the duty of all member states and the european commission to work together to increase the area of food redistribution. europe is facing new challenges today. the number of refugees is constantly increasing, and now is the time to think about all the things we can do to limit waste and use resources for poor families. my message is this: stop food waste, educate your citizens, come up with solutions to redistribute food resources that are otherwise being wasted. thank you. thank you.
this item on the agenda has been closed.
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs virginie rozière, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the possibility of extending the protection of geographical indications of the european union to non-agricultural products (com (2014) 0469 - 2015/2053 (ini)) (a8-0259/2015).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 6 october 2015. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
question asked in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure. mr president, madam president, this is an emergency situation, and we all agree that we must help people because we are people. my question is: do you not think that both the commission and the council should explain very clearly how the case is being resolved, in order to increase the confidence of europeans in taking care of these people who are suffering? i have not understood from the commission and the council how they are resolving the cause of these created situations.
in writing.– the current humanitarian crisis shows that it is of vital importance to engage in responsible politics. i agree that this crisis is very much concerned with responsibility. we must come up with european solutions to european problems. the solution needs to be that of an improved europe. in a modern europe, we need modern conventions, unlike dublin. solutions take into account both solidarity and responsibility, which should be fundamentally intertwined values. both of these values are imperative for the existence of the european union, for the member states and for their citizens.
in writing. the situation of refugees in the eu is as dire as that of the population living on the margins of the eu's eastern countries, but unlike refugees, the eu's laws do not allow them to ask for humanitarian aid. as the ranks of refugees grow and move to europe, it doesn't seem to me that the european institutions are really trying to get involved in ending the war in syria and stabilizing the situation. as long as the political instability and conflict in syria continues, the situation of refugees and of states that cannot afford to manage them will become increasingly desperate. it is absolutely necessary to create a suitable structure for refugees who are already on european territory and who will face the winter season. the current situation is more than desperate, it is a humanitarian crisis that will deepen the already existing crisis in the countries of south-eastern europe, which were trying to find a functional balance within the eu. mandatory refugee quotas will only incite the poor european populations to violence: it will be a fight between the poor europeans of the eastern european union and the poor refugees of syria.
in writing. ‒ since the adoption of the convention in 1930, the international labour conference has called on member states to eliminate the use of forced labour as soon as possible and to criminalise any such practice. yet, more than 80 years later, the international labour organization (ilo) estimates that at least 20.9 million people are victims of forced labour worldwide. this protocol aims to address all implementation gaps and to make progress in the prevention of trafficking in human beings for the purpose of labour exploitation, as well as issues related to the protection and compensation of victims of forced labour. in this context, ilo member states should develop a well-defined policy and action plan at national level and take measures to implement the provisions of the protocol. i voted in favour of the council's proposal to ratify the 2014 protocol to the 1930 international labour organisation forced labour convention as it concerns fundamental rights, victims and combating trafficking and is an important step towards guaranteeing the rights of victims of crime across europe.
in writing. ‒ one of the eight fundamental ilo conventions, which defines the fundamental international labour standards, is the labour convention, adopted in 1930 and considered as an instrument for the protection of human rights. the ilo estimates that worldwide, some 20.9 million people are victims of forced labor. i support the ratification in the interest of the eu by member states of the 2014 protocol to the 1930 ilo labour convention. i consider it a priority to address implementation gaps and to make progress in the prevention of trafficking in human beings for the purpose of labour exploitation, as well as in the protection and compensation of victims of forced labour.
in writing. ‒ i believe that, under the protocol, ilo member states must develop policies and a national action plan for the effective and sustained suppression of forced labour and take measures to implement the provisions of the protocol, consulting both employers' and workers' organisations. i believe that we must consider the protection of migrant workers against potentially abusive and fraudulent recruitment and placement practices and we must fight to eradicate the root causes that cause the increased risks of forced labour.
in writing. ‒ this report represents parliament’s position on a draft council decision authorising member states to ratify the protocol of 2014 to the forced labour convention of the international labour organisation. articles 1-4 of the protocol touch on matters relating to judicial cooperation in criminal matters and thus require the eu to authorise member states to ratify it. as this is an international convention which seeks to enhance the protection of workers and tackle forced or compulsory labour, it is something which i fully and wholeheartedly support. the report simply confirms parliament’s consent for the draft decision and has been adopted in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) with the unanimous vote of those members present. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the international labour organization estimates that 20.9 million people are victims of forced labour globally. forced labor is considered one of the most profitable criminal activities in the world. this report shall address the ratification of the forced labour convention as regards aspects related to judicial cooperation in criminal matters. this is one of the eight core ilo conventions for which the european parliament's opinion is required. i voted for this report because harmonising international labour standards is a tool for protecting human rights and reducing the risk of impunity. the protocol aims at concrete measures: the development of a national policy and action plan for the effective and sustained abolition of forced labour. even if ratification of this protocol is voluntary, the protection of the fundamental rights of these people is a permanent responsibility for each of us.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this recommendation for a protocol that seeks to address the gaps in implementation and to make progress on preventing trafficking for labour exploitation as well as protecting and compensating victims of forced labour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is absolutely necessary that those elements of the 1930 international labour organisation forced labour convention which are lacking be completed and adapted to the new social and economic realities. forced labour is unfortunately still present in our societies, including in developed, civilized and free states, where it takes on new forms. however, this forced labour is most often associated with trafficking in human beings and organised crime and is cross-border in nature. the fight against forced labor, against slavery is part of our civilization, because we are committed to defending and fighting for the rights and freedoms of people. this report, which supports the adoption by member states of the new protocol to the convention, is an important step in the fight against the practices that lead to forced labour and thus provides means to help people in such situations to overcome them and start a new life.
in writing. ‒ eighty-five years after the signature of the forced labour convention almost 900 000 people in the european union are still being coerced by their recruiters or employers to work against their free will. women are especially vulnerable in this regard, half of women in forced labour being sexually exploited. with physical violence replaced by more elusive coercive measures, like the retention of identity documents or threats of denunciation to immigration authorities, such dreadful practices are even more difficult to detect and, as a consequence, successful prosecutions remain rare. therefore i do hope that today’s consent by parliament for authorising member states to ratify the new protocol will endow the responsible authorities with the 21st century means to fight against this terrible form of human rights violation.
in writing. ‒ the ratification of the 2014 protocol to the labour convention is an important step in the fight against trafficking in human beings and in guaranteeing the rights of victims of this crime in europe. the labour convention, the protocol to which we are referring, defines international labour standards and serves as an instrument for the protection of fundamental human rights. despite the adoption of this convention by the member states of the international labour organisation, 20.9 million people are still victims of forced labour worldwide. i voted to ratify the protocol because we need a policy and action plan at the level of each member state to eliminate forced labour practices. i expect that, for more effective implementation, the provisions of the protocol will be discussed with employers' and workers' organisations at a later stage. unfortunately, we currently lack a mechanism for educating and informing people about the prevention of forced labour. the most vulnerable are migrant workers, by nature of abusive and fraudulent recruitment and placement practices. this protocol will enable us to identify, release and provide assistance and support to victims, including by not prosecuting them for the illegal activities they were forced to engage in.
in writing. ‒ the international labour organisation convention on the abolition of forced labour was adopted as early as 1930, but despite this, according to the ilo, 21 million people are currently victims of forced labour, generating an illegal profit of $150 million in the private economy every year. forced labour is a truly global problem, affecting all regions and countries of the world, whether industrialized or developing, rich or poor. forced labor is the opposite of decent work, violating all of its fundamental norms. in this regard, the 2014 additional protocol to the forced labour convention is a binding legal instrument, which aims to strengthen prevention, protection and compensation measures, as well as to redouble efforts towards the elimination of contemporary forms of slavery. by ratifying this protocol, states undertake to ensure that all victims have access to all possible remedies and that the competent authorities have the right not to prosecute victims for illegal activities they have been forced to perform. the ratification of this protocol is therefore an important step in the fight against slavery. i therefore voted in favour of ratifying the 2014 protocol on forced labour.
in writing. ‒ between 2010 and 2012, 21 deaths were reported in four member states, with 4-methylamphetamine alone or in combination with other substances. in some cases, the predominant substance detected was 4-methylamphetamine. this substance is a derivative of the methyl synthesis of the controlled substance amphetamine nucleus, which produces physical effects comparable to those produced by other stimulants such as amphetamine. although scientific evidence on the overall risks and specific patterns of use of 4-methylamphetamine is still limited at this stage, there are grounds for subjecting the substance to control measures at union level. furthermore, considering that the manufacture, trafficking and supply of 4-methylamphetamine appear to involve organised crime and given the similarity of this substance to amphetamine, the possibility of 4-methylamphetamine becoming an alternative to amphetamine further justifies the subjecting of the substance to control measures. i voted in favour of the draft council implementing decision on the control measures for 4-methylamphetamine, as the main objective is for member states to subject 4-methylamphetamine to control measures and criminal sanctions under their legislation, in accordance with their obligations under the 1971 united nations convention on psychotropic substances.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the draft decision on the control of 4-methylamphetamine.
in writing. ‒ according to european union legislation on information exchange, assessment and control of new psychoactive substances, the commission proposes to control, throughout the whole territory of the european union, this psychoactive substance. the presence and illicit manufacture of the substance is confirmed in several member states and several deaths caused by it have been recognised within the european union. the report supports the commission’s proposal. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because 4-methylamphetamine is a toxic substance that should be subject to strict control measures in eu countries. this substance has appeared on the illicit amphetamine market, where it is sold and used as a controlled drug, amphetamine. 4-methylamphetamine is produced and distributed by the same organised crime groups that are involved in trafficking amphetamine. once this report is adopted, the psychoactive substance will be subject to strict control measures: a rapid exchange of information between member state authorities and eu bodies (europol and the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction), a risk assessment by a scientific committee and a european procedure for the control of notified substances. the union states should endeavour to subject this psychotropic substance to control measures and criminal sanctions provided for in their legislation, in accordance with their obligations under the un convention against illicit trafficking in narcotic drugs. we need to combat drug use at european level and ensure a high level of protection of the health of our citizens through close cooperation between the union and the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report that will regulate control measures for the following drug substance: 4-methylamphetamine.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the exchange of information, risk assessment and control of new psychoactive substances, such as 5-[2-aminopropyl]indole, is welcome.
in writing. ‒ according to european union legislation on information exchange, assessment and control of new psychoactive substances, the commission proposes to control, throughout the whole territory of the european union, this psychoactive substance. the presence and illicit manufacture of the substance is confirmed in several member states and several deaths caused by it have been recognised within the european union. the report supports the commission’s proposal. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report that will regulate control measures for the following drug substance: 5-(2-aminopropyl)indole.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the draft decision on the control of 4-iodine-2,5-dimethoxy-n-{2-methoxybenzyl) phenethylamine (25i-nbome), 3,4-dichloro-n-{1-{dimethylamino) cyclohexyl]methyl]benzamide (ah-7921), 3,4-methylenedioxypyrovalerone (mdpv) and 2-{3-methoxyphenyl) 2-{ethylamino) cyclohexanone (methoxetamine).
in writing. ‒ according to european union legislation on information exchange, assessment and control of new psychoactive substances, the council proposes to control, throughout the whole territory of the european union, this psychoactive substance. the presence and illicit manufacture of the substance is confirmed in several member states and several deaths caused by it have been recognised within the european union. the report supports the council’s proposal. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report that will regulate control measures for the following drug substances: 25i-nbome, ah-7921, mdpv and methoxetamine.
in writing. ‒ i consider that the exchange of information, risk assessment and control of the new psychoactive substances 44-methyl-5- ((4-methylphenyl) -4,5-dihydroxazol-2-amine (4,4-dmar) and 1-cyclohexyl-4- ((1,2-diphenylethyl) piperazine (mt-45) is welcome.
in writing. ‒ according to european union legislation on information exchange, assessment and control of new psychoactive substances, the council proposes to control, throughout the whole territory of the european union, this psychoactive substance. the presence and illicit manufacture of the substance is confirmed in several member states and several deaths caused by it have been recognised within the european union. the report supports the council’s proposal. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report that will regulate control measures for the following drug substances: 4,4'-dmar and mt-45.
in writing. ‒ the beginning of 2015 was a very difficult time for bulgaria and greece. both snow and flooding led to total direct damage of eur 243 305 million for bulgaria and eur 395 878 million for greece. the events in these two countries are considered to be a major natural disaster. as regards bulgaria, the south-east region was the most severely affected, with over 300 buildings flooded in just one city. the commission also found that the average annual rainfall in the union was between 0,9 and 0,9 mm. as regards greece, the agricultural sector has been the most affected. some 17,500 ha of land was flooded and agricultural infrastructure, warehouses and crops were destroyed. 150 km of roads were damaged or destroyed, and water and sanitation infrastructure was damaged in 17 settlements. the profound impact of these disasters on the two countries and the high level of damage led me to vote in favour of the allocation of eur 16 274 765 for the two countries and, implicitly, in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the solidarity fund in the case of bulgaria and greece.
in writing. ‒ i support the mobilisation, under point 11 of the interinstitutional agreement on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management of 2 december 2013 (between the ep, the council and the commission), of the eu solidarity fund to provide financial assistance for disasters in bulgaria (harsh winter conditions triggered a disaster classified as a 'major natural disaster' under the eusf) and in greece (for two disasters, namely the floods in evros and the central region of greece, classified as 'regional disasters' under the eusf), which occurred in early 2015.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the two member states fulfil the conditions for the granting of aid made available by the solidarity fund and i believe that the fund should be mobilised to provide a financial contribution and aid to the regions of bulgaria and greece that were seriously affected by the damage in 2015.
in writing. ‒ in early 2015, bulgaria and greece have been affected by severe floods that caused significant damage to public infrastructure, businesses, homes, private property and to the agricultural sector as well. considering the fact that they have been submitting an application to the eu solidarity fund, and the fact that the applications meet the conditions for awarding aid from the fund, i endorsed the mobilization of eur 16 274 765 in commitment and payment appropriations by the eu solidarity fund.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. the european union solidarity fund enables the union to respond in a rapid and efficient manner to emergency situations and to show solidarity with the population of regions faced by disasters. this report concerns the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund for a total amount of eur 16 274 765 in commitment and payment appropriations. this financial assistance relates to a disaster in bulgaria, which had to face severe winter conditions and two disasters in greece, flooding in evros and central greece that occurred in early 2015.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that will mobilise the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to grant financial assistance relating to a disaster in bulgaria (severe winter conditions causing a major natural disaster) and two disasters in greece (flooding in evros and central greece) that occurred in early 2015.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting financial assistance through the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to those affected by the disasters in bulgaria and greece earlier this year, as these two countries suffered significant material damage due to weather conditions. i am pleased that more than 600 meps have shown their solidarity with the people affected. the many damages suffered by public infrastructure in these two countries, such as damages to dams and communication and road networks, and in particular major damages in rural regions, such as those suffered by large areas of agricultural land and forest or agricultural infrastructure, such as warehouses and silos, will be much easier to repair.
in writing. ‒ the union solidarity fund enables us to support member states whose populations are facing disasters at local and regional level. unfortunately, both bulgaria and greece had to submit applications to mobilise this fund due to the harsh winter conditions in bulgaria and the floods in greece. earlier this year, large areas of bulgaria were affected by heavy rain, snow, flooding and landslides, with the south-east region being the most affected. in the case of greece, widespread flooding in the regions of eastern macedonia and thrace has caused damage to essential infrastructure and public buildings and destroyed agricultural infrastructure, storage and crops. water supply and sewerage infrastructure in 17 localities were affected. i voted in favour of granting this financial assistance. the nature and scale of the disasters have had a profound impact on local communities and economies and i am pleased that we have a tool to show solidarity across the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted on the report on the mobilisation of over eur 16 million from the eu solidarity fund in the event of disasters in bulgaria and greece in 2015. the european commission proposed to mobilise the fund to provide financial assistance to bulgaria, which was affected by a major natural disaster caused by winter conditions at the end of january. the same applies to greece, where the floods at the beginning of the year in evros and the central region of that country were classified as 'regional disasters'. the objective of the eu solidarity fund is to enable the union to respond quickly, efficiently and flexibly to emergency situations and to express solidarity with the population of regions affected by disasters.
in writing. ‒ the geographical indication serves to identify a product originating in a country, region or locality, where a quality, reputation or other characteristic of the product is linked to its geographical origin. however, non-agricultural products do not currently benefit from unitary geographical indication protection at eu level, beyond national provisions. at present, there are no rules at european level to protect the names of these industrial and craft products. in view of this, 15 member states have so far established mechanisms for the protection of geographical indications for non-agricultural products. but this protection is reduced, as geographical indications (gi) are protected either by the establishment of the offence of fraud, by trademark law or by specific gi provisions. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on the possibility of extending the protection of european union geographical indications to non-agricultural products, as there is an urgent need to create a single system of protection of geographical indications throughout the european union, these products being part of the cultural, social and economic heritage of a given place and being evidence of the breadth of european know-how and cultural heritage, representing a history that benefits from specific knowledge of certain european areas.
in writing. ‒ given that geographical indications have a huge economic potential and that their adequate protection can bring important benefits, in particular to smes and european regions, i believe that such protection promotes and facilitates access to the common market, but also to markets outside the union, for european handicraft products, which are the fruit of traditional knowledge and skills, which contribute to the preservation of valuable know-how, characteristic of entire social and local communities, and which also represent a significant component of the european historical, cultural, economic and social heritage.
in writing. ‒ i believe it is very important for the commission to come up with a proposal for a unified system of geographical indication protection of non-agricultural products, proposing a system which would permit co-existence of already established rights but with the possibility of european-wide registration and uniform protection and guarantees. this system of protection by geographical indications would have very positive effects on traditional arts and crafts and would solve problems arising from the current fragmentation of legal protection. i strongly support the adoption of this report in this plenary session. creation of a system of protection of non-agricultural products is very much needed in this sector.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to put pressure on the european commission to come up with a proposal for a unified system of protection of geographical indications for non-agricultural products, based on the one already existing for agricultural products. the report proposes a system that would allow the co-existence of already established rights and offers the possibility of european registration and uniform protection and guarantees. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that will enable a eu geographical indication (gi) protection instrument at european level, as part of a broader strategy for promoting high-quality eu products, based on a stronger commitment from the eu institutions to treat manufacturing and craft industries as a driving force for growth and the completion of the single market, thus enhancing the prestige of locally based manufacturing and handicraft production, supporting local economic development and employment in the areas concerned, boosting tourism, and strengthening consumer confidence.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because european consumers are increasingly interested in product safety, the origin of products, their authenticity and their production methods, and not just in agricultural products. i believe that the measure to give european citizens the right and the possibility to be able to identify the origin and quality of any product is justified. as we are facing important trade negotiations with the united states of america and the national laws in force protecting non-agricultural products establish different levels of protection in the member states, i believe that it is indispensable to create a single system of protection throughout the european union. the protection of geographical indications of non-agricultural products is important for consumers, but at the same time it can contribute to the preservation of europe's local and regional traditions, values which are part of the european cultural and artistic heritage.
in writing. ‒ i am convinced that the application of geographical indications of origin should be extended to non-agricultural products, since these too contribute to enhancing the attractiveness of a region, to preserving the uniqueness of local identities and thus to having a positive impact on tourism, culture, employment and trade. it is very important that the commission takes account of the needs of producers when developing the rules, by not imposing excessive bureaucratic requirements and by keeping the costs of the procedure low. this is also important because we are basically talking about small producers, small entrepreneurs, who - mainly in the new member states of the european union - have to bear a significant administrative cost of a few hundred euros. i would like to emphasise that the text is very correct in referring to the 'language of the place of origin' in relation to the brand/logo, since it is the language of the community in the region, and thus the traditional name of the product may be the dominant one, rather than the official language of the member state.
in writing. ‒ the outstanding quality and reputation of products from traditional regions of the european union are reflected in what we call geographical indications of these products. the know-how and traditional techniques applied during their manufacture are part of the cultural heritage of the european union. through the existence of geographical indications, traditional high-quality agricultural products from european member states have contributed to the overall attractiveness of their regions. at the same time, these products have been shown to maintain local identities and promote the diversity of places, with a complete economic impact and immeasurable benefits for the tourism sector, culture, employment and trade. i voted in favour of this report, which calls on the commission to come forward with a proposal for a single, harmonised system of protection of geographical indications for non-agricultural products on the basis of the existing system for agricultural products. i hope that in this way we can encourage entrepreneurship at local and regional level and help to promote activities directly linked to local realities. geographical indications for non-agricultural products have a huge economic potential and their adequate protection can bring important benefits to smes and european regions.
in writing. ‒ within the european union there are many non-agricultural products that come from the traditions of each member state and have become an important part of their local and regional culture. the reputation and authenticity of these products make them highly sought after and, in this respect, they can be subject to counterfeiting, which can be detrimental to consumers and producers. there is a need to develop a single system of protection of geographical indications at european level, as different levels of protection exist in the member states, which is a problem for their effective protection. a strategy is needed at european level to promote these high-quality products. this can lead to an increase in the prestige of manufactured and craft products in europe's regions and thus to stimulate the local economy by creating new jobs in these sectors, encouraging tourism and increasing consumer confidence. this strategy can promote the development of small enterprises, which produce about 80% of traditional local products, through more efficient sales methods and closer cooperation within this unitary system at european level. i therefore voted in favour of the report on the possibility of extending the protection of eu geographical indications to non-agricultural products.
in writing. ‒ following the financial crisis, greece faced a lack of liquidity and insufficient public funds for the investments needed to support a sustainable recovery. in this context, the amendment to this regulation provides for additional pre-financing for operational programmes financed for the period 2014-2020 under the cohesion policies, with the main objective 'investments for growth and jobs' and for programmes under the european maritime and fisheries fund. i voted in favour of the amendment to the regulation on the common provisions on the european structural and investment funds for greece, as i believe that the proposed measures are aimed at countering the lack of liquidity in the greek economy and at boosting investment immediately, which are absolutely necessary and allow a rapid launch of a greater number of projects.
in writing. ‒ as greece is facing unprecedented pressure from the wave of migrants at its borders, i believe these measures are a strong message of european solidarity and i appreciate that the commission will provide greece with almost €450 million in support to respond to the challenges of migration and security.
in writing. ‒ considering the fact that greece has been very much affected by the consequences of the financial and economic crisis, faces a critical lack of public funds and consequently is in difficulties to co-finance the investments of european structural and investment funds, i support the proposal to provide additional pre-financing in the current financial period, as well as to increase the co-financing rate to 100% for 2007-2013 operational programmes. in view of the urgency of the support needed in greece, i welcome the agreement within the political groups on the necessity of the introduction of a simplified procedure, as well. greece is a part of the european architecture, and it has to stay this way.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that will provide additional pre-financing for 2014-2020 cohesion policy operational programmes under the investment for growth and jobs goal in greece.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the economic and social situation in greece is very specific, delicate and, above all, urgent. the lack of liquidity of the government of athens seriously affects the implementation of the various projects started during the 2007-2013 budgetary period and jeopardises the financing of any projects for the period 2014-2020. under these conditions, offering a 100% eu pre-financing and co-financing derogation, these initiatives will help complete projects and start new ones, while unlocking around eur 2 billion from greece's national budget. i believe that only through this kind of complementary and specific measures can we help greece to overcome this crisis, ensuring, through the measures proposed in this report, that european funds, but also the greek budget, are used correctly and efficiently.
in writing. ‒ the situation in greece is exceptional in terms of the effects of the financial crisis in that country. the lack of liquidity and public funds has considerably slowed down the implementation of the sustainable economic recovery measures. once again, i voted in favour of these exceptional measures to provide immediate support to greece in the form of access to the european union's available cohesion funds for the period 2007-2013. greece may access and use until the end of 2015 these liquidity, which is so necessary for the functioning of current investment programmes such as the european regional development fund, the european social fund (esf), the cohesion fund and the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff). this vote is one of solidarity, and the european parliament is taking responsibility and responding by a proportionate measure to the urgent liquidity shortage in greece.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report on the common provisions on the european structural and investment funds, which contains specific measures for greece. the commission has proposed for greece to amend the structural funds allocation regulation to provide for additional pre-financing for operational programmes financed in the period 2014-2020 under the cohesion policy under the investment for growth and jobs goal and for programmes supported by the european maritime and fisheries fund in greece. a further provision is to allow the ceiling for the total cumulated amount of pre-financing and interim payments to be 100% and to increase the co-financing rate to 100% for the 2007-2013 operational programmes aimed at achieving the objectives of convergence, regional competitiveness and employment in greece. i believe that the exceptional situation in greece requires exceptional measures, and it is essential that the lack of liquidity and public funds in this country does not hinder investments made under programmes supported by the european regional development fund, the european social fund (esf), the cohesion fund and the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff).
in writing. ‒ the effects of the economic crisis are still being felt in car production, so in western europe car sales have fallen dramatically to their lowest level in 20 years. the small and medium-sized vehicle manufacturers in the mid-priced segment were particularly badly affected, adam opel ag being one of them. overproduction caused by a sharp decline in car sales as a result of the financial and economic crisis forced adam opel ag to adjust its production capacities in europe to match demand. this led to massive redundancies and subsequently to the complete closure of the bochum production plant, one of the five production facilities of adam opel ag. this led to the dismissal of 2 881 workers. these redundancies can have a significant negative impact on the local economy in bochum, given that the unemployment rate in the ruhr area, where bochum is located, is already well above the national average. in this context, the eu financial assistance of eur 6 958 623 is a real support for the reintegration of workers into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ in february 2015, germany submitted an application to obtain a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) due to redundancies in the company adam opel ag. considering that the conditions for mobilizing the egf are met, i supported the mobilization of € 6 598 623 paid to workers affected by the crisis to help them in their professional reintegration in germany.
in writing. ‒ this report gives the green light for the mobilisation of the european globalization adjustment fund (egaf) in germany. the european globalisation adjustment fund was set in 2006 to express solidarity with european workers. it is mean to reintegrate into the labour market the workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that will mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to support the reintegration in the labour market of workers made redundant in adam opel ag, germany.
in writing. ‒ the effects of the economic and financial crisis that began in 2008 are still being felt across the european union. the machinery sector was among the most affected. in the states of western europe, car sales fell dramatically, reaching their lowest level in 20 years. the small and medium-sized vehicle manufacturers in the mid-priced segment were particularly badly affected, especially the branches with parent companies facing economic difficulties of a structural nature. this includes adam opel ag, which had to lay off 2 881 people in germany. i am pleased that we have this rapid assistance tool that can provide support to workers affected by this unfortunate situation. unfortunately, workers are directly exposed to international trade practices or business cycles. the european globalisation adjustment fund can provide financial support for a range of measures for reintegration into the labour market, retraining and transfer to other enterprises that can take on new jobs.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by major structural changes in world trade practices. i voted for the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund at the request of opel - germany. the commission adopted a proposal for a decision to mobilise the egf in favour of germany in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant in the adam opel ag plant. in practice, over eur 6.9 million will be mobilised from the egf for germany to reintegrate 2 692 of the 2 881 workers made redundant by adam opel and one of its suppliers into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ the decline in car production caused by major structural changes in world trade as a result of globalisation led, among other things, to the permanent closure of the ford genk plant. 5 111 workers were made redundant at the ford plant in genk, which is a loss for the province of limburg, given that the ford plant was the most important employer in that province. the european commission's decision to allocate eur 6 268 564 to 4 500 redundant workers to support their reintegration into the labour market is a real support. i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for the ford plant in genk, as it is an important source of funding for a new career start but also an opportunity to improve the employability of all workers.
in writing. ‒ in march 2015, belgium submitted a request for financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) following 5 111 redundancies at ford genk, of which 3 701 workers were made redundant in ford genk and 1 180 in 11 suppliers and downstream producers. those events are directly linked to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. i therefore supported the mobilisation of the egf of up to eur 6 268 564 to help workers who have lost their jobs.
in writing. ‒ this report gives the green light for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egaf) in belgium. the european globalisation adjustment fund was set in 2006 to express solidarity with european workers. it is mean to reintegrate into the labour market the workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that will mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to support the reintegration in the labour market of workers made redundant in ford genk, belgium.
in writing. ‒ like adam opel in germany, ford genk turned to the european globalisation adjustment fund to counter the effects of the economic crisis in the car industry. ford genk was once the largest employer in the province of limburg, but the waves of layoffs have brought the total number of jobs lost to 8 000. 8 000 people aged between 30 and 54 will now be able to benefit from financial assistance through the european globalisation adjustment fund. i voted in favour of this measure in the hope that 8,000 jobs will be transferred to the region through re-skilling and re-employment programmes.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund provides support for people who lose their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade due to globalisation or the economic and financial crisis. the maximum annual budget of the fund for the period 2014-2020 shall be eur 150 million. the funds are allocated to projects designed to help redundant people find a new job or start their own business. on 24 march 2015, belgium submitted an application for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) following redundancies and closures at the ford plant in genk and at 11 downstream suppliers and manufacturers. the request concerns 4 500 of the 5 111 workers made redundant and concerns the request for financial assistance for the implementation of a number of measures to support the redundant workers. the european parliament report finds that all the criteria for the award of a financial contribution from the egf have been met and approves the commission's decision to award an amount of eur 6 268 564 following the application submitted by belgium. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by major structural changes in world trade practices. i voted in favour of mobilising over eur 6.2 million from the egf for belgium to reintegrate into the labour market 4 500 of the 5 111 workers made redundant by the ford plant in genk and by 11 other suppliers and downstream manufacturers. according to the belgian authorities, the redundancies at ford genk are the result of the permanent closure of the plant as a result of major structural changes in the structure of world trade as a consequence of globalisation.
in writing. ‒ one of the sectors affected by the crisis is air transport. the international air transport market has suffered serious economic disruption, especially with regard to a decline in the european union market share and a huge increase in the number of passengers carried by turkish and gulf airlines. all this has been to the detriment of european companies such as alitalia. in these circumstances, the labour market was affected, leading to an increase in unemployment in the lazio region, where alitalia is located. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of passengers and the number of flights. with a view to economic recovery, the european globalisation adjustment fund is an effective instrument providing additional support to workers affected by major structural changes in world trade practices. the amount of eur 1 414 848 granted by the eu in the case of the 184 workers concerned made redundant by alitalia constitutes considerable financial aid. in this context, i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for alitalia, as i support the reintegration of workers and, consequently, economic growth in that area.
in writing. ‒ in march 2015, italy submitted an application to obtain a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund following the dismissals occurred to alitalia group in italy. as a consequence of the economic crisis, the international air transport market experienced indeed a decrease in the share of the eu market. considering that the conditions laid down by the egf regulation are fulfilled, i supported the mobilisation of the egf of up to eur 1 414 848 to assist italian workers, victims of the economic crisis and of austerity measures.
in writing. ‒ this report gives the green light for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egaf) in italy. the european globalisation adjustment fund was set in 2006 to express solidarity with european workers. it is mean to reintegrate into the labour market the workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that will mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to support the reintegration in the labour market of workers made redundant in gruppo alitalia, italy.
in writing. ‒ although the decline in car sales and the mass layoffs of car manufacturing plants have been in the public eye and in our own, the members of the european parliament's, eyes, the international air transport market has not been able to avoid the disastrous economic effects of the 2008 crisis. turkish and gulf airlines have taken on very large numbers of passengers, causing european companies to worry about a decline in their market share in the eu. alitalia is one of these companies and has requested financial assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund for the reintegration of the 1 249 workers recently made redundant. although i supported this measure, i regret that it will apply to a small number of workers, amounting to 14.7% of the total. the measures are aimed at redundant workers over 50 years of age who traditionally have had difficulty finding a new job. the package of personalised services has been developed together with the social partners and the accredited professional agencies, which can only contribute to the efficiency in the application of the measures.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by major structural changes in world trade practices. i voted in favour of mobilising over eur 1.4 million from the egf to help reintegrate 184 of the 1 249 workers made redundant from gruppo alitalia into the labour market. according to the italian authorities, the event underlying these redundancies at the alitalia group is the fall in the number of passengers carried in 2014 to the 2010 figures, which represents a decrease of 3,6% compared to 2013 and 6,4% compared to 2012, combined with the accumulated losses since the complete privatisation of alitalia in 2009.
in writing. ‒ local authorities play a fundamental role in defining, organising and delivering development objectives, providing a strong bridge between community and national and global objectives, while playing a crucial role in protecting vulnerable populations in fragile crisis states and middle-income countries. in this context, it should be noted that the establishment of partnership agreements between local authorities in the member states of the european union and local authorities in developing countries could be beneficial, especially in areas such as training and human capacity, in order to benefit as much as possible from them. i voted in favour of the report on the role of local authorities in development cooperation in developing countries because it highlights the key role of local authorities in developing countries and, in particular, gives a clearer definition of the development agenda in the process for the period after 2015.
in writing. ‒ in the field of development cooperation, the european union's main objective is to combat poverty. it is not only a moral obligation but also a contribution to building a more stable, prosperous and equitable world. under the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the eu ensures coherence between its various policies and actions and takes account of development cooperation in implementing policies that may affect developing countries. in this regard, i believe that strengthening the role of local authorities in development cooperation in these countries will enable the tasks undertaken by the european parliament in its resolution of 13 june 2013 on the millennium development goals to be fulfilled. the eu can support this process by effectively participating in the development planning, implementation and financial aid flows to local authorities in these countries. i therefore support the adoption of the report on the role of local authorities in developing countries in development cooperation.
in writing. ‒ since poverty reduction is inequitable and inequalities between and within countries have deepened in both developed and developing countries, i believe that in the field of development there is a need to ensure a more equitable transfer of financial resources from the national to the sub-regional, city or local level.
in writing. ‒ local authorities will play an essential role in achieving the post-2015 sustainable development goals that have just been adopted in new york and that shape the new global development agenda for the next fifteen years. moreover they play a crucial role in safeguarding vulnerable populations in fragile crisis conditions. i strongly support partnership programs with local authorities with a view of ensuring that they are the main actors who implement the new agenda at the level that is closest to citizens. acknowledgement of their role as state stakeholders represents a major step forward for the eu’s new development agenda. however these new guidelines must be translated into effective implementation, both in terms of the 11th european development fund and in terms of the development cooperation instrument. i welcome the establishment of a partnership at the eu level with local authorities and i encourage the establishment of partnership arrangements between local authorities in eu member states and local authorities in developing countries in areas such as training and human capacity. promoting decentralised cooperation is a way of implementing the post- 2015 development framework and should become a priority funding sector for our external aid financing instruments.
in writing. ‒ local authorities will have an essential role to play in achieving the post-2015 objectives. the report underlines that the new guidelines set out in the commission´s communication on local authorities represent a major step forward for the eu´s new development agenda.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that will improve the role of local authorities in the implementation of the millennium development goals that represent a crucial role in the fight against poverty and in the delivery of community services, such as water and sanitation, primary healthcare and education.
in writing. ‒ be it in developed or developing countries, it can be witnessed that decentralised governance is the most efficient way of public administration: being closer to citizens, local authorities have better knowledge of the local cultures and local needs and can more efficiently deal with problems at source. this has to be recognized in our development policy as well: the eu should promote the political, administrative and financial autonomy of local authorities in partner countries and thus work in favour of democratically legitimate, accountable and representative forms of governance. of course, decentralisation alone is not a quick fix to every problem a society faces but, if it is appropriately implemented, it can strongly contribute to human development.
in writing. ‒ the role of local authorities is undoubtedly to represent the state institutionally at local government level. local authorities thus contribute to the creation of democracy at the core of society and to sustainable territorial development based on the active participation of the local population in political decisions. the definition, organisation and achievement of development objectives are part of the state's portfolio of activities in the territory. and while the fundamental role of local government is most evident in developed countries, it becomes fundamental in developing countries with unstable governance and vulnerable populations. i voted in favour of political dialogue through this report. the new global sustainable development framework must provide opportunities for civil society, local authorities and national parliaments to get involved. more autonomy for local authorities will mean much fairer, more transparent and more accountable governance. the objectives and challenges of the post-2015 global development agenda require strong partnerships with civil society, and their success will depend exclusively on action at the local level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the role of local authorities in developing countries in development cooperation. it is well known that local authorities are key actors in the creation of democracy at local level and sustainable territorial development, playing a fundamental role in ensuring transparent, fair and accountable governance. local authorities, being the level closest to citizens, will play a crucial role in achieving the goals and challenges of the post-2015 global development agenda, which is based on people, human rights and the rule of law. the report highlights the crucial role of these authorities in developing countries and encourages the development of partnerships between local authorities in the eu and those in developing countries in multiple areas. this can foster the emergence of democracy and the prevention and resolution of conflicts, which are the main obstacles to the development of many countries. to this end, the european union has a budget of €1.7 billion until 2020 to support decentralisation reforms and local initiatives, and to strengthen the competences of these authorities. these resources must deliver concrete results in strengthening the role of local authorities and in implementing development cooperation.
madam president, commissioner bieńkowska, unfortunately the problem of measuring the level of emissions in the car sector raises an undeserved question mark for the european car industry as a whole. we call on the commission to launch immediately a comprehensive eu-wide investigation programme to identify the tampering devices used on vehicles sold in europe, regardless of the brand or fuel used. also, to ensure the smooth functioning of the vehicle testing system in the future, we are establishing an independent type approval authority to oversee testing and ensure that new diesel cars on the road in europe meet the conditions set in 2007. i would like to ask the commission what measures are being considered with the companies concerned to compensate or compensate those consumers in good faith who have purchased these so-called clean cars. also, what will be the penalties to be applied to the producers and the measures to implement them, given that the provisions of regulation (ec) no 715/2007 have been infringed. those penalties provided for shall be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. if any director within the commission has also intended to take responsibility for this failure we have seen in europe, and if these things have happened, you would do well, commissioner, to make them public.
blue-card question. – mr faria, you mentioned that we have to take immediate action because we, as the european union, were investing a huge amount of money in technological development for a low carbon footprint, but we were not improving or harmonising our emissions testing. do you not think that one step europe must take is to standardise emissions testing at the level of the 28 member states?
in writing. the crisis created by the volkswagen case in europe has long-term effects, many of which have already been mentioned. i want to highlight a few. it is clear that the effects were manifested on the citizens, because of the pollution, by the putting into circulation of millions of cars, on the buyers who were deceived, but also on the workers and on the smes who worked as suppliers and sub-suppliers for this company. i am surprised by the german chancellor's statement, which stated that germany will overcome this problem! but the problem was created not only for germany, but also for europe. commissioner, you need to establish unitary measures to eliminate the cause, not let each state handle it. we need to have a unified system of approval, testing and control. you have to determine who pays and how they pay for the damage done to consumers and not let the states impoverish national budgets by paying damages. i'm convinced that because the flaw was discovered by the us, it will influence the ttip negotiation. the u.s. will seek to use this case to its advantage when we negotiate harmonization of standards. national, local and central authorities treat large brands and smes differently in terms of control.
on behalf of the s&d group.– mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for the information just provided to the house because it is very important to see that libya was one of the major topics on the un general assembly agenda. on the situation in libya, we must once more repeat ourselves. we have said it many times in this house, deadline after deadline: no more time can be lost. but unfortunately every single time the end of the tunnel seems to be reachable the final agreement on the unity government does not see the light. this is not a joke. this cannot be a matter of personal interests: it is about the fate of an entire country, the fate of an entire people, and practically the fate of an entire region. the future and the stability of the entire region are somehow connected to how things will evolve in libya. daesh does not lose time, it does not wait, it grows and spreads where it finds fertile soil and from there it tries to destabilise the region. the eu and the whole international community cannot afford a failed state in libya, but more importantly those who really care about libya and about the libyans cannot afford once again a failure of the peace plan. libya is today in the hands of the libyan people and their leaders. violence and the aggravating humanitarian crisis must come to an end. as the high representative has said so many times, the eu stands ready – and the commissioner has just mentioned how europe can help any national unity government in libya. in this regard, it is important to find an agreement that brings all sides together, but let us be realistic: no agreement can be perfect for all sides. everybody must give something up. this is about compromises. once again there is on the table a peace plan brokered by the un special representative, and there is now a new deadline. this must be the very last one. should that not be the case, the libyan people will be the ones who will have to pay the price if the agreement fails. and one final word about what europe can do: let us not forget that europe should do something on two fronts, namely by considering sanctions against those who do not sign the agreement and equally against those who promote the proxy wars.
mr president, as we all know, the civil war in libya has been going on for four years. it has completely ruined the country and destroyed all the institutions as they were under the old regime. it is now a complete chaos, which is a danger to regional stability but also, of course, to the stability of the european union. as you can see, libya is the hub of all trafficking, of illegal immigration, including, of course, to our countries. added to this is the terrorist threat with the establishment of daesh in that country. we have been able to measure the consequences in the neighbouring country, tunisia, where the terrorist attacks were actually committed by people who came from libyan terrorist networks. i would like to commend the efforts made by the union to put an end to the crisis. we have supported the peace negotiations conducted under the auspices of the united nations. we now have operation sophia, but this operation can only be successful when libya has a government of national unity, a stable government that can be a partner of the union. the latest text negotiated by the un special envoy, bernardino león, is a kind of last chance agreement. three attempts to sign a political agreement have failed. a new deadline was set for 20 october. i believe that extending the mandate of the libyan parliament beyond 20 october would not be an encouraging sign at all. that is why we must keep our hopes up and continue to believe in this agreement, in this compromise. then, i am sure, the time will come for the union to work to support the democratic process.
no, mr president, i do not want to discuss with the national front.
mr president, four years after taking to the streets for dignity, freedom and democracy, libyans find themselves in a country characterised by political division and violence. the crisis has heavily affected the population, with civilian suffering, casualties, mass displacement and a spreading humanitarian crisis. today it is high time for an act of courage and responsibility by all parties. the latest un-brokered efforts represent a last chance. the negotiated text constitutes a fair, inclusive and sustainable solution for the country. now it is up to the parties to demonstrate their real and genuine commitment to a new democratic libya which is able to provide the peace, security and prosperity all libyans ask for and deserve. the european union has always stood ready to provide the necessary support but it is up to the negotiating parties alone to seize this last opportunity for peace.
mr president, four years after the toppling of gaddafi, libya suffers from an increasingly devastating political, economic, security and humanitarian crisis. i share the view that these problems would be best dealt with through a power-sharing agreement between the two factions in the country and the swift formation of a government of national accord. this would also make it possible for eunavfor med – in phase ii from tomorrow – to be more effective in stopping people smugglers in international and libyan waters. as long as there is not a functioning unified libyan state, people smugglers, warlords and terrorist groups will continue to profit from the chaos that has engulfed the country, leaving millions in misery and forcing thousands more to flee.
mr president, i believe that it is time to take a crucial step towards building a democratic civil state through national consensus in libya and addressing the needs and aspirations of the libyan people. the entire region is facing increasing destabilisation and terrorism. the eu must work with the international community to bring the conflicts to an end and to restore peace and security. effective multilateralism in the past has shown that international crises can be resolved if all sides demonstrate that they are willing to restore political dialogue, to cooperate with other international actors and to implement effectively the agreements signed. moreover, restoring a safe situation in libya will help to reduce the number of migrants arriving in europe and the pressure on our external borders. in order to allow migrants to remain in their home countries, libya needs stability, and the democratic rights of the libyan people must be ensured.
mr president, the abolition of the death penalty in all countries of the world is one of the main objectives of the european union's human rights policy. the death penalty is clearly incompatible with humanity and human dignity, and studies and research have shown that it does not deter violent crime. the european union is the largest donor of funds to the efforts of civil society organisations worldwide to abolish the death penalty. we are the first to adopt rules that prohibit trade in goods used for capital punishment, as well as torture and ill-treatment, and the provision of technical assistance related to such goods used in this abhorrent practice. we, the european union, have a duty to encourage consistent and constructive dialogue, to raise public awareness through education and information campaigns, to persuade countries that use the death penalty to abolish it or at least to introduce a moratorium as a first step in this direction.
mr president, i am very concerned by the fact that, in opposition to the general trend of recent decades, an increasing number of countries have enacted laws permitting the death penalty for drug-related offences. i therefore strongly support the call on the commission to mainstream the campaign to abolish the death penalty in new foreign policy and external relations, and to have talks with third countries that are responsible for a significant rise in the number of executions or for restarting executions. the death penalty is the ultimate cruel, inhumane and degrading punishment, which violates the right to life as enshrined in the universal declaration of human rights, and an act of torture unacceptable to states respecting human rights. we need to stick to our strong position against the death penalty, establishing a universal moratorium with a view to the global abolition of capital punishment as a key objective of the union’s human rights policy.
member of the commission.– mr president, every day citizens and businesses conclude cross-border transactions or enter into cross-border civil-legal relations benefiting from the european single market. but things may go wrong. products may be faulty or services may not be delivered. in such situations people need to be able to assert and enforce their rights. the european small claims procedure offers a uniform procedure to enforce rights in a cheaper and faster way. the current system has been operational for five years. we have assessed it and identified its shortcomings. now is the time for improvement. i would like to thank ms geringer de oedenberg, the rapporteur, as well as all the shadow rapporteurs for their cooperation on this dossier. it was not easy to come to a meaningful compromise so speedily. the commission’s objective was to modernise the small claims procedure. we proposed extending its application to claims of up to eur 10 000, paying close attention in particular to the needs of small and medium-sized enterprises. the final compromise sets the limit at eur 5 000. currently it is only eur 2 000, so this is a significant improvement. i know that some of you would have welcomed it if employees’ claims could have been included in the scope of the regulation. we agreed that we would come back to this issue in the future after having analysed the practical needs in this respect. the overarching priority for the commission in these negotiations has been to improve effective access to justice for more eu citizens. the level of court fees plays a key role in this regard. citizens must not be discouraged from effectively enforcing their rights. the prohibition of disproportionate court fees, which is included in the compromise text, is a step forward. we will monitor its implementation and application in the interest of citizens. more generally, the commission will support the practical application of the revised regulation through awareness raising and the wide dissemination of information.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank first of all the rapporteur, mrs geringer de oedenberg, for her good cooperation, commissioner jourová for her excellent cooperation, and all the colleagues involved in the preparation of this report. a european justice system needs a single european legal area, and an efficient justice system needs simplified procedures. eu citizens will benefit from a simplified procedure for the settlement of crossborder disputes up to eur 5 000. national barriers will no longer be an obstacle in judicial matters for natural persons and in particular for smes. electronic means of communication and distance payment will become effective tools at the disposal of stakeholders, and the definition of cross-border cases has been extended and substantially clarified. the court's fees should be set at a reasonable amount and proportionate to the value of the application, so as not to become prohibitive for citizens. good faith in the execution of civil and commercial contracts will be more vigorously protected and the legal security of the commercial circuit will be guaranteed. it is therefore important to ensure a level playing field for both the creditor and the debtor throughout the european union as a consequence of belonging to the same legal area. however, member states are obliged to implement this regulation by making this procedure a reality at national level. i regret that it has not been possible to extend the scope of this regulation to labour law so that european citizens who have performed an activity under an individual employment contract have the possibility to use this simplified instrument to recover their wage rights from bad employers. we would certainly have had to deal with both a reduction in black-market work and a considerable reduction in tax evasion. i am convinced, however, that in the near and reasonable future both the commission and the council, together with parliament, will find an effective solution to this.
first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the document she has presented today. this report is an important step towards improving the european small claims procedure and establishing a common order for payment procedure. the increase in the threshold to eur 5 000 is really in the interest of small and medium-sized enterprises, which are currently discouraged from taking legal action when they have cross-border claims. if the current limit of eur 2 000 covers only 20% of applications by businesses, the new threshold raises this to almost 40%. improved access to this procedure would thus enhance confidence in cross-border transactions and help to fully exploit the opportunities offered by the internal market. they also fully support the recommendation to introduce modern technological or online systems to improve access to this european procedure. whether it is the claim procedure or the conduct of judicial proceedings, new technologies can allow for greater transparency and better access to european judicial mechanisms. the report also proposes three other important elements that i should mention and which lead me to support this report: reducing the costs of the procedure, free assistance and guidance, including by online means, and the calibration of the court fee, which allows for wider access to these european judicial mechanisms and an additional facilitation for european citizens and smes.
madam president, despite the strong progress in tackling air pollutants such as sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and dust in the european union, air quality still falls short in many areas of the norms set by the eu, the un, and the world health organisation. as a consequence, harmful air pollutants continue to cause serious problems to our health, our quality of life and our environment. the damage is also financially costly: the impact of air pollution on health alone amounts to hundreds of billions of euros each year in the european union. that is why i am glad that, with the adoption of this piece of legislation, we can fill the gap left between the eco-design directive and the industrial emissions directive, while avoiding double regulation. however, considering that about 75% of medium combustion plants are run by smes, it is also important not to impose a too high administrative and financial burden on such companies. therefore i think that the gradual adoption of rules – depending on the size of the plants – strikes a good balance between affordability and environmental protection. last but not least, i also welcome the flexible compliance deadlines for existing district heating systems, biomass plants and plants that are part of small, isolated systems.
in writing.– as we know air pollution causes lung diseases and cancer, as well as heart diseases and strokes. according to the who and the european commission ambient air pollution is responsible for 400 000 premature deaths in europe in 2010 and 2012, with lung cancer being the leading cause of respiratory death. air pollution has damaging impacts on the environment, impacting the quality of the water and soil, causing animal and plant life loss. it damages also the materials and buildings, having also a strong impact on the climate itself. we can admit that in europe we have a clearer air than 2 decades ago, but we still have to work to improve the quality of the air we breathe. it is our role to ask for compliance with existing air quality rules in the member states and require maintaining tough emission limit values. we have to support the compromise package and therefor contribute to a thorough eu climate policy.
mr president, i think that the russian military intervention is very bad news because it further weakens the situation at a time when we are extremely concerned about the source of this wave of migration into europe. the main source, of course, is syria. the russian intervention has a very clear objective, which is to support assad. that is the fundamental objective. this military intervention, under these conditions, is clearly only producing more refugees. i consider that, politically, this intervention by russia is a complication of the crisis and a gesture directed against europe, in a very clear way. i think we should have no illusions, this is not the first time that russia has acted alone and that is why some consider that ukraine and syria should be put on the same level, because russia acts without consulting with other international actors. before this intervention, we had discussed the possibility of significant diplomatic advances, but they were cut off and russia moved militarily. so what we can do now, in my view, is to redouble our diplomatic efforts. on the other hand, i am very concerned to note that this military intervention has already violated the airspace of turkey, which is a member of nato. so what is at stake now is also the strength of our transatlantic alliance, a decisive element in this conflict. when i see my colleagues here, who defend putin's pacifism, i feel as if they live in moscow and not in europe. i'm really sorry to see this. i think it is absolutely necessary to work in the diplomatic direction, but in no way to support this military intervention by russia.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure. mr president, you spoke in your speech about the fact that the european union should step up its military cooperation with israel and i did not hear a word about diplomacy and negotiation. you think it's important who kills? is it not more important that the european union strengthen its cooperation with all states through negotiation and diplomacy rather than military?
the question is "blue cardboard". mrs arnautu, do you not think that russia's intervention has complicated things in syria? at the same time, this war has not brought peace or a solution to the situation in that country. do you not think that we need an international conference with all the internal, external and regional actors to finally succeed in establishing peace in syria?
mr president, with russia’s direct military intervention in syria, the two major challenges to the eu – ukraine and isil – and the refugee crisis converge. in reality, russia is fighting alongside assad against all its opponents, consolidating his regime and intensifying the refugee exodus while clearing the way on the ground for isil. apart from consolidating its bridgehead and demonstrating a big power status, russia’s intervention is attempting to deflect attention from ukraine, where the implementation of the minsk ii agreement is directly linked to the lifting of sanctions, which they hope to achieve through the current stalemate. however, russia has simultaneously intensified its activism in moldova – not militarily, in view of the firm reaction to what it is doing in ukraine, but by orchestrating a so-called ‘popular protest’ against the pro-european coalition. this so-called ‘popular protest’ is only a prelude to a direct move against the current government, the aim being to replace it with a pro-russian one thus ending moldova’s european aspiration. with ukraine and georgia territorially crippled and with moldova in the balance, what are the prospects for the ... (the president cut off the speaker)
i would like to emphasize that in the context of the debates at the united nations general assembly, syria was one of the first topics, perhaps the most important, but then messages were received from berlin, from paris, from london that did not necessarily agree. there are at least nuances that make a difference and they make a difference, including in relation to the platform proposed by the high representative, mrs mogherini. in this context, i would stress the need for a strategic and pragmatic approach to the role of international actors in resolving the situation in syria, in particular with regard to russia's intentions. while russia declamatoryly claims to support and strengthen the positions of allies, on the other hand, it adopts an agenda that is at least unpredictable with regard to its own goals. in this regard, targeting assad's political opponents, rather than isis, further confirms the doubt about the sincerity of the engagement. a russian pax is not a solution to syria and it is not a solution to the middle east.
madam president, the settlement of the syrian conflict is primarily a matter for the world players, the united states and russia, and the countries of the region. but at the same time, the biggest migration ever is to europe, to its more developed and wealthy western countries. this situation is also frustrating because the eu is apparently unable to make decisions that affect events in syria. and instead of taking each other's views and interests into account, the member states are taking decisions in the council by an unprecedented majority vote on a matter of extraordinary importance. it sends a message to the eastern european states that their opinion doesn't matter. my liberal colleague believes that maintaining the confederation system is also important in order to resolve the minority situation, but this requires two things: to end the war and to set an example within the eu by respecting the rights of minorities.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice—president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy.– madam president, honourable members, firstly i would like to thank you for giving the council the opportunity to exchange views with you on the situation in turkey at this pivotal moment for the country and for the whole region. the middle east is in turmoil, with the crisis in syria – we have just had a lengthy exchange on that – and the presence of daesh in the region and also in iraq. the rest of the region is also facing dramatic challenges, from yemen to libya. the human tragedies in the mediterranean, the threats posed by terrorist groups and the multiple conflicts in our neighbourhood are all issues that we can tackle only in cooperation with our partners. turkey is indeed a strategic partner for europe. we need to work in partnership with turkey if we want to tackle effectively all these crises, and in particular the syrian one. this cooperation is not only possible, it is absolutely necessary. we share so many interests, the most important one being peace and stability in our common region. for this reason, we have started to increase and deepen further our engagement with turkey. the visit of president erdoğan to brussels and his meetings with president tusk and president juncker on monday are a reminder that dialogue with our turkish partners at the highest possible level is in the interests of both sides. the situation in syria and iraq has called for the reinforcement of our cooperation on foreign-policy issues and counter-terrorism. the refugee crisis that we are facing in the region shows very clearly that we share a common challenge when managing this dramatic situation. turkey’s efforts to host more than two million syrian and iraqi refugees deserve not only our approval but also our full support and solidarity. the union is providing financial help; with some eur 176 million committed by the commission for direct aid to refugees. the council’s recent decision to increase the eu’s financial contribution, the commission’s commitments in this respect and the increased contribution of member states should help us in putting our forces together. a couple of weeks ago, the european union’s heads of state and government stressed that there is a pressing need to reinforce our cooperation with turkey on managing these issues. the challenges we face due to the refugee crisis made it necessary to step up significantly our cooperation on migration and border management. this means too that we have to pursue even further our dialogue towards visa liberalisation. we also need to develop further operational cooperation with a view to preventing illegal migratory flows in the aegean and mediterranean and fighting smugglers’ networks which are responsible for the loss of so many lives at our borders. that is why, on the occasion of president erdoğan’s visit on monday, the president of the commission handed over to him a draft action plan for stepping up cooperation between the eu and turkey on support for refugees and migration management. the draft plan, which has been made publicly available on the commission’s website, is now being discussed with the turkish side to reach agreement on the details. however, our challenges go beyond that, and our actions should also look further. a reinforced political dialogue between the eu and turkey, in addition to the accession negotiations, would allow us jointly to address key issues of mutual interest. turkey is an accession country, but it is also a strategic partner for us in the region. we need to make sure that our work with turkey develops strongly and consistently on these two dimensions in parallel. as regards the internal political situation, since we last discussed turkey in this chamber, there has been some relevant news. all major political parties won representation in parliament in the elections of 7 june 2015, but it was not possible to form a new government. we hope that after the new elections on 1 november 2015, whatever the outcome, a new government can be formed swiftly. i believe we are all increasingly concerned by the escalation of violence in turkey and the continuing terrorist attacks. however, measures taken by the government must be proportionate and targeted, and they should not endanger the democratic political dialogue. a ceasefire is particularly urgent. the interim government and all political leaders need to come together to guarantee secure and fair elections. we have to support actively the return to the peace process. in recent years the relaunch of the kurdish peace process has provided turkey with the best opportunity in a generation both to resolve a conflict that has claimed far too many lives and to address the needs of all the citizens of the republic. with no peace process in place, this opportunity is at risk of disappearing and there is a risk that instability will continue or even grow. honourable members have expressed on different occasions their views and concerns on this matter. indeed, as a candidate country negotiating eu membership, turkey needs to strengthen democracy and the rule of law – and i refer here mainly to the independence of the judiciary and the freedom of the press. these are key areas where turkey needs to give proof of its strong commitment to the accession process. we hope to see turkey re-engaging seriously in reforms, and we are ready and willing to support such reforms with all the instruments at our disposal in order to increase their impact. opening chapters 23 and 24 would be in the interests of both turkey and the eu and would act as a catalyst for reform. last but not least, the issue of cyprus: in the last months we have increased consistently the union’s political engagement in this regard, receiving full support from the work done by the un special adviser – whom the high representative, ms mogherini, met last week in new york – and from the strong political will expressed by the leadership involved in the process. what we see is that the conditions are there for reaching a positive solution and that the time has come for all to put an end to this problem, for the benefit of all. the eu and turkey need one another. we face the same regional challenges; we share the same need for peace and stability. we need to work as close as possible together, as we have been doing in these past months. we will not have the same views on everything, but this is a reason to intensify even further our exchanges and to develop common lines of action and common frameworks for our crucial partnership on the regional conflicts on counterterrorism, on refugees, on migration, and also on other key issues such as energy. this is the direction we have taken and i am more than convinced that the european parliament will continue to be a key player, as it has already been over the past years.
on behalf of the epp group. madam president, as mr schmit said earlier, we discussed turkey in parliament three months ago when we adopted the resolution on the progress report on that country, and i said it then and i say it again now: there is a need for deeper dialogue and cooperation with turkey. the current refugee crisis, what has happened, especially in the last few months, shows more than anything the need to work together with our turkish partners to manage the wave of refugees. without turkey we cannot solve this problem, it seems obvious to me. on the other hand, i think that opening new chapters in the negotiations is very important. unfortunately, our group is not united on this, but that is the message we have conveyed, for example, during the visit of the committee on foreign affairs to turkey in the spring. secondly, i want to stress the importance of the elections that will soon be held in turkey. it has been seen that, unfortunately, a compromise could not be reached in ankara, and i would like to convey to our turkish friends that democracy does not mean only a monochrome majority. compromise and negotiation are very important, and i hope that in the future political configuration in turkey we will find a serious partner to talk about migrants, but also, of course, about new chapters in the negotiations.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, the current crisis reaffirms the strategic dimension of relations between the european union and turkey. refugees, syria, energy, our access to the muslim world in general, can be greatly improved if we are aware of the importance of this relationship. i have been a strong advocate of strengthening this strategic relationship between turkey and the european union for many years, but today i am equally worried. turkey is experiencing a political crisis, the result of an economic slowdown, after years of substantial economic progress, but also as a result of president erdogan's systematic effort to transform turkey from a parliamentary democracy into an autocratic presidential regime. but the most dangerous thing today is the violence - violence inside turkey, against the backdrop of terrorist attacks, but also the assault on the kurdish minority - and violence on turkey's borders. and this situation requires responsibility from all leaders, it requires careful action to avoid any escalation of violence or any slippage. president erdogan's recent actions have been rather the opposite. against the backdrop of a nationalist kiss, the turning of the environment and political opinion against the kurds was attempted as an electoral platform. there have been actions against businessmen. brutal actions have been taken against freedom of the press, the opposition. all these elements we hope will be calmed down and have a rational solution after the elections on november 1. having said that, we must emphasise once again the strategic role for the european union - i am speaking first of all for the european union - of relations with turkey, as a long-term partner, a key partner in finding solutions to the two big problems: refugees, the fight against daesh and stability in syria. and we must say one more thing, that the european union and this parliament have a duty to start negotiations, to support the opening of new chapters of negotiations with turkey, to strengthen the strategic dimension of these relations.
the commission has also proposed that the court of justice should be able to give a ruling on the application of the principle of proportionality. madam president, i must admit that to me it was a confusing message. you once said that turkey is a strategic partner, but on the other hand you said that it has nothing to do with turkey's accession process. is he a strategic partner or not? i ask you: how do you see a strategic partner to be if we do not treat it in the accession process as a possible member of the european union?
the question "blue card" to edouard ferrand. mr ferrand, i believe that europe needs turkey and turkey needs europe. i think it is you and your group who have nothing to do with europe, mr ferrand. that's what you should recognize. you have no place here in the european parliament.
madam president, while the eu and turkey are meeting at the highest level and working to find common ground in order to tackle the most pressing foreign policy issues, including syria, daesh and the refugee crisis, there is another turkey which is a cause of concern. the social and political achievements of the last 10 years are under threat. the kurdish question has once again developed into confrontation and a dangerous spiral of violence. pkk terrorist attacks have claimed yet more innocent lives. offices of the peoples’ democratic party have been the object of targeted attacks. the turkish media is under increasing pressure ahead of an important electoral deadline. the first of november represents a unique opportunity to promote a spirit of unity and to demonstrate a real and genuine commitment by the turkish authorities to democracy and the shared values and principles which have always been at the very heart of the accession process for any candidate country. a lot has been achieved in turkey in recent years and i hope this chance will not be missed.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice—president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy.– madam president, i think that, despite all the very real difficulties and the concerns which have been expressed, there is one conclusion we have to draw: we need a genuine enhanced engagement with turkey. we share so many interests, we share so many challenges, and therefore i think we have to continue to engage with this country.
in writing. against the current background of the refugee crisis and the conflict in syria, strengthening the eu-turkey partnership is a key element in successfully managing the fight against terrorism and ensuring security in the area. however, turkey's internal politics and its consequences for democracy and the rule of law in turkey should not be overlooked. the june elections were a victory for turkish democracy with all major political forces represented in parliament, but unfortunately this success was not materialized in a coalition government. i hope that the interim government will ensure a transparent and secure framework for the elections on 1 november and that, whatever the outcome, a government will be formed that expresses the will of the turkish people. while ankara blames european leaders for not taking turkey's eu candidacy seriously by blocking the accession process, i would like to remind that the opening of key chapters 23 and 24 can only be done after the adoption of reforms that ensure fundamental rights and the freedom of the judiciary. i therefore believe that we must strengthen relations with turkey, a strategic partner and candidate country, without neglecting the efforts it must make in this regard.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of parliament’s calendar of part-sessions for 2017.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the new calendar of parliament’s part-sessions for 2017.
in writing. ‒ in recent years, the tunisian economy has deteriorated significantly both internally and externally, but especially in terms of trade with europe, which remains its main partner. however, an eu first step to support the country's fragile transition to democracy could be achieved by focusing on economic aspects and investments that support the country's fragile transition to democracy. in this context, it should be borne in mind that tunisia is the birthplace of the arab spring, the only country in the middle east and north africa (mena) region to have survived this social and political event, and that the success of the transition to democracy depends on future social and economic development. i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of tunisia, of the other part, as tunisia has long-term growth potential and, together with the eu, should leverage existing resources such as human resources and the open economy, in order to contribute to boosting the tunisian economy in a more sustainable and inclusive manner.
in writing. ‒ in the context of tunisia's high long-term growth potential, i believe it is essential that the tunisian issue becomes an eu priority and that the eu engages concretely in economic and investment terms to support the country's fragile transition to democracy, as the success of the tunisian experiment is in the interest of the entire region, but also of the union.
in writing. ‒ the success of tunisia’s transition to democracy will depend on its future economic and social development. tunisia has significant long-term growth potential. the implementation of the expected reforms, combined with existing assets such as its human resources and open economy, will unleash this potential, thereby boosting its economy in a more sustainable and inclusive manner. over recent years, the tunisian economy has deteriorated markedly, both domestically and in the international arena, especially in terms of its trade with europe, which remains its main partner. in light of this, it is vital for the tunisian issue to become an eu priority, with the eu making concrete economic and investment commitments aimed at supporting the country’s fragile transition to democracy, while being mindful of the fact that the success of the tunisian experiment is in the interests of the entire region and the eu. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ tunisia is confronted with an economic crisis after the terrorist attacks at bardo national museum and sousse. we have to make concrete economic and investment commitments in order to support the country’s transition to democracy.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this recommendation on the draft council decision that will enable the eu to make concrete economic and investment commitments aimed at supporting tunisia’s fragile transition to democracy.
in writing. ‒ the arab spring was a historic event of extraordinary magnitude, which changed the evolution of societies in the islamic world of the near east. tunisia was the first country where this mobilization of the population in support of democratization and modernization was manifest. however, the transition from an authoritarian society to a democratic and pluralistic system is a complex and difficult process that cannot be achieved in such a short time. at the same time, the challenges facing tunisia's young democracy are multiplying. economic and social difficulties are exacerbated by the intensification of the phenomenon of islamic fundamentalism and its corollary, the phenomenon of terrorism. the recent terrorist attacks in tunisia demonstrate the vulnerability of the transitioning society to the adversaries of the open society. the european union is tunisia's main neighbour and trading partner. in this respect, the union has an important responsibility for the development of tunisia's young democracy. one of the tools through which the eu can make a real difference is economic cooperation. this requires the adoption of the agreement for tunisia's participation in european programmes. the more we speed up this process, the more tunisian citizens will feel the benefits of the development of democracy in their country and the less the dangers of terrorism and sectarian conflict.
in writing. ‒ since march 1998, there has been a euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european communities and their member states and the republic of tunisia. this agreement aims to develop a strengthened dialogue on political and security matters, economic, financial and trade cooperation, and to promote social, cultural and educational cooperation. the events of recent years in tunisia, in particular the arab spring, have marked the country's passage into a new stage of its development on its way to democracy. however, the increasingly fragile economic situation, in particular due to the deterioration of trade with the eu, tunisia's main trading partner, with 75% of its exports and imports, is hindering its democratic development. in this context, tunisia needs the union's support for better economic development, ensuring a triumph of democracy, to the benefit of both the mena region and the eu. furthermore, at the social level, there is a need to strengthen cooperation in the field of education, training and youth training, which is an important pillar of the democratic revolution in tunisia. i therefore voted in favour of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement on the general principles for the participation of tunisia in union programmes.
mr president, i voted in favour of this regulation. as a former minister of justice of the czech republic, i know how big a problem it is to resolve cross-border disputes. many eu citizens and businesses are afraid to enter into such disputes because they are objectively longer, more costly than purely domestic disputes. it is therefore good that the european union is trying to remove these barriers, so to speak, to judicial cooperation, judicial integration, and is adopting such a regulation, which may lead to the use of videoconferencing in cross-border disputes in the future for the examination of witnesses, to the electronic delivery of individual files to the courts, to the harmonisation of the level of court fees, to the setting of certain limits and thus to the reduction of the costs of the disputes in question. i think this is very important for the future, because non-communicative justice is one of the barriers to the internal market of the european union.
mr president, we have two regulations - one from 2006 and one from 2007 - which regulate shorter procedures, specifically for small claims and those relating to the european summary procedure. all of this is to help people, to help business people, small businesses and medium businesses so that the whole judicial process goes faster. we live and work in different countries in the european union and as such, the legal procedures must be adopted. but now we need to go further and change these regulations, with the following objectives: we need to increase the amount for small payment claims to eur 5 000; furthermore, electronic means of communication, of notification must be used by the courts; also, in certain cases, when possible, the judges should use teleconferencing; the administration of evidence, likewise, should be possible to do remotely and by teleconference; judicial fees should be paid by remote means. all of this will improve life and business.
in writing. ‒ the establishment of the european small claims procedure is an important step forward from the procedures existing under the laws of the member states. i believe this report will simplify and speed-up cross-border small claims litigation in civil and commercial matters and will cut costs. i welcome the inclusion in the report of the point that ensures that the judgement given by the european small claims procedure will be recognised and enforceable in another member state without the need for a declaration of enforceability and without any possibility of opposing its recognition. increasing the threshold to eur 5 000, with a 5-year review clause in order to see whether a further increase is possible, is one of the better aspects of the report as it will make the escp more accessible and therefore more used. finally i find it very positive that court fees will be proportionate to the claim and that assistance for the use of procedure will be free of charge.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that will better regulate the european small claims procedure and raise the threshold for small claims which fall under the european small claims procedure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text as it is indeed needed to speed up cross-border small claims judicial procedures in the eu. a large part of the union economy relies on trans-border commerce and interaction and therefore it is understandable that litigation will occur. for the actors, knowing that in cases of litigation it takes a long time to solve the matter and the cost might vary greatly between member states, this could actually be a deterrent from risking cross-border ventures of various kinds. also, as this affects mostly smes, the backbone of a prosperous economy, finally addressing these issues and creating a regulation across all the eu can be very beneficial.
in writing. ‒ one of the main gains of the consolidation of the european union and the single economic market has been the removal of all obstacles to european free trade. this complex process can involve multiple issues, giving rise to litigation over small amounts. the recovery of those damages may raise additional problems for small producers or smes, which do not have the resources to pursue a transnational litigation. to that end, regulation (ec) no 861/2007 established european procedures for small claims and regulation (ec) no 1896/2006 established a european order for payment procedure. these documents needed a revision in order to streamline procedures, which is done through this document. thus, a limit of eur 5 000 for claims by natural persons and eur 10 000 for legal persons, with the possibility of revision after a period of 5 years, is established; the use of means of distance communication and videoconferencing for judicial hearings is encouraged, as well as the inclusion of labour claims in claims and an adjustment of judicial fees in relation to the amount of damage. all these changes are likely to contribute to making clear progress in this area.
mr president, air pollution remains the main environmental factor causing disease in the european union. we have medium combustion plants that are used to generate electricity, heat and cool in the domestic sector, supply heat for industrial processes and are a major source of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and particulate matter emissions. we have about 150 000 such installations in the european union which are not subject to environmental legislation. the report that we voted on today brings all these procedures up to the standards we have adopted in the european union and puts them in the same category, so as to prevent them from continuing to pollute the air we breathe and, in effect, to reduce the cause of disease for those living in these conditions. the commission should also assess, by 31 december 2016, the minimum energy efficiency standards for environmental combustion plants in accordance with available techniques.
in writing. ‒ according to the commission's impact study, air pollution leads to over 400 000 premature deaths a year and medical costs of up to €940 billion. it also contributes to significant environmental degradation, with 62% of the eu area exposed to eutrophication and economic damage such as €15 billion in lost working days, €4 billion in medical costs, €3 billion in lost harvests and €1 billion in damage to buildings. this proposal for a directive is welcome in the context that reducing emissions from medium combustion plants could help to meet eu objectives in areas such as climate and energy, reduce greenhouse gas emissions, while improving energy efficiency and promoting renewable energies. i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the air from medium combustion plants because i believe that by acting now and closing the current legislative gap, clear signals can be sent in terms of investments and stimulating research and innovation in breakthrough technologies.
in writing. ‒ air pollution remains a real cross-border problem, with many member states importing a considerable part of their air pollution from neighbouring countries. there is currently no eu-wide regulation on the level of emissions of air pollutants from medium combustion plants (installations with a rated thermal input between 1 and 50 mw). i support action at eu level to establish a coherent and ambitious regulatory framework and to tackle emissions effectively.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the rapporteur's position that the proposed amendments improve the possibility of realistic implementation of this directive so that it can become an important tool for improving air quality in the european union without imposing unjustified burdens on society and the economy.
in writing. ‒ i believe that measures to tackle air pollution at the source are indispensable and therefore i strongly support the adoption and strict implementation of the directive on medium combustion plants. medium combustion plants are one of the most important sources of emissions and a very serious threat to health and the environment. i congratulate my colleagues for being very ambitious in setting these targets, for granting a limited number of derogations and for deciding short compliance timelines for existing plants. hopefully member states will be as proactive on the matter and make efforts towards cooperation with the commission by providing correct and punctual data from medium combustion plants, and will assess the need for stricter emission values in areas that still do not comply with eu air quality standards.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. the action programme which will run up to 2020 sets the framework for a review of eu air quality. it aims to lower the potential risks to human health and the environment by laying down rules to control and reduce emissions of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and particulate matter into the air.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report that will establish an emission limit value for medium combustion plants, engines and gas turbines.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as i believe clean and healthy breathable air is crucial for the health of our citizens and there is nothing we should prioritise more. the emissions from combustion plants are obviously a main source of pollution and this text does an important job in calling for tighter regulation, with more control over the permits and functioning of these plants, but also envisaging a reduction in emissions in the next period. and this i believe is the key – not to preserve the current status quo when it comes to air pollution and emissions, but to strive for a reduction in the future, for a better air quality and for greener alternatives for energy production.
in writing. ‒ air pollution is one of the key environmental problems facing our societies today. lack of proper air quality can cause many long-term health problems for us and our children. in this context, it is necessary to adopt a unified european union approach to reducing carbon dioxide emissions overall. this document represents an important step towards limiting these pollutant emissions (sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and particulate matter) by establishing clear rules on pollution from medium combustion plant activities. the regulations complement existing european legislation on internal combustion plants of large companies and small plants. in general, these measures contribute to the implementation of the union's climate change policies. of course, the application of these measures will require a transitional period for those installations to be adapted to the new environmental standards. the transition period may vary depending on the size and profile of the installations, the impact on the population. however, in the end, these measures will contribute to improving the living conditions of all union citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the air from medium combustion plants. according to the impact assessment carried out by the commission, air pollution is estimated to lead to over 400 000 premature deaths per year and to health costs of up to eur 940 billion; it also contributes to significant environmental degradation. the report shows that reducing emissions from medium combustion plants can contribute to meeting the union's climate and energy objectives. i welcome the approach of the rapporteur, who in his proposal has taken account of the special situation of the sme sector. given that 75% of medium combustion plants are operated by smes, the report states, great care must be taken to avoid imposing an excessive administrative burden on them.
in writing. ‒ the report on caseins and caseinates intended for human consumption proposes the approximation of the laws of the member states on caseins and caseinates intended for human consumption, the need arising from the requirements to adapt the compositional requirements for edible caseins to the international standard. thus, international standards require the setting of the parameters related to the maximum moisture content of edible casein at 12% (instead of 10% as before) and the maximum milk fat content of edible acid casein at 2% (instead of 2,25%). the importance of these standards is reflected in the context of general food law, which provides for the free movement of healthy foodstuffs which make a significant contribution to the quality of life of citizens. to this end, it will ensure that consumers are informed about the food they consume, including provisions on the labelling of casein and caseinates intended for human consumption. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that health and food safety must be given due importance so that union citizens can enjoy a healthy life, conducive to harmonious development and in line with international standards.
in writing. ‒ i support the rapporteur's position, in particular for aligning the composition requirements for edible caseins with those imposed by the codex alimentarius, thus ensuring a level playing field for all food business operators on the world market.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support the introduction, in the commission proposal, of the provision of sufficient information in business to business relations in order to ensure the presence and accuracy of food information for the final consumer; the updating of the definition of ‘casein’, in line with the international food standards as defined by the fao and who; the introduction of a specific label for caseinates exceeding the minimum compositional requirements of milk protein. moreover, i welcome the proposal that the power to adopt delegated acts should not be conferred on the commission for an unlimited period of time, but rather for five years, thus increasing the monitoring capability of the co-legislators of the adoption of delegated acts by the commission. finally, i approve of the proposal to set an ambitious yet realistic date for the implementation of this directive in the member states (12 months after the entry into force of this directive).
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that will instate provisions on the labelling of caseins and caseinates intended for human consumption. in case the mandatory information laid out therein does not appear on the packages, containers or labels, such products may not be placed on the market as edible caseins or caseinates or used for the preparation of foodstuffs.
in writing. ‒ food security for european citizens is one of the principles underlying the powers conferred on the european parliament by the treaty of lisbon in the field of food. in accordance with this principle, we, the european parliamentarians, are responsible for regulating the processing rules of food intended for consumption by the citizens of the member states. caseins and caseinates are components obtained from the processing of milk, representing the main protein intake of dairy products. this process is the exploitation of an agricultural product which is very important for farmers in our countries. at the same time, however, we must take account of food safety, so as not to endanger the health of the population. this implies an update of directive 83/417/eec to take into account the relevant codex n290 standard and the world health organisation rules, which require a higher mandatory minimum amount of that protein in dairy products placed on the european market. in this context, the adoption of the current document is a win for ensuring better quality of dairy products for european consumers, which is why i support its adoption.
in writing. ‒ the report on the proposal for a regulation on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the union introduces new rules on public procurement and the conclusion of concession contracts with the european institutions. there are three main directions pursued in this report that i was referring to: alignment with the directives which will introduce clarifications on how contracting authorities can contribute to environmental protection and the promotion of sustainable development, obtaining an economically advantageous offer and imposing certain labels and/or using appropriate award methods. the report also addresses rules on the exclusion of economic operators in order to protect the financial interests of the union. this will create a database that will centrally store exclusion cases to ensure the detection and prevention of potential risk factors, and subsequently make public the information on excluded operators. with regard to public procurement by the union, it is intended that electronic procurement contributes to a more efficient use of public funds and to improving access to public contracts for all economic operators. i voted in favour of the report on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the european union as it ensures the effective, transparent and appropriate use of funds, which is one of the union's main concerns.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the 2016 budget reflects the priorities of the policies on job creation, but i think the council's position to limit the 2016 budget to what was foreseen is drastic.
in writing. ‒ this resolution supports the commission regulation proposal to the financial regulation applicable to the union budget in accordance with the provisions of the new directives on public procurement and the awarding of contracts concession. it introduces many new, positive changes. i therefore supported adoption of the report in plenary.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this proposal is to align the financial regulation with the new directives on concessions and public procurements. the financial regulation contains the rules of the establishment and implementation of the eu budget and is applicable to all areas of expenditure and all revenue.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that will improve the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the union. as shadow rapporteur on this report i have lowered the discrimination of diverse economic operators.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text as i believe it is indeed very necessary to impose stricter limits on the financial operators the eu uses in its various projects. there are clearly severe problems, in several member states, as regard to union programmes. we finance, mostly indirectly, a huge amount of programmes and sometimes there is not nearly enough oversight of the achievements of those spent funds. at the same time, it important for many countries, romania included, not to block but to facilitate more funding and better spending. the key is to impose better oversight and a more dynamic payment system that can lead to more money actually being spent and more efforts being finalised.
in writing. ‒ the european union budget is the main instrument through which we as european institutions can achieve our aims and have a direct impact on the lives of european citizens. its spending shall be subject to rules agreed upon, which shall ensure the efficient use of funds to achieve the precise objectives and the optimum impact on the target groups identified. in this respect, the general budget of the eu is the most concrete expression of the principle of european solidarity. however, at intervals, the rules governing the general budget of the union need to be reassessed and improved in the light of new experiences in the practical use of these funds. the european commission's proposals are worth considering, given the institutional experience gained in implementing european-funded projects. the position of the european parliament is, however, at least as important, as it brings an important contribution from the direct representatives of the citizens of the member states. the document is significant for the implementation of european programmes from next year and aims to simplify the rules, make the spending of european money more efficient and ensure that existing rules are being observed as much as possible, and should therefore be adopted as soon as possible.
mr president, i would like to thank the european commission for putting this action plan on the table of the european parliament, a solid, comprehensive action plan, an action plan to create a single capital market. i would like to draw attention to the fact that the success of this action plan depends on rebuilding trust between those who save and those who invest, between those who intermediate financially in the capital markets, but that trust, as you know, has been seriously shaken by the financial crisis. and when we talk about trust in the capital markets, we talk about transparency and integrity. and when we talk about transparency and integrity, we are talking about the quality of financial information that exists in the single capital market. i am glad that the action plan mentions one essential detail, namely that there is in fact no single financial reporting system for smes. i would like this issue to be set out separately in the annex to the action plan, which contains the list of actions and deadlines for their implementation. why do i ask this? because for years we have been talking about the need for this system of financial reporting standards for small and medium-sized enterprises, without having a result so far.
madam president, i am last but not least, i hope. even though free movement of capital was one of the principles on which the eu was built, its capital markets infrastructure is characterised by fragmentation, caused mainly by factors with their origin in national laws, such as insolvency, tax and security laws. as its purpose is to overcome these obstacles, i believe the capital markets union (cmu) has real potential in terms of jobs, growth and financial resilience. stronger capital markets will unlock more investment from the eu and the rest of the world, and better connect financing to investment projects across the union. i support the proposed innovative forms of business financing and the harmonisation of accounting standards for small and medium-sized enterprises. european small and medium-sized enterprises’ equal access to finance and thus to capital markets should be one of the leading principles of cmu. although i welcome the initiatives of the cmu package, several of them could create additional risks for the economy by deregulating the financial sector if they undermine investor protection.
madam president, the proper functioning of payment services is a foundation of any efficient market, which is why i can only welcome the european commission's initiative to come up with a new directive to create a harmonised legal framework, to have an integrated system of payment services in the european union and of course i thank mr tajani and the others who worked on this very good report. in recent years, the digitalisation of economies has multiplied the number of payment service providers, in particular those based on the internet. we need transparency, security, fair competition and efficiency in payment services more than ever. we need to protect consumers who use these payment services. payment services are a public good, which is why there is also a need to strengthen the oversight of payment service providers.
mr president, poor implementation of eu laws, deficiencies in inspections and gaps in the relevant eu legislation are issues that, if not addressed effectively, can lead to a situation similar to the one exposed by the red mud disaster in hungary and in some neighbouring countries that were affected. it seems that even now, hungary and other member states with similar mining plants are not correctly implementing eu laws; that legislation needs to be reinforced and properly applied; and that nothing is being learned from the disasters of the past. i therefore strongly support the call for a stronger emphasis on disaster prevention through research and development into the treatment of hazardous waste, and for more stringent environmental inspections. the commission and the member states must step up efforts to ensure the proper implementation of the eu legislation governing the extractive waste industry to avoid a repeat of such environmental and human disasters. it is very important to better protect our environment, to fight pollution and to fight climate change. ultimately, it is only one planet that we have to save.
mr president, when the european council of march 2014 concluded that we must elaborate a plan to reduce energy dependence on russia, they were suggesting that, beyond strengthening our relationship with existing suppliers other than russia, a new policy goal should also be to open the way for new energy resources. as a matter of fact, this expenditure on the nord stream pipeline would negatively affect the countries of central and eastern europe, only favour the interests of certain eu countries and companies, and oppose the principle of solidarity and common action embedded in the guidelines of the common strategy that the commission developed at the request of the member states – a very negative move from some european union countries with regard to eu solidarity and cohesion. i consequently believe that we ultimately need to stand by our european energy security strategy if we do not want to be vulnerable to supply disruptions, whether caused by political or commercial disputes, political instability or infrastructure failures.
on behalf of the s&d group.– mr president, considering the importance of empowering women, not only as a self-standing human rights issue, but also as a precondition for achieving the post-2015 sustainable development goals, i believe that the 2017 mid-term review of the development cooperation instrument (dci) presents a good opportunity to assess the impact of dci-financed programmes on women and girls and make reallocations if necessary. two of the millennium development goals explicitly address women’s rights – namely promotion of gender equality and empowerment of women, and the improvement of maternal health – and they remain, unfortunately, largely unachieved. moreover, progress towards gender equality and women’s empowerment has been slow and uneven in many countries. the conclusions of the evaluation of the 2010-2015 gender action plan show the clear need for a change in eu action on gender equality and women’s empowerment, and that we need a renewed political commitment by the european external action service and the commission to improve performance in this area. i therefore strongly support the call to put in place measures that will strengthen the leadership and participation of women and women’s rights organisations in both the public and private spheres. combating violence against women, tackling pay gaps and ensuring that women can reach equal positions in the working world should be our priorities for the immediate future. we must make a greater effort towards preventing discrimination against women on the grounds of marriage or maternity, and ensuring their effective right to work, to be educated and to be free from any kind of oppression. the renewed gender action plan should focus on all aspects of eu external policy – development cooperation, humanitarian aid, trade, human rights and foreign affairs, migration and asylum – in line with the policy coherence for development principle, and should apply to developing, neighbourhood and enlargement countries alike. it is fundamental that we cooperate with third-country governments and with all stakeholders indicated in regions where rape is used as a weapon of war and oppression to bring this practice to an end, to bring the perpetrators to justice and work with survivors, affected women and communities to help them heal and recover. only when these issues are properly addressed by the decision makers and become part of the culture and social values will we be close to achieving a stronger, safer and more equal society for all.
in writing. equal opportunities are a key factor for sustainable development, especially in the areas where inequality is most pronounced in developing countries, namely: employment and economic activities, governance, access to education, health, violence against women. i appreciate that considerable progress has been made on gender equality in development cooperation and i believe that coordination and harmonisation with member states through the exchange of good practice is important. i believe that the european union must continue to promote gender equality at international and regional level, in particular by stressing the importance of extending its application beyond the fields of health and education, thus contributing to the full integration of equal opportunities between women and men in country strategies and the implementation of european union development cooperation.
the first item on the agenda is the debate on the report by mrs anna záborská, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on the implementation of directive 2006/54/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 5 july 2006 on the implementation of the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment of men and women in matters of employment and occupation (2014/2160(ini)) (a8-0213/2015).
mr. president, i want to address my colleagues. i am, on the whole, saying that the report is necessary, but what are the chances of it being implemented when, commissioner, you start by saying that it is an important report, and then, astonishingly, you say that we actually need to improve women's skills and help them? what are you trying to say, commissioner, that women are not prepared, that they are not competent, that we should help them? how do you explain that in countries with a female majority, women's access to leadership positions, whether we're talking about state institutions, politics or the private sector, is male? who decides, commissioner, in this case? the men. do not give the false impression that this is why women are discriminated against and why there are disparities: because they are not professionally trained. that's why i'm leaving skeptical here, if that's your perception. we women don't want positive discrimination. we want you to respect the value; mathematically, there's no way that, out of a large percentage of the female population in a state, there's not a close percentage in decision-making positions. and there's another problem: the problem of education, which we've talked about. there can't really be a textbook education where the woman is in the kitchen and the man is in the car. i think we need a surveillance of how the legislation is involved.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, october 8, 2015. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing.– equality between men and women is a fundamental principle of european law which applies to all aspects of life in society, including the world of work. however, based on the last available figures from 2012, the average gender pay gap in the eu was approximately 16.4%. moreover, while female labour participation varies between sectors, some sectors, such as transport, have even fewer women on average. the reasons for that are related to stereotypes of male dominance and lack of attractiveness in a wide sense. we should address the situation by calling for more action by the eu 28 and the individual member states. we need to start by revising the recast directive in order to reduce differences in pay for men and women. we must also urge member states to take more action on unequal pay practices and to promote wage transparency. most divisively, we can request the introduction of mandatory pay audits for companies listed on stock exchanges and the imposition of sanctions on companies failing to meet their responsibilities with regard to gender equality. there is no reason why, in today’s world, we should accept a situation where men are receiving higher pay and preferential treatment in the matter of employment and occupations.
the next item is the debate on the question with request for an oral answer on the implementation of article 20 (2) of the services directive and article 8 (3) of the consumer rights directive, addressed to the commission by evelyne gebhardt, on behalf of the s&d group, and andreas schwab, on behalf of the epp group (o-000083/2015 2015/2881(rsp) b8-0754/2015).
mr president, i would first like to congratulate the authors of the question with a request for an oral reply. i am on the imco committee and we often discuss this in the committee: it is not enough to have a services directive if we do not have a precise monitoring of what is happening in the market. because we really want a unified framework, and as my colleague eveline said, very often you want to move to another country to make an online purchase. discrimination is not just about price, as my other colleague said, but also about delivery time and many other things related to quality. i think it is important for the commission to take note of this question, but we would also expect a concrete answer: what can be done to really improve the quality of the uniform application of the services directive in the member states and, above all, what can be done to stop this discrimination from occurring? i think we need to act and be proactive, not to go through what happened to volkswagen, to find out when things are too bad.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on the central african republic (2015/2874 ((rsp)).
mr president, the recent outbreak of violence between different religious communities in the central african republic is highly alarming, with approximately 50 people killed, 100 injured and 30 000 displaced since 26 september 2015. i therefore strongly support the call for maximising support for stabilisation, peace-building and humanitarian efforts in the central african republic. we need the eu and its member states to do all they can to bring the country back from the brink, ensuring better civilian protection as soon as possible and accelerating the disarmament of militias. inadequate assistance is likely to lead to further instability and to increased flows of refugees and displaced people. the government of the central africa republic should address the root causes of the crisis, such as widespread poverty and regional disparities and inequalities, and should reinforce governmental structures in administration, fight corruption and promote an inclusive economic recovery. only strong action supported by the efforts of the international community can re-establish reconciliation, security and trust in the state institutions.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on the situation in thailand (2015/2875 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, the political situation in thailand is at an impasse. on the one hand we have a military regime which has seized power by force and which wishes to maintain itself as long as possible, and on the other hand we have social tensions which are the result of a hardening of the existing regime, particularly in the area of freedom of expression. the european union has long enjoyed strong political, economic and cultural relations with thailand. our role now is to support a democratic transition in the country and to push the military junta to speed up the electoral calendar. the prime minister has announced that the constitution drafting process will take 20 months, which would postpone the elections until june 2017. this timetable is not an acceptable solution for the people, who want to see the return of a legitimate civilian government as soon as possible. the recent appointment by the government of a new constitution drafting committee and the release of several journalists are also to be welcomed. these are positive signs, but much remains to be done. only by holding free and fair elections will the thai government regain the trust and respect of the people.
it is clear that the ep parliamentary group and the whole european union are looking forward to the normalisation of thai politics: we want civilian rule to replace military rule through free and democratic elections, and that the process of drafting a new constitution is completed as soon as possible and a basic law based on equality, freedom and the rule of law is adopted. i think the european union has the opportunity to support this process, because the biggest working capital investor in asean member states is europe. we have more investment in the region than the united states and japan combined! and as a trading partner, only china is ahead of us. of course, respect for human rights, including the rights of national minorities, is an essential part of economic, political and cultural development. this is often forgotten even by some eu member states within the union, including their own member states.
madam president, considering the deteriorating situation of human rights and freedoms in thailand, as evidenced by the severe censorship of tv channels and community radio situations, the arbitrary detaining of people and the arrest of 14 activists from the neo-democracy movement, i support the call on the thai military authorities to lift repressive restrictions on the right to liberty and the peaceful exercise of other human rights, in particular those relevant to peaceful involvement in political activities. concerning the situation of the workers’ rights defender, andy hall, who is facing seven years in prison and a multi-million-dollar fine for defamation after contributing to a report alleging labour abuses by a thai pineapple wholesaler, i welcome the call in this resolution for the dismissal of all charges against him, since his actions, as a human rights defender, were directed at exposing instances of human trafficking and improving the legal situation of migrant workers in thailand.
madam president, i want to join in what has been said here. i want to thank the authors of this motion, i want to thank all of you who have come forward and clearly condemned the violence that is taking place in nigeria. the numbers here have been falling, and i don't need to repeat them, over two million internal refugees in this country, thousands of murdered women, children, but also ordinary civilians. more than ten million children in nigeria are out of school, the highest number of out-of-school children in the world per capita. i think that this is a subject that needs to be debated, not underestimated just because it does not directly concern us, as the problems of the middle east do. i think the european commission should be very active here. i call on the commissioner to try to be a leader in getting humanitarian aid to this territory, to the children and women living and displaced in this area. the money that the donors promised needs to be delivered, and unfortunately, it's not today. we need to talk to the president.
madam president, throughout nigeria insecurity caused by the conflict between the terror group boko haram, military forces and civilian self-defence has escalated into a worsening humanitarian crisis. the latest spate of attacks has uprooted 500 000 children, bringing the total number of displaced children in north—east nigeria and neighbouring chad and niger to 1.4 million. these children are at risk of being trapped in a cycle of violence, separated from their families, exposed to exploitation and recruited by armed groups, despite a commitment by the commission to provide additional funds to boost urgent humanitarian aid to the region. i would like to express my concern at the funding gap between commitments and actual payments for unicef operations. it is essential that we contribute to bringing to an end the violence of boko haram as soon as possible, re-establish stability and security across the whole country and address the root causes of terrorism and illegal migration.
in writing. ‒ the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on payment services in the internal market brings new regulations in line with technical innovation and the rapid growth of electronic payments and the emergence of new types of payment services on the market. thus, significant progress has been made in the integration of retail payments in the union, in particular in the context of union legislation on payments. developments in payment services in the internal market have given rise to important regulatory challenges. for example, important segments of the payment services market, in particular card payments, on the internet, from mobile devices, become fragmented along national borders. the lack of a clear legislative framework to regulate this issue has led to legal uncertainty, the emergence of potential security risks in the payment chain and a lack of consumer protection in certain areas, which is why i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on payment services in the internal market.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the continued development of an integrated internal market for secure electronic payments is crucial to support the union's economic growth and to ensure that consumers, merchants and businesses can fully enjoy the variety and transparency of payment services to benefit fully from the internal market.
in writing. ‒ i congratulate the rapporteur for his work on the consensual outcome of the report. i would congratulate him especially for ensuring the development of new practices and new players in payment services in response to the challenges the current framework faces, while ensuring safety and transparency for consumers. transparency of payment services is a key element in terms of guaranteeing that consumers benefit fully from the internal market, and strengthening trust in a harmonised payments market. the payments institutions’ access to accounts maintained with a credit institution will allow the unrestricted and efficient provision of payment services. lastly, consumer protection is a shared competence of the eu and member states and, especially in the field of financial services, it falls within the broader aim of protecting economic interests. therefore, i support the elements added to strengthen the provision for consumer protection, such as the unconditional right to reimbursement, better protection in relation to transactions and in the framework contract between a consumer and a payment services provider.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. it will allow the development of new practices and new players in payment services while, at the same time, ensuring safety and transparency for consumers.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report which will improve the effectiveness of the european parliament and council directives on payment services in the internal market.
in writing. ‒ the european union's single market economy can only function when there is an optimal circulation of money for the purchase and sale of goods and services between citizens and traders in the member states. in this respect, payment services are a key element that can have a significant impact on the economic development of member states. the european commission issued the first directive to regulate this area in 2007, but in the meantime, important progress has been made which requires its revision. the use of third parties to provide those payment services provides greater transparency and security for consumers. the new document provides more protection against erroneous payments, for the protection of invoice payments and for the protection of consumer rights. it also regulates surcharges on transactions based on certain payment instruments, in particular on bank cards, with a view to establishing limits at least at the level of interchange fees within the union. i believe that this document brings important changes to the regulation of payment services, which are in support of european citizens and the development of the union economy.
in writing. ‒ i believe, considering the large number of petitions received by the ep denouncing abusive terms in mortgage contracts and risky financial instruments in spain, that it is very appropriate to request the commission to make effective enquiries as to whether there have been violations of fundamental rights and infringements of european legislation. we must be straightforward and take the lead in order to put an end to bank-related infringements of eu consumer-rights law in spain. the situation there is critical: since 2008, more than 700 000 people have completely or partially lost their savings and nearly 400 000 have been evicted from their homes. the spanish government should act as soon as possible to put an end to this situation, and should put forward initiatives to stop it happening in the future.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution, which will initiate new legislation to harmonise mortgage contract terms and debt settlement procedures with a view to reinforcing consumer protection across the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe it is unacceptable for financial institutions to deceive or not to inform customers about all aspects of the loans, deposits or financial investments they encourage them to make. many people in spain, but also in romania and other eu member states, have found themselves in desperate situations, losing their homes and their life savings. unfortunately, this has often been the case because people have not been fully informed or, in the case of investments, have not been made aware of the real risk they are taking. of course, eu law provides for a number of measures and regulations which, if properly and fully implemented, would drastically reduce or eliminate such cases. however, the reality is that these people have been misled and the authorities in the member states, together with all eu institutions, need to improve the legislation, fully enforce it and ensure that such abusive practices and conditions and false or incomplete promotion will not be repeated in the future.
in writing. ‒ petitions are a very important tool through which the european parliament keeps in touch with the citizens it directly represents and with the problems they face. the interest of the citizen as a consumer must be a priority in all the measures we take. one such case is the legislation governing mortgage lending in the member states. citizens are now telling us that there is a problem in spain with incomplete information for mortgage-backed loans, which is leading to the eviction of tens of thousands of people who have put their trust in this type of credit instrument, presented in an overly favourable light by certain banks. the problem is also found in other countries affected by austerity policies that have been implemented without an assessment of the social impact they may have. it is our duty to correct these shortcomings and to come to the aid of citizens who have resorted to this type of credit without bad faith, but who have ended up in dramatic situations. we must be aware that for many of our citizens, we may represent the last chance they have for a normal life.
mr president, i supported this motion because i believe that the european union, as an international institution, must defend human rights in the world. we are constantly debating the human rights violations in the world, so we must also be the ones who will fight against the death penalty. in short, there are still fifty-eight countries that have the death penalty, and in some states it is carried out in a very barbaric way. i want to mention china, i want to mention iran, i want to mention saudi arabia, these are countries where the death penalty is clearly abused, and we also debated in the bloc this morning about how a young dissident should be brutally executed, murdered in saudi arabia. we must therefore fight against this and try to promote the prohibition of this punishment in all international forums and, on the contrary, insist and say that the adequate punishment for the most serious crimes is life imprisonment.
i'm against the death penalty. in 2014, 2,500 people died as a result of the death penalty. every day there are people sentenced to death for crimes under the common law or for exercising their freedom, and i'm talking about the case of the protesters, the case of those who participate in the protests, in particular, for example, the case of the minor ali mohammed al-nimr in saudi arabia, who participated in the protests and was killed. not many months ago, saudi arabia employed executioners to behead prisoners or amputate limbs (legs or hands) of those convicted of lesser crimes. question: are we all in 2015 or just some of us?
in writing. ‒ as the world day against the death penalty on 10 october 2015 focuses on raising awareness of the use of the death penalty for drug-related offences, i consider that this is incompatible with the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights on which the union is founded, and that any member state reintroducing the death penalty would thus be in breach of the treaties and the eu charter of fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ i am very concerned by the fact that, in opposition to the general trend of recent decades, an increasing number of countries have enacted laws permitting the death penalty for drug related offences. i therefore strongly support the call on the commission to mainstream the campaign to abolish the death penalty in eu foreign policy and external relations; and to have talks with third countries that are responsible for a significant rise in the number of executions or for re-starting executions. the death penalty is the ultimate cruel, inhuman and degrading punishment, which violates the right to life, as enshrined in the universal declaration of human rights, and it is an act of torture unacceptable to states that respect human rights. we need to stick to our strong position against the death penalty, seeking the establishment of a universal moratorium with a view to the global abolition of capital punishment, as a key objective of the union’s human rights policy.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support the abolition of the death penalty and salute the eu’s paramount aim on this matter – universal abolition. i am also deeply concerned about the number of death sentences delivered in recent months and i believe that such practices violate international human rights standards. furthermore, it is clear that the death penalty is at odds with the values upon which the eu was founded. the commission should pay attention in relation to aid and political support flowing towards countries that do not make progress towards abolishing the death penalty.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution that reiterates the long-standing opposition of the european union to the death penalty in all cases and under all circumstances, and emphasises once again that the abolition of the death penalty contributes to the enhancement of human dignity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as it comes at a critical time in the world. instead of the human rights situation improving, it seems to be deteriorating worldwide. more and more executions take place in asia, and also in iran and saudi arabia. the penalty is also applied in the usa and japan and i consider this method of punishment to be barbaric and outdated, no longer in line with modern standards and respect for human rights. in particular, the barbaric and even arbitrary way the death penalty is being used in some countries, including in south-east asia, coupled with the serious doubts we have over the stability and independence of the judiciaries in these countries, the almost inexistent appeal recourses for people on trial and the low standards of professionalism employed by some of their law enforcement agencies lead to the unavoidable conclusion that innocents are being executed under the guise of a legal death penalty. death penalty as a practice should be outlawed everywhere in the world immediately!
in writing. ‒ the death penalty is one of the vestiges of humanity's long-gone eras that still persists in some parts of the world. it is an outdated legal tool designed for a type of society based on fear and terror of death by unnatural means. meanwhile, humanity has progressed to a stage that presupposes a society based on rational arguments and legal instruments designed to ensure the reintegration of troubled individuals into society. in this regard, the european union must send a clear message to other partners and international actors that it does not agree with the continuation of this practice and become a model for states in other parts of the world in the humane resolution of the problem of legal punishment of criminals, including drug traffickers. in this context, it should be noted that the focus should not be on the removal of the individual, for whose education the state and society have invested significant resources, but on the correction of the behaviour in question and the constructive reintegration of individuals into society, through unrestricted access to retraining courses and personal rehabilitation within society. such an approach is much more advantageous for all of us and for the world in which we live.
in writing. ‒ the european union maintains a firm opposition to the death penalty on principle and its abolition is one of the high priorities of eu human rights policy. the european union is the main institutional actor in the fight to abolish it. the death penalty is a cruel and inhuman punishment, with ample evidence demonstrating that it has no deterrent effect on crime. its abolition is essential for the protection of human dignity, freedom, democracy and the rule of law on the one hand, and for the development of human rights on the other. despite the many texts adopted at european and international level in recent years, there was an increase of 23% in 2014 compared to the previous year, with 2466 people sentenced in 55 countries. the eu therefore reaffirms its concern about the use of the death penalty, in particular by minors and persons with mental disabilities, and calls for a definitive end to these practices, which constitute a serious violation of international human rights law. in view of the increasing use of this sanction, as well as the wishes of other countries to reintroduce it in their national systems, i support the european parliament's resolution on the death penalty.
in writing. ‒ i support and support the idea expressed in this motion for a resolution, namely that the commission should further develop the concept of an eu-wide instrument for risk-sharing in the event of industrial disasters, in full respect of the 'polluter pays' principle, to cover any costs beyond a high level of mandatory financial guarantees.
in writing. ‒ poor implementation of eu laws, deficiencies in inspections and gaps in relevant eu legislation are issues that, if not addressed effectively, can lead to a situation similar to the one exposed by the red mud disaster in hungary and in some neighbouring countries. it seems that, even now, hungary and other member states with similar mining plants are not correctly implementing eu laws; that legislation needs to be reinforced and properly applied; and that nothing is being learned from the disasters of the past. i therefore strongly support the call for greater emphasis on disaster prevention through research and development into the treatment of hazardous waste, and for more stringent environmental inspections. the commission and the member states must step up efforts to improve, and ensure the proper implementation of, all eu legislation governing the extractive waste industry so as to avoid a repeat of such an environmental and human disaster. let us protect the environment more effectively. let us fight pollution. let us fight climate change!
in writing. ‒ we must avoid a repeat of such environmental and human disasters. the resolution clearly stipulates that member states with similar mining plants are not correctly implementing eu laws. the legislation needs to be reinforced and properly applied.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution, which will further elaborate the concept of an eu-wide industrial-disaster risk-sharing facility, with full observance of the polluter-pays principle, to cover possible costs beyond a high level of mandatory financial security.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution today because i believe that a repeat of an accident similar to the one in 2010 in hungary, in which a very large amount of red mud was spilled, flooding several villages, killing 10 people and polluting very large areas of land, including protected areas, must be prevented by all possible means. of course, subsequent investigations have found a lack or poor application of eu law and a weak control and inspection system. unfortunately, this is not unusual in other member states where there are such deposits of red mud or other dangerous chemicals. it is imperative that eu legislation in this area be reviewed and completed to close gaps. at the same time, without accountability and punishment of the polluter and without full enforcement of the law, such cases will unfortunately be repeated.
in writing. ‒ the protection of the environment is one of the basic principles of the european union institutions. this implies a great responsibility for all economic operators in the territory of the member states to manage their activity in such a way as not to cause damage to the natural environment. mining activities involve quite high risks of destruction of the places where the extractive procedures take place, as confirmed by the tragic event that took place in hungary five years ago. to avoid such events in the future, european legislation has been amended to focus on the preventive and anticipatory side. however, the adoption of legislation is not enough to guarantee greater safety for citizens and the environment. member states need to implement the legal provisions in practice and ensure through repeated checks that those hazards have been eliminated. otherwise, we risk facing new accidents and disasters that endanger human lives and irreparably destroy the environment. for these reasons, the adoption of this resolution is necessary, which sends an alarm to authorities at all levels to take appropriate measures to avoid such regrettable events.
in writing. ‒ as the european union has committed itself to promoting gender equality and ensuring that gender is mainstreamed in all its actions, i believe it is important to deliver on measures to strengthen women's leadership and participation and women's rights organisations in the public and private spheres.
in writing. ‒ considering the importance of empowering women, not only as a self-standing human rights issue but also as a precondition for achieving post-2015 sustainable development goals, i believe that the 2017 mid-term review of the development cooperation instrument presents a good opportunity to assess the impact of dci-financed programmes on women and girls and to make reallocations if necessary. two of the millennium development goals explicitly address women’s rights: namely the promotion of gender equality and the empowerment of women; and the improvement of maternal health. they remain, unfortunately, largely unachieved. moreover, the progress towards gender equality and women’s empowerment has been slow and uneven in many countries. the conclusions of the evaluation of the gender action plan 2010-2015 show the clear need for a step-change in eu action on gender equality and women’s empowerment and the fact that we need a renewed political commitment by the european external action service and the commission to improve performance. i therefore strongly support the call to put in place measures that will strengthen leadership and participation by women and women’s rights organisations in both the public and private spheres.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution that will renew the eu plan of action on gender equality and women’s empowerment in development and will focus on all aspects of eu external policy – development cooperation, humanitarian aid, trade, human rights and foreign affairs, migration and asylum – in line with the ‘policy coherence for development’ principle, which should apply to developing, neighbourhood and enlargement countries alike.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i have known about the issue of discrimination and abuse against women since the last mandate, when i was a member of the femm committee (committee on women's rights and gender equality). i believe that the european union must respond with one voice to a problem that still exists in many of our societies. since one in three women worldwide is at risk of experiencing violence (physical, sexual), discrimination and coercion at some point in her life, we need a common european action plan on promoting women and gender equality. to address this issue, i believe it is paramount for romania and the rest of the european countries that the state promotes, facilitates and strengthens girls' access to all levels of education. the report also states that member states should strengthen women's legal rights and access to justice through gender-sensitive legal reform. the role of women is crucial in any society and is one of the keys to economic and social development at european level.
in writing. ‒ the european union is the world's leading provider of development aid. however, the resources allocated by the european institutions to this area do not always reach the groups that need them most, for more or less objective reasons. one such case is that of women around the world who do not enjoy equal status with men. thus, globally, women represent the category most exposed to negative phenomena such as poverty, illiteracy, domestic violence, discrimination, undeclared work. attempts to change this situation through development aid are hampered either by the ignorance of national authorities or by the persistence of attitudes based on traditional stereotypes among the citizens of the respective states. in this regard, it is necessary to make more clear that eu development aid is conditional on compliance in practice with un gender equality criteria. only in this way will the countries concerned understand that they must apply these criteria in order to be eligible for union aid and will conditions be created that are favourable to improving the situation of women everywhere. the present resolution is a first step towards changing these imbalances.
the report highlights the lack of work-family balance as one factor in women's disadvantaged labour market position. the text very rightly underlines that the tension between family and professional life contributes to the postponement of childbearing and low fertility rates in most member states. i think that without raising the fertility rate, our societies are going to be on a very unhealthy path, and so this is going to be one of the key issues for the next few decades. and the increase in the desire to have children is certainly linked among many other factors to the inflexibility of jobs and the discrimination against mothers with small children. we still have a lot of work to do in these areas, but i certainly welcome the report's finding that it may be necessary to exclude women with one or more children from the method of calculating the wage gap. this indicator would thus indeed reflect the wage gap resulting from discrimination.
in writing. ‒ equal treatment between women and men is one of the european union's main concerns. the principle of equal pay for work of equal value has been enshrined in the treaties from the outset, but even up to now, it has not been possible to reduce the pay gap, with the average wage gap being 16.4%. slow progress was also made in the employment rate: the employment rate for men was 69.4% in the eu, compared with 58.8% for women. the report on equal opportunities and treatment for men and women in employment proposes to promote this principle on the basis of both moral and economic benefits. gender equality at work benefits the economy and society at large, as reducing the gender pay gap contributes to poverty reduction and income growth. i voted in favour of this report because i firmly believe that economic recovery, competitiveness and growth are desirable and can be achieved through equal pay and equal treatment for women and men.
in writing. ‒ despite the existence of the 2006 directive 2006/54/ec on equality between women and men in the labour market, pay gaps still persist and are even increasing. equal pay for equal work is a right principle that must also work in gender equality and must be evaluated by all employers, and for that we need better legislation.
in writing. ‒ the fact that progress towards gender equality in pay has proven totally insufficient in many eu countries, even though eu measures have been transposed into national laws, leads to a very uneven situation. we must make absolutely sure that unequal pay practices are discouraged and we must promote wage transparency, as requested by trade unions and gender equality bodies. i support the request to introduce mandatory pay audits for companies listed on the stock exchanges, except smes, and to introduce sanctions to exclude companies which fail to meet their responsibilities with regard to gender equality from the public procurement of goods and services from the eu budget. and i welcome the reversal of the burden of proof – a fundamental concept introduced by the report that makes sure the employer would have to prove that any difference in treatment was not based on discrimination.
in writing. ‒ i support the case law of the court of justice of the european union regarding the principle of equal pay that must be observed in respect of each of the elements of remuneration granted to men and women. also, i am a firm believer that empowering women and girls through education is an essential element in promoting equal treatment and equal opportunities in employment.
in writing. - i voted for this report. there are a number of substantial issues that remain unresolved in the area of equal opportunities in the labour market. in 2008 and 2012, the european parliament adopted important resolutions on equal pay for women and men. i, for my part, stressed the importance of non-discriminatory treatment of women in terms of access to education, information and a balanced working life. although many member states have harmonised their national legislation with the relevant provisions of european union law, this transposition is insufficient to ensure respect for certain fundamental rights. the principle of equal pay for equal work or work of equal value, enshrined in article 141 of the treaty and confirmed by the settled caselaw of the court of justice, is also infringed. we need to ensure that we have fair and uniform labour evaluation, that the principle of equal treatment applies to pension schemes, that effective monitoring systems are in place. in addition, access to legal aid is fundamental for victims of discrimination of any kind. if we want a europe where equal opportunities are not just a slogan, we need to generate the legislative framework to make this possible.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report that reiterates the need for clear, harmonised definitions – to facilitate eu-level comparison – of terms such as gender pay gap, gender pension gap, remuneration, direct and indirect pay discrimination, and, especially, work treated as ‘equal’ and work of the same value. a clear and harmonised job classification system and greater wage transparency will improve access to justice.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the femm committee (committee on women's rights and gender equality) in the last mandate, i supported this report because i believe that this problem still exists in many of our societies, including romania, and the european union needs to have a common vision in this context. as the employment rate is generally lower for women than for men and equal treatment between women and men is one of the fundamental principles of european union law, we need common european legislation on equal opportunities in employment. as stated in the document adopted today, member states must actively pursue gender mainstreaming in the budget in order to promote and improve the situation of women in the labour market. it should also address the gender pay gap by taking appropriate measures to reduce the gap, which is a direct consequence of the gender gap. the potential of women, which is an under-exploited source of economic growth at european level, must not be forgotten.
the time for explanations of vote has ended.
question asked in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure. madam president, your speech made it clear that national governments should do more. i've seen the same thing from other colleagues. i ask you: do you not think that the governments and, by implication, the citizens of our countries should know very clearly what the comprehensive programme devised by the european union is, from stopping the case to ensuring the security of europe's borders?
madam president, with an estimated 200 million people in the world forced to leave their homes because of natural disasters in the last five years alone, it is highly likely that climate change could soon become the biggest source of population displacement and that it would have a disproportionately higher impact on less-developed states. the costs of inaction are enormous and the preventive measures of today are far less costly than the adaptation costs needed tomorrow. succeeding in reaching an agreement at the paris conference is not the end of the line, but rather the start of a long period of transformation and adaptation. therefore, in order to ensure that this agreement will have the strongest possible impact in the long term, we have to make sure that the targets are ambitious and binding enough, and that the agreement is underpinned by strong rules on transparency in reporting, monitoring and verification.
in writing. in the not too distant future, the world risks facing new challenges if appropriate action is not taken, and one of the problems will be a fierce competition for resources, generated by climate change. this competition also risks increasing the risk of displacement of the population, both within national borders and across borders. according to a 2014 unep report on climate change adaptation gaps, developing countries will need to double or even triple their climate change adaptation budgets from previous estimates of usd 70-100 billion per year by 2050. particular attention should be paid to reducing deforestation and forest degradation, which are responsible for 20% of global greenhouse gas emissions, and to meeting commitments to restore 350 million hectares of forest, which would reduce co2 emissions by 4,5-8,8 billion tonnes per year by 2030.
in writing. i support the idea that eu member states should increase investment in public research in the energy sector to help create generations of low-carbon technologies. stimulating innovation can also generate economic growth. that's why we need more political signals on this. we are all invited to join our efforts to combat climate change. in the last 10 years, more than 150 million people have been forced to flee their homes due to natural disasters, creating a new category of refugees, climate refugees, who, although not legally recognized, do exist. in the current context, which puts us in the difficult position of managing war refugees, it is more than necessary to pay particular attention to combating climate change, so that we do not have to manage climate refugees as well. climate change is a threat to global stability and security in all respects. i want to emphasize that the lack of real action on climate change will affect all regions of the world differently, from economic, environmental and social losses to loss of human lives.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy.– madam president, let me thank you for this opportunity to discuss today the situation in ukraine with the european parliament. much attention has been given to other pressing problems lately, but ukraine remains a top priority for the eu. we must not underestimate what is at stake. first and foremost, it is human lives. the latest numbers are appalling: almost 8 000 people killed, 1.5 million displaced, and another 1.1 million have left the country since the start of the conflict. secondly, basic principles of international law have been challenged: territorial integrity, sovereignty and the inviolability of borders – cornerstones of the european security order. crimea and sevastopol have been illegally annexed by the russian federation. i want to thank the european parliament and its members for keeping ukraine high on the agenda. the interparliamentary meetings, the recently—signed memorandum of understanding between the european parliament and the rada on parliamentary support and capacity building, and recent visits to ukraine by the committee on legal affairs, the committee on international trade, the subcommittee on human rights and the committee on foreign affairs are just a few examples. in less than two weeks, some of you will travel to ukraine to monitor the local elections – another opportunity for the ukrainian people to exercise their democratic rights. all of this strengthens eu-ukraine relations. your role cannot be overestimated. the european parliament ratified the association agreement a bit more than a year ago, paving the way towards an era of new opportunities for citizens in ukraine, based on its political association and economic integration with the european union. during the last plenary debate on ukraine in february, you discussed at length the normandy format and the minsk agreements. high representative/vice—president mogherini stressed then that the diplomatic efforts led by germany and france are genuinely european, and that we must remain united in our support of the normandy format and the trilateral contact group in order to achieve results. a lot has happened since then. during spring and summer, the situation on the ground deteriorated. nevertheless, ukraine adopted decentralisation-related amendments to the constitution at first reading, including a provision enabling special arrangements for self-government in certain areas of the donetsk and luhansk regions, in line with the minsk agreements. since 1 september – following intense diplomatic efforts – the ceasefire, which was first agreed in september 2014, is at last being largely respected. two weeks ago, an agreement was reached on the withdrawal of tanks and smaller weapons, implementation of which has already begun. the eu-supported organisation for security and cooperation in europe (osce) special monitoring mission is growing further to its full strength of 1 000 monitors on the ground to cope with all new tasks of verification and monitoring. we know, however, that it is not only the number of monitors but also, and above all, their full access to the territory which can make a real difference. that is why we strongly emphasise the need for it. demining along both sides of the line of contact has started. the normandy summit of 2 october 2015 gave further impetus to the political process, and the separatist so-called ‘elections’ in luhansk and donetsk – which would have violated the minsk agreements – have now been deferred. does this mean that the conflict is almost over? clearly not. cases of shooting and shelling still take place; people continue to die. internally displaced persons are unable to return to their homes. the modalities of the local elections according to osce standards still need to be fixed under ukrainian law. the special arrangement for self-government has to be agreed and an amnesty implemented. there should be no russian forces on ukrainian soil. ukraine should regain control over the 450-kilometre-long segment of its border that it has been forced to abandon. nevertheless, what we have now is a process that is moving in the right direction, albeit slowly and sometimes hesitantly. this is no small thing. the joint support of eu institutions and member states for this process has certainly contributed substantially. the eu will continue to support the process, including through financial and in-kind contributions to the osce special monitoring mission. also, the eu and its member states have contributed over eur 242 million in humanitarian and recovery aid, including eur 42 million provided by the commission to all affected populations, including refugees in russia and belarus. in parallel, the commission is engaging in trilateral talks on energy and on implementation of the deep and comprehensive free trade area. they are ensuring that gas supplies to and through ukraine remain uninterrupted during the winter season. they are also addressing russia’s concerns about the deep and comprehensive free trade area without amending or delaying the implementation of the agreement from 1 january onwards. eu relations with ukraine are developing dynamically despite the difficult realities of the conflict which its authorities and, above all, its people have to face. our goal remains to help them create a well-functioning state and a successful economy. just a few examples: the support group for ukraine continues to focus eu advice, technical assistance and financial resources on the ukrainian reform process; over six billion of the original eur 11 billion support package announced by the eu in march 2014 has already been mobilised to launch the reforms that will secure the future. the eu advisory mission to ukraine is doing important work to assist security-sector reforms. its mandate is currently under review to further streamline its activities toward ukraine’s most immediate needs. on visa liberalisation, we are moving towards the goal of visa-free travel for ukrainian citizens to the eu, an important step to enhance people-to-people contacts. further progress is needed, notably in the fight against corruption. to sum up, we have reason to be cautiously optimistic about progress on the diplomatic track if we remain united, and we will continue to support ukraine on its path to becoming a prosperous country. these are our joint objectives, and i look forward to working towards them together.
on behalf of the epp group. madam president, since the last debate we had on ukraine, there has been some progress. the first is, of course, the agreements on the withdrawal of several categories of weapons. that has brought a security boost and we have to acknowledge that. on the other hand, we have, of course, following the meeting that the commissioner mentioned, an important political agreement to cancel the elections scheduled for 18 october. holding this election would have greatly complicated the situation in the eastern territories. i think that in this context we should welcome the implementation, even if delayed, of the minsk agreements, while being aware, however, that the end of 2015 is a failure. the date will probably have to be extended in 2016. on the other hand, it should be noted that from a political point of view, kiev's trust in the moscow authorities has not increased. the messages that our friends, poroshenko and the others, are sending are not encouraging. that's why i think local elections are an important test; a test for central authorities, of course, but also an opportunity to show democratic commitment. i am glad that we will have a european parliament mission there and i think we do not need to talk at this moment about lifting sanctions.
despite our efforts, the european union's efforts, even more than a year after the ratification of the association agreement between the european union and ukraine, the situation in the area remains frozen. the situation is having a significant economic and political impact on eastern europe and i believe that the union's efforts to bring the situation to a final settlement must be stepped up. it is true that european diplomacy in general has made significant strides towards bringing ukraine onto the european path. from viktor yanukovych's political statements in 2011, when he told both the russian federation and the european union that "i am convinced that ukraine will be a member of the european union in about ten years", to the latest success of the negotiations between the european union and the russian federation, which last week led to the postponement of the 2016 elections that were to be held in the separatist republics of eastern ukraine, huge steps have been taken, indeed. still, it's not enough! as a representative of romania, a country in ukraine's neighbourhood, i believe that the short respite given by the postponement of elections in the separatist provinces must be used to the maximum to prevent the outbreak of a new conflict in this region. in practice, the holding and ratification of elections in the separatist provinces will also mean the de facto confirmation of the independence of these provinces from ukraine and will be the moment when conflict tensions will erupt. this is the moment when the european union should do everything in its power to prevent it, because if this frozen conflict re-emerges, this area of europe will become a hotbed of instability for many years to come, with incalculable consequences for the economies of the neighbouring eu member states.
madam president, as russia apparently cannot handle two conflicts at the same time, and the new priority is saving assad’s regime, it has decided finally to allow for the implementation of the minsk ii agreement – most probably in the hope that by starting to comply, sanctions would not be renewed at the end of the year. certainly, those sanctions are technically tied to the implementation of the minsk ii agreement, but one should not lose sight of the bigger strategic picture. that picture indicates not a change of heart on the part of russia, and even less a change in behaviour, but rather a shift of focus from eastern europe – with the exception of a moldova rocked by the demonstration of pro-moscow forces – to the middle east. as russia is simply demonstrating that it is acting strategically in geopolitical terms, the west’s response should be in similar terms.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security.– madam president, i wish to thank members for this discussion, for their engagement on this issue and for their remarks here today. many members commented on the reform process in ukraine. let me give you my update on what is going on in ukraine in the field of judicial reform and reform of the public prosecutor’s office, and also in the field of the fight against corruption, which you mentioned several times. i can only confirm that the reforms are up-and-running. they are now working very intensively on the reform of the judiciary system and also on the reform of the public prosecutor’s office. they have set up a national bureau against corruption and also the anti-corruption team within the prosecutor’s office. the selection of detectives is ongoing. you know that these reforms also represent the steps forward which are the conditions for provision of the second and third tranche of eu financial support to ukraine. so part of the purpose of my mission was to look at these reforms also from the perspective of financing. i spoke to the president, to the prime minister, to members of the ukrainian parliament and to representatives of civil society, and they all understand that it is not only about the laws to be adopted and institutional changes to be undertaken, but it is also about the enforcement of laws. the reform simply must function and it must work in practice. it is also about the continuous pressure from civil society and from the media in the fight against corruption, because there must be very strong understanding of what corruption is and how the fight against this phenomenon, which is really killing the chances for further development of the country, must continue. i have good feelings from ukraine and every time we speak of the reforms in ukraine we must realise how difficult the conditions are under which the ukrainian authorities are working for these reforms. i also want to stress again the importance of your engagement outside brussels and strasbourg. your visits to ukraine are important, as are your public statements, your meetings with civil society and, last but not least, your work with members of the ukrainian parliament. in this context, i would like to wish mr plenković and the other members of the european parliament delegation success in their meeting in kiev on 4-6 november 2015. again, let me repeat that i am very pleased that the european parliament remains as committed as ever to the future of ukraine and its relationship with the european union.
in writing.– despite the positive news of the globally confirmed ceasefire, the situation in eastern ukraine remains highly concerning, unstable and hardly predictable. a lot of ukrainian citizens are still in need of humanitarian aid due to the poverty and displacement resulting from the recent conflicts. therefore, the eu’s humanitarian and recovery aid is more than welcomed. with regard to the sanctions, i consider that these should not be removed until the situation in the ukrainian crisis has been straightened out and the lasting peacemaking process fulfilled. the eu must keep its essential role by constantly supporting ukraine on its democratic path. this can be achieved through a society built on shared european values, an operational state and a strong economy.
in writing.– we have heard many individuals discussing ukraine’s slow progress. it is truly a slow process to implement the minsk agreements with such a difficult counterpart. it is truly a slow process to withdraw tanks and smaller weapons, as agreed in september 2014, when your country’s territorial sovereignty and integrity have been violated. peace is truly a slow process when more than 8 000 people have been killed and 1.5 million have been displaced. i hope that through the organisation of balanced and objective elections, ukraine can show how far it has come on the path of democracy.
in writing. although the greek situation and the migration crisis have reduced the focus of world politics on the events in ukraine, the issue has not been resolved at all. the implementation of the minsk agreements remains essential and requires a consistent approach not only from pro-russian rebels but also from ukrainian institutions. the territorial integrity and sovereignty of ukraine must be guaranteed, but everyone must also take into account that the country has a significant russian community, which must be given the opportunity to settle important issues of their lives, and their linguistic rights must be respected. we should not only pay attention to the situation of the russian minority, since the ukrainian authorities last september organized the electoral districts in transcarpathia, which is 12 percent hungarian, to prevent the entry of representatives of the hungarian minority into the county council. this attitude does not indicate that the ukrainian leadership feels the importance of a fair settlement of ethnic relations, and even expressly violates the agreement between the representative organization of the hungarian minority there and petro poroshenko.
madam president, it is easy to conclude that the problems in europe include anti-semitism, islamophobia or hate speech. what is important, though, is to see the underlying causes, because eliminating the causes leads to countering the effects. an effective strategy against racism, xenophobia and anti-semitism must be based on informing and educating citizens, and on protecting and promoting the rights of minority groups. we need concrete policies that eliminate discrimination and hate crimes against jews, muslims, christians, that find viable solutions against violence, employment discrimination or social exclusion. we must demonstrate that europe is a community of shared values, of which that of the equality in dignity of all human beings and the respect for that equality in dignity is the foundation of any democratic society.
in writing.– ethnic and religious discrimination are increasingly growing across europe. according to the commission, in the past year one in five europeans has experienced discrimination or harassment on a religious ground. moreover, the commission’s annual report against racism and intolerance (ecri) demonstrates a dramatic increase in anti-semitism, islamophobia, online hate speech and xenophobic political discourse in 2014. according to the ecri report numbers have more than doubled for insults and physical attacks on jewish persons and institutions in 2014, particularly after renewed violence in the middle east in 2014. another recent eurobarometer survey showed that muslims are least accepted in european societies among religious groups. these sentiments are further fuelled by the refugee crisis. the fact that in europe today anti-semitism and islamophobia are still a reality points to a wider problem that must be confronted. we must tackle anti-semitism, islamophobia and hate speech by taking all means to ensure the implementation of the eu directives on this matter in individual countries, and for the entire eu. more needs to be done to promote non-discrimination and inclusion, while strengthening the role of education and the civil society. if left unchallenged, anti-semitism, islamophobia and hate speech will create a much bigger problem for europe.
madam president, i will also address commissioner jourova in my speech. in the czech republic, as the commissioner may be aware, a public debate is being opened on the prohibition of fur farms, that is, the treatment of animals only on the skin. the animals are bred and then commercially slaughtered for their skins only. i personally think that this form of business is unethical at the beginning of the 21st century, it is perceived as such by some member states of the european union and it is also already prohibited in a third of the countries of the european union. the entrepreneurs who do this move to countries whose legal systems still allow this type of business. i wanted to take this opportunity to call on the european commission to address this issue and possibly consider a comprehensive regulation that would lead to the restriction or prohibition of what i believe to be an unethical way of doing business.
madam president, i fully support the setting—up of the task force mediterranean to identify lines of action and to prevent such incidents as the deaths of thousands of migrants in the mediterranean sea from occurring in the future. we must protect those who are in need and are seeking political asylum and send back economic migrants. we also have to prevent a further loss of life in the future by targeting the criminal networks of people smugglers and traffickers, addressing the root causes of illegal migration and improving avenues for legal migration. in order to address the causes of illegal migration we must increase the political dialogue with countries of origin and cooperate on a crisis prevention system. in reality, the european union does not have a real crisis response management system for situations like this migration which is flooding europe.
in writing. ‒ the visa information system report established the vis as a system for the exchange of visa data between member states. the purpose of establishing this system is to improve the methods of implementing the common visa policy and to contribute to strengthening internal security and the fight against terrorism under clearly defined and supervised conditions. this initiative is thus a key point in the european union's policies for establishing an area of justice, freedom and security. another argument in favour of this system is the need for the competent services to have the most comprehensive and up-to-date information in their fields of competence in the fight against terrorism and other serious crime. it is therefore important to designate the competent authorities of the member states which are authorised to access the vis for specific purposes to prevent, detect and investigate terrorist offences. i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is essential to have clear policies that contribute to strengthening internal security and the fight against terrorism.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the rapporteur's position on access to the visa information system (vis) for consultation by the designated authorities of the member states and by europol for the purpose of preventing, detecting and investigating terrorist offences and other serious criminal offences.
in writing. ‒ this report represents the european parliament’s position on a draft council implementing decision which determines the date (1 september 2013) from which designated authorities and europol have access to the visa information system (vis) in accordance with council decision 2008/633/jha. this is the council’s second attempt to fix the date of effect of the council decision. its first attempt to fix the date of effect was successfully challenged by the european parliament before the court of justice of the european union because the council had failed to consult the parliament before adopting its implementing decision. the report itself is uncontroversial as the implementing decision merely confirms legally the date from which the member states’ designated authorities and europol have access to the vis under certain conditions, that access having already been established in the vis regulation and council decision 2008/633/jha. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i support the council’s draft regarding the consultation of the vis by authorities of member states and by europol in order to prevent and counter terrorist offences and other serious criminal offences.
in writing. ‒ the visa information system (vis) allows schengen states to exchange visa data. it consists of a central it system and of a communication infrastructure that links this central system to national systems. i have voted for this report that has for its purpose to facilitate the checking and the issuance of visas, the fight against abuses, the protection of travellers, support with asylum applications and the enhancing of security.
in writing. ‒ this report represents the european parliament’s position on a draft council implementing decision which determines 1 september 2013, as the date from which designated authorities and europol have access to the visa information system (vis) in accordance with council decision 2008/633/jha. even though the council decision from 2008, laid down in articles 5 and 6, sets out the conditions under which the designated authorities in the member states and europol were entitled to have access to the vis, the exact date of effect of that decision was dependent on the full implementation of vis regulation (ec) 767/2008. as all the necessary procedures have now been complied with, it has become possible to fix the date of from which the member states’ designated authorities and europol have access to the vis under certain conditions. the current report, which i voted in favour of, legally confirms the chosen date of 1 september 2013.
in writing. ‒ this draft amending budget concerns a revision of the forecasts for traditional own resources, value added tax bases and gross national income (gni), seeking solutions for the budgeting of the relevant corrections for the united kingdom, as well as their financing, following the result of a change in the distribution of their contribution to the eu budget between the member states. at european parliament level, it was noted that, compared to the current year's budget, national contributions to the budget, which are based on gni, could be reduced by eur 2,26 billion due to higher than expected revenues from traditional own resources, which amount to eur 1 133,5 million. i voted in favour of the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 6/2015 of the european union for the financial year 2015, as this technical adjustment of the revenue side of the eu budget is very well founded on the latest statistical developments and in line with the agreed allocation between member states.
in writing. ‒ i appreciate that draft amending budget no 6/2015 covers the creation of two new budget lines for the support expenditure for trust funds managed by the european commission in the policy areas 'development and cooperation' and 'enlargement' and i consider this technical adaptation of the revenue side of the eu budget to be well founded.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 6/2015 mostly concerns a technical adjustment to the revenue side of the eu budget which is soundly based on the latest statistical developments and in line with the agreed distribution between member states. there is no impact on the expenditure side of the 2015 budget. due to a revision of the forecast of traditional own resources (i.e. customs duties and sugar sector levies), vat and gni bases, the budgeting of the relevant corrections concerning the united kingdom, as well as their financing, there is a need for a change in the distribution between member states’ contributions to the eu budget. compared to the initial 2015 budget, national contributions to the budget based on gni can be reduced by eur 2.26 billion due to higher than expected revenues from traditional own resources of eur 1 133.5 million and the budgeting of the 2014 surplus (through amending budget 3/2015). i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ firstly, this concerns a revision of the forecast of traditional own resources, vat and gni bases, the budgeting of the relevant corrections concerning the united kingdom, and their financing – resulting in a change in the distribution among member states of their contribution to the union budget. secondly, this technical adjustment to the revenue side of the union budget is based on the latest statistical developments and in line with the agreed distribution among member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report that consists of a revision of the forecast of traditional own resources, vat and gni bases, the budgeting of the relevant corrections concerning the united kingdom, as well as their financing, thereby resulting in a change in the distribution between member states of their contribution to the european union budget.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 6/2015 is a technical adjustment to the revenue side of the eu budget, following the revision of the forecast of traditional own resources (customs duties, levies and vat), and gni bases. this revision changes the distribution of the member states’ contributions to the eu budget. in practice, this adjustment reduces the national contribution, based on the gni, by eur 2.26 billion, as a result of higher than expected revenues from the traditional own resources. dab 6/2015 also includes the creation of two budget lines intended to receive compensation for management costs related to the eu trust funds for external actions, as well as an amendment to the establishment plan of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications (berec). because dab 6/2015 is a technical adjustment, it has no impact on the expenditure side of the eu 2015 budget. for this reason i voted in support of the report.
in writing. ‒ the draft amending budget envisages managing the refugee crisis by adopting budgetary measures immediately under the european agenda on migration. as i have said before, i believe that solidarity must be the overriding principle in finding solutions to the migrant crisis, and we need to show our solidarity by taking budgetary measures to address this phenomenon, which is why i voted in favour of this project. the draft amending budget mobilises the flexibility instrument to provide the sum of eur 66,1 million in commitment appropriations for the measures to manage the migration crisis for the financial year 2015, and for the year 2016, the flexibility instrument will allocate related payment appropriations of eur 52,9 million and eur 13,2 million in 2017. the mobilisation of this instrument therefore highlights once again the urgent need for the union budget to be more flexible, precisely in order to be able to manage crisis situations in the spirit and in accordance with the values promoted by the union.
in writing. ‒ i consider that the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument above the ceilings of the multiannual financial framework (mff) to supplement the financing provided for in the general budget of the union for the financial year 2015 for measures to manage the refugee and migration crisis with eur 66,1 million in commitment appropriations is a solution for the financing of measures to manage the refugee crisis.
in writing. ‒ the flexibility instrument has been mobilised to finance support for measures for managing the refugee crisis, and was proposed together with draft amending budget (dab) no 7/2015. the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument partially covers the amount requested in dab no 7/2015 (eur 66.1 million out of eur 401.3 million; in commitment appropriations) this mobilisation concerns an amount of eur 66.1 million in commitment appropriation beyond the annual ceiling of heading 3 (security and citizenship) under the multiannual financial framework (mff) 2014-2020. the payment appropriations corresponding to the proposed mobilisation of the flexibility instrument are eur 52.9 million in 2016 and eur 13.2 million in 2017. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i salute the decision of parliament and the council on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for immediate budgetary measures under the european agenda on migration. however, it is of great importance that the european union’s budget becomes more flexible in order to be able to mobilise when needed.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report that will allow adequate financing of important and urgent political priorities of the european union, particularly immediate budgetary measures under the european agenda on migration.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this initiative which allows the allocation of eur 66.1 million in commitment appropriations under heading 3, security and citizens for the financial year 2015 to continue funding measures in the field of migration, as the money foreseen for crisis management is not sufficient. i am not against managing the refugee crisis that will face the winter season on european territory, but these financial resources are normally provided as resources to be spent for unforeseeable situations. when the doors of europe opened, the costs of supporting the wave of immigrants were not properly budgeted, and now we all, whether we like it or not, have to pay for some decisions we didn't agree with. this migrant crisis is not an unpredictable phenomenon.
in writing. ‒ this proposal is linked to draft amending budget (dab) no 7/2015. it allows mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for an amount of eur 66.1 million beyond the ceiling of heading 3, to finance the measures included in dab 7/2015. that means in practice that payment appropriations corresponding to the proposed mobilisation will be eur 52.9 million in 2016 and eur 13.2 million in 2017. i welcome the fact that the council adopted the commission position on the use of the flexibility instrument unmodified on 8 october. this action clearly shows that member states have finally understood the urgency of tackling the migration crisis europe is experiencing. the adoption of the current report in the plenary now paves the way for the reallocation of 160 000 refugees across all member states.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the european commission's swift response to the current refugee crisis and believe that the european parliament must act in a timely manner, in line with its budgetary responsibilities, to tackle the root causes of the migration and refugee crisis.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget (dab) no 7/2015 aims to reinforce the eu’s resources to deal with the current refugee and migrant crisis allowing swift implementation on the ground. dab 7/2015 proposes increasing commitment appropriations by eur 401.3 million, to be distributed as follows:• eur 100 million for the asylum, migration and integration fund (eur 80 million) and the internal security fund (eur 20 million) as emergency assistance to the most affected eu member states;• eur 1.3 million to increase staffing by 120 posts in the three relevant eu front line agencies (frontex, the european asylum support office (easo) and europol);• eur 300 million to the european neighbourhood instrument (contribution to the eu regional trust fund in response to the syrian crisis). furthermore dab 7/2015 proposes increasing payment appropriations for an amount of eur 57 million (eur 55.7 million for humanitarian aid and eur 1.3 million for the abovementioned agencies) which is to be covered through redeployment. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i strongly agree that the commission’s measures have to be met with initiatives aimed at addressing the root causes of the refugee crisis. the commission’s rapid response to the current crisis should be acknowledged. i would like to further salute the commitment of member states to mobilise eur 1 billion in order to tackle the humanitarian situation. however, i believe that the commission must take further steps regarding this crisis by truly helping countries of origin to stabilise.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report that foresees the reinforcement of emergency assistance provided under the asylum, integration and migration fund (amif), and provides for 120 additional posts to increase capacity as follows: 60 posts for frontex, 30 for easo and 30 for europol, for 2015.
in writing. ‒ considering that europe today faces one of the biggest crises in its recent history, i am glad that the european union and the european parliament acted fast in order to reduce the gap between the financial needs and the resources available. the fast-track amendment of the eu budget to provide emergency assistance to the eu member states affected, to tackle critical underfunding and staffing problems in front-line eu agencies dealing with migration, and to provide assistance and humanitarian aid in third countries hosting refugees, was an imperative. however, the recourse to the flexibility instrument in this case also highlights the need to revise the eu budget for the future. in order to be able to respond to the migration and refugee crisis and to help stabilise the countries of origin, a long-term financial framework is needed.
in writing. – draft amending budget (dab) no 7/2015 concerns the allocation of eur 401.3 million for tackling the refugee crisis by financing the reallocation of 160 000 refugees in europe. dab 7/2015 includes eur 100 million designated to enhanced solidarity and responsibility-sharing among member states in handling the large number of incoming refugees; eur 300 million for helping neighbouring countries to tackle the crisis in a more efficient and humane way; and eur 1.3 million for increasing the staffing levels at the agencies working on the front line (frontex, the european asylum support office and europol). moreover, eur 55.7 million in payment appropriations have been secured for humanitarian aid in order to ensure immediate help to refugees in need. i voted in favour of this report as it will improve the ability of member states to deal with the large influx of refugees, migrants and asylum seekers into the eu. at the same time i believe we must continue looking for efficient and effective ways to tackle such situations in the future. as long as war and poverty remains a daily reality in so many parts of the world, europe will continue to attract persons wanting a better life. we must be able to have the means to aid them.
in writing. ‒ the case was discussed in committee throughout several months in order to understand it in detail. all phases of the procedure were strictly followed according to the rules (exchange of views, hearing and consideration of draft report) and included as well a hearing of judicial hungarian authorities. the report was voted in committee on monday 12.10.2015, and according to the rules of procedure it needs to be put to the vote during the first plenary session following the committee vote. the juri committee, considering all conditions were met, voted to waive immunity. i voted in favour of waiving immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report on the basis of the evaluation made by the juri committee.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of approving the appointment of iliyana tsanova for the position of deputy managing director of the efsi.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the appointment of the deputy managing director of efsi based on the evaluation and the discussion in the budgets committee.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of approving the appointment of wilhelm molterer for the position of managing director of the efsi.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the appointment of the managing director of efsi based on the evaluation and the discussion in the budgets committee.
in writing. ‒ climate change is currently a global threat that requires urgent attention, with irreversible potential for human societies and the biosphere. in this context, there is an urgent need to address this issue at international level. moreover, the seriousness of the threats posed by climate change should be a major concern, especially as the planet is far from limiting global warming to below 2 degrees celsius relative to pre-industrial levels. governments must take concrete and binding action to combat climate change and work towards a highly ambitious and legally binding agreement in paris in 2015. i voted in favour of the report on a new international paris agreement on climate change because the paris conference is not just a test meeting, but a decision meeting, and this conference symbolizes a decisive step in the negotiation of a new global climate agreement, which will enter into force in 2020.
in writing. ‒ the scenario of a race to the bottom for the most basic resources could become a reality in the near future, unless we implement concrete policies to combat climate change. i welcome the idea of a new international agreement on climate change, which would become effective and immediately applicable by reducing greenhouse gas emissions and keeping the temperature rise below 2°c. the imposition of emission restrictions on pollutants on states that did not have the same economic start as those that went through the industrial revolution is a constantly debated topic. but how much progress can we make if we don't have the resources and the environment to grow the economy? the answer can only be found in a circular and sustainable economy, as we have a moral duty to keep the planet functional for future generations. i believe that global solidarity is needed to achieve a new agreement on climate change and to take over the decisions taken without delay. i therefore support the pargneaux report on the proposed international paris agreement on climate change.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the european union must continue and intensify its diplomatic efforts to better understand the positions of partner countries, to encourage them to pursue ambitious policies to combat climate change and to build alliances in support of this ambition.
in writing. ‒ we are all aware of the fact that climate change is a reality: around the world, the impacts of climate change are accelerating, and the most vulnerable countries are already paying the higher price. last september, the conclusions of the intergovernmental panel on climate change were published, and the debate about the human influence on the climate is now over: we are responsible for warming the earth. luckily, next november is rapidly approaching. we have never had a better opportunity than the upcoming cop21 to tackle the tremendous danger of climate change. this is the greatest challenge that we must face: we must face it with the greatest ambition. next november, in paris, not only the european citizens, but more than 7 billion people will ask us to be brave and our choices to be bold. they will ask us to go beyond our differences and our doubts, and to chart a new course together. much has to be done in paris, but if we are able to make the climate agreement a reality, our generation will not be remembered as the one that destroyed the world, but as the one who finally came to respect it.
in writing. ‒ getting off coal as a source of electricity by 2030 would help to limit global warming considerably. however, the targets for the phase-out of coal are too steep and member states whose industries rely heavily on coal production will suffer both economically and in terms of employment. a programme of phasing out both fossil fuels and coal as a source of electricity should be initiated, along with a re-engineering to reduce emissions. in addition, there is no flexibility for member states to determine their own combination of different types of energy according to specific conditions.
in writing. ‒ the threats induced by climate change are serious and we must be concerned that the world is far from being on track to limit global warming. a stable climate system is important for food security, energy production, water and sanitation, and the preservation of biodiversity and terrestrial and marine ecosystems.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting this report because although i support concrete measures against climate change i believe that countries should be helped in making this transition towards clean energy. this transition implies a good and fair energy mix for all countries but also investment in technologies reducing carbon emissions for the classical energy resources.
in writing. ‒ everyone's attention is on the last round of negotiations before the 21st united nations climate change conference, which starts on 30 november. both the global economy and the well-being and health of our people will depend on how governments respond to humanity's greatest challenge, global warming. the key element of these negotiations is financing: we need 100 billion dollars a year to be transferred to developing countries. this amount will enable them to develop projects aimed at protecting at-risk communities facing the effects of climate change. right now, the green climate fund is only $10.4 billion in the hole, which is absolutely not enough. that is why i hope that the paris meeting will not become a mere negotiating meeting. certain decisions need to be taken at this juncture that will allow investors to refocus their investments towards resilient, low-carbon economies. only through a global agreement can we achieve a fair price for carbon across the major economies and encourage the development of climate-friendly economic and technological solutions.
mr president, first of all i think it is a little early to be discussing 6 november, we are still in october. i know that on the communist side, we think of birthdays very early, but we mustn't rush things. besides, i don't think that's a topic for discussion here; i know that this is being discussed in spain, and in other countries too, but i do not think that this is a subject for discussion in the european parliament. i don't see the connection. perhaps if there was an exchange within the delegation for relations with the maghreb countries; but we should discuss it there first.
finally, the european union is taking an important step towards stopping the practice of transnational companies avoiding paying taxes in the member states where they carry out their economic activity. by means of the mandatory automatic exchange of information, each member state will be able to react when another member state adopts letters of comfort or transfer pricing arrangements which affect the interests of another member state. i have only one regret: that in this european parliament, in previous years, my colleagues and i personally have raised the need for such measures and it took an international scandal to get to this draft directive. thank you, rapporteurs, thank you, commission, for that directive.
mr president, i welcome the agreement, signed on 27 may 2015, between the european union and switzerland on the automatic exchange of financial account information, which will improve international tax cooperation and compliance. switzerland is a key player, and the agreement is a significant step in our efforts to clamp down on tax fraud and tax evasion. i believe that the automatic exchange of financial accounts between the european union and switzerland, starting from 2018, will address situations where a taxpayer seeks to hide capital, representing income or assets for which taxes have not been paid. also, i think it is very important that the agreement gives the ability to tax administrations in the member states and in switzerland to identify correctly the taxpayers concerned, as well as to administer and enforce their tax laws in cross-border situations. at the same time i hope this will help authorities to better assess the likelihood of tax evasion being committed and, in some cases, stop unnecessary investigations.
mr president, i want to stress from the outset that europe has a great opportunity for tourism, but unfortunately there are still many barriers, and one of the barriers was this outdated directive. i think that what has been achieved now is certainly not ideal, but the proposal that we have heard here, from both the rapporteur and my colleague evelyne, to review it in three years' time is welcome. i strongly believe that legislation must be adapted to the new situation. i believe that a balance must be struck, and has largely been struck, between consumer protection and the possibility for small agencies, small hotels, to develop their tourism business; and i also believe that subsidiarity and proportionality must be respected. i want to congratulate her, because it was a very difficult report, a report long awaited by the tourism industry, and i think it is very necessary to explain some of the terms that now appear in this legislative amendment, terms that create confusion and that often made travellers unable to defend themselves in cases created by non-compliance with the conditions of the contract. i congratulate her and hope that in three years we can have an even better report.
mr president, the travel package proposal represents a positive solution for consumers and businesses. i strongly support more effective rules on insolvency protection for travellers in case of the trader’s insolvency, stricter liability of traders in case of the under—performance of their package, improved pre—contractual information requirements and termination rights, and better protection in cases where the traveller’s return is impossible because of unavoidable and extraordinary circumstances. i believe that the compromise reached after a difficult negotiation regarding the definitions of linked travel arrangements and travel packages represents a satisfactory result. it is very important that the definition of linked travel arrangements has been widened in order to ensure adequate protection for travellers. moreover, i welcome the obtainment by parliament of an appropriate review process, by 2018, of these definitions by the commission, accompanied if necessary by legislative proposals, in order to verify ‘whether an adjustment or broadening of the definition of travel packages is appropriate’.
in writing. the sharing economy and the use of online commerce have transformed the way trips are planned and purchased. despite these trends, eu legislation dating back to 1990 does not reflect consumer behaviour today. the lack of adaptation of the legislative framework entails the creation of 'grey areas' where many packages will no longer fall within the scope of the rules. the proposal for a directive seeks to update the rules on the scope of protection of travellers. it also seeks to clarify the definitions of packages of services and the information made available to the consumer when booking and purchasing these services. as co-chair of the intergroup on tourism development and member of the european parliament's committee on transport and tourism, i can only support the new rules, which will increase transparency in the market and strengthen consumer protection in relation to online travel packages. we must continue our efforts to maintain the competitiveness of the tourism industry at european level. the adoption and implementation of this directive will bring us one step closer to this objective.
mr president, i fully support the revision of this regulation, which aims to contribute to the elimination of the death penalty worldwide and prevent torture through eu—wide controls on the export of torture goods and drugs used for lethal injections. the revision includes adding export licensing controls for lethal drugs and prohibiting trade in new items which have become regularly used for torture by certain regimes, for example spiked buttons, electric shock sleeves and cuffs. the so—called catch-all clause will make it binding for customs authorities to seize any goods, whether or not they are listed in the regulation annexes, if there are reasonable grounds to believe that their final use will be for the purpose of torture. finally, i welcome the establishment of a union general export authorisation for countries that have undertaken international commitments and the use of the urgency procedure to amend the list of banned controlled items, which will allow the eu to react more quickly to emerging threats and human rights crackdowns in the future.
direct democracy, on the athenian model, is not as archaic as one might think. the european citizens' initiative is our modern tool to increase citizen participation in decision-making. 51 initiatives were submitted, representing no less than six million european citizens who are engaged, informed and willing to fight to change the europe in which they live. however, we must not have a false image. only three initiatives have been considered admissible and none has produced applicable legislation to date. now, what we need to do is increase the success rate of these initiatives. so by upgrading the online signature collection system and increasing public awareness of the issues, we can increase the success rate. besides, the solution is young people. young people are more aware of the society in which they live than we think. their participation in decision-making could be the nice surprise that the younger generation brings to europe. that is why i am in favour of lowering the age limit from 18 to 16 from what it is now. we can turn the experience of the past into the success of the future, including by harnessing the potential of young people to participate actively and decisively in european decision-making.
in writing. the eci was seen as a triumph of the lisbon treaty because it opened up the chance for european citizens to become initiators of legislation and active participants in european policy-making. three years after its entry into force, this instrument is disappointing. the bureaucratic, lawyer-like approach of the ec risks producing the opposite effect, contributing to the alienation of citizens from europe. the ep has played an important role in promoting eci legislation, and now, once again, the ep is taking the initiative to change the regulation. the eu must become a political construct and therefore open to the ideas and proposals of its citizens. this imperative must be understood by eu bureaucrats, but also by member states who must facilitate the whole eci procedure instead of putting up additional administrative obstacles. i hope that the schöpflin report, which contains clear proposals to improve the eci regulation, will be adopted by a large majority in the ep. the amendment proposal that the ec has to submit to the ep and the council must demonstrate an understanding that the eu is at a crossroads. either we learn to listen to the voice of our citizens and then we will succeed, or we continue to distance ourselves from european citizens and are thus doomed to failure.
i would ask your permission not to accept questions under the 'blue card' procedure because we are ahead of schedule.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the mr president, i would first like to congratulate my colleague, mr charles goerens, on the preparation of this report on the long-term lessons we can learn from the ebola crisis. i met last week with the representative of an ngo in sierra leone, an organization that originally worked in the field of education, but found itself in the middle of the ebola crisis doing community prevention to prevent the spread of the disease. the latter said something very true: this crisis has served to reveal all the weaknesses of the health systems of the countries affected. and i would add that it has also served to reveal the inadequacies of our action. for this reason we must support the strengthening of the health systems of the affected countries, and i stress here that our action must be long-term and that we must keep our promises on funding.
mr president, the 2014 ebola epidemic has been the largest in history, affecting multiple countries in west africa. more than 23 000 people were infected and 9 000 are dead. healthcare workers have been infected while treating patients suffering from the ebola virus. the eu and its member states directed eur 1.2 billion from eu funds for the development of both treatments and vaccines. good outbreak control and crisis management relies on applying interventions such as case management, surveillance and contact tracing, mobile laboratory service, training for health workers and also social mobilisation. improving the health system and raising awareness could be an effective way to reduce human transmission. even though the eu has expressed solidarity and support, we could do much more to save people in west africa from this tragic disease.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 27 october 2015. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. ebola and other such epidemics are transnational threats that do not take into account borders, which requires the closest possible international cooperation to determine the causes of this crisis, develop new treatments for neglected diseases, and strengthen national health systems and facilitate transfers of results to the population concerned. on the other hand, adequate safeguards are needed to prevent public-private partnerships from harming vulnerable people in an unregulated market, which is why i support the world health organisation's proposal to revise the international health regulation to introduce the idea of interdependent responsibility. in addition, we must not forget that there is a risk of a food crisis following the epidemic, which has had devastating effects on small farmers. as such, they support the need for closer cooperation between the commission, member states and the international community and investment in their long-term development, in order not to jeopardise the future of family farms and food security in west africa.
as announced by the president at the opening of the sitting, the bureau has this evening considered the appeal lodged by mr korwin-mikke and mr buonanno and confirmed the sanctions imposed on the two members. those sanctions are therefore applicable as of tomorrow.
the next item is the joint debate on the report of mr ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013 (com (2014) 0510 - c8-0208/2014 - 2014/2132 (dec) (a8-0283/2015)) and the report of mr ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2013 (com (2014) 0510 - c8-0201/2014 - 2014/2125 (dec)) (a8-0282/2015) and the report of mr ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2013 (com (2014) 0510 - c8-0208/2014 - 2014/2132 (dec) (a8-0282/2015)) and the general report of the council on the implementation of the budget of the european union for the financial year 2013 (com (2014) 05108 - c8-026214 (dec) (a8-0282145) (com (2014) 051080) and the general report of mr ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2013 (a8-02021/2014) (com (2014) (a8-0280) (a8-0280) and the general report of the european council on discharge in respect of the implementation of the implementation of the budget of the budget of the joint undertaking for the european union for the financial year (central) (a8/201
member of the commission.– mr president, i am here on behalf of my colleague, commissioner kristalina georgieva. the commission takes note of the proposal submitted by the committee on budgetary control to the plenary to grant discharge to the joint technology initiative on embedded computing systems (the artemis joint undertaking) and the joint technology initiative on nanoelectronics (eniac), the european institute of innovation and technology (eit), and to refuse discharge to the council for the financial year 2013. the commission is happy to note that parliament’s committee on budgetary control agrees that the ecsel joint undertaking (ju), which is the successor of artemis and eniac, has implemented actions to address the remarks of the budgetary authorities, and that it therefore proposes to grant discharge for the year 2013. eniac and artemis have convincingly demonstrated that public-private partnerships, using a tripartite model that pools together member state and eu funding with industrial investments, deliver important results such as leading edge low-power electronic chips and worldwide standards for software platforms for cars. these give industry in europe a clear competitive advantage and increase its capacity to grow, as was illustrated by the high industrial investment in these partnerships. both initiatives have had a very high leverage factor – every euro from the public side has resulted in an investment of at least eur 3 by industry in the two initiatives. eniac and artemis therefore provide a unique opportunity and an effective means for industry, member states and the eu to closely cooperate across europe. this creates a critical mass for electronic components and systems that is of vital importance for the digital future of europe. the initiatives have financed more than 3 000 of europe’s best engineers and researchers in the field every year. their work helps sustain at least 80 000 jobs in europe per year. in the horizon 2020 framework programme, eniac ju and artemis ju are merged in a new ju on electronic components and systems for european leadership (ecsel). in ecsel a structural solution is found for verifications and ex-post audits of new expenditure. in the draft resolution, the commission is asked to carry out an evaluation to assess the activities of eniac and artemis to be considered for the 2014 discharge exercise. the commission intends to reconcile this request with the ecsel regulation. the ecsel regulation provides that the commission will conduct an interim evaluation of ecsel that will include the final evaluation of eniac and artemis by 30 june 2017. to conduct separate evaluations on the very same projects would put a considerable administrative burden on the beneficiaries and the commission. finally, i would like to reiterate that the commission will provide advice and full support to ecsel in its continued efforts to address the concerns of the european parliament. the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) has made significant improvements in the areas identified in the april parliament decision. on the legality and regularity of its transactions, the eit has reformed its audit methodologies, the eit knowledge and innovation community grant guidelines and procurement capacities and procedures. as a result, the combined error rate for the 2014 grants is only 0.9%. the eit has also taken extensive measures to improve its planning and monitoring. finally, we would like to note that the winner of this year’s eit change award, mr govinda upadhyay, was selected as a finalist in the forbes’ 30 under 30 social entrepreneurs competition. this is precisely the kind of impact that the eit was designed to create. as for discharge to the council, the commission regrets that a suitable solution has not been found between the two arms of the budgetary authority in this dispute lasting now for six years. the commission considers that the institutions should cooperate for a smoother functioning of this procedure. the commission hopes that this issue will be solved in a suitable manner for both institutions.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, joint ventures are extremely important for research and development. they have large amounts of money to manage, both in terms of expenditure and results. artemis and eniac have received a qualified opinion from the court of auditors for three consecutive years. the delay in unloading has produced improvements in activity. the recommendations of the european parliament have been implemented. i hope there's not another opinion with reservations for 2014. the epp group will vote for discharge but will be following the 2014 report very closely. i think there needs to be more transparency and a very careful evaluation of the results. i call on the commission to submit a preliminary report on the work of artemis and eniac 1 and i welcome the commission's commitment to produce this report. the new ecsel structure is already one year old and we need to know exactly where it started. the long duration of the projects should not be a reason for postponing the report. a preliminary assessment of the use of european funds and the private contribution is absolutely necessary. as for the discharge for the council, i think we need to come to a concrete result. the refusal to grant discharge for a long period of time has not brought any result. we have a responsibility to the people to come up with a solution. otherwise, the discharge procedure can be said to be not serious.
the joint debate has been closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 27 october 2015.
the next item on the agenda is a minute's speech on important political issues (rule 163).
mr president, here in strasbourg we are far away from the realities of local roma, far from the day-to-day struggle for survival. here, we cannot imagine what it is like to gather scrap or plastics in order to afford lunch or dinner on the table for your kid. oftentimes there is only one choice: lunch or dinner, because a working day will not pay more than eur 10 to eur 15 for a family of 3 to 5 persons. yes, the children also go out to gather scraps. twelve years ago, when roma migrated to france and switzerland, local people were shocked. they did not understand what was going on; people probably thought that roma or gypsies lived in huge palaces and did not understand why they left them behind. this is why they sent people to see what can be done in europe. there is something we can do to make a real change for the roma. we are focusing too much on the national level and there are too many levels down to the local one. as we all know, the decentralisation process is slow and has not paid off much by now. what we can do is target the regional and local level directly and have the local people as the main funding opportunities managers, because they know best what their needs are and what should be done in order to improve social inclusion for the roma community.
mr president, this month, in the midst of the refugee crisis, the council of ministers of justice and home affairs of the union met, a meeting at which romanians hoped to take the decision to accept their country into the schengen area. as has happened every time in the last five years, this time too the subject was removed from the agenda to avoid being vetoed by some member states. instead, while romanians are constantly denied access to schengen, the governments of those same countries, under the pretext of solidarity, are trying to force other europeans to accept mandatory quotas of refugees. it is regrettable that the combination of the two events shows that our european partners prefer eastern migrants to those who, like them, have a european value system, education, culture and traditions. please don't think me inhuman when i speak like this. such signals do nothing but call our attention to the fact that the european project must return to the concept of equal and sovereign cooperation between european nations and stop trying to impose decisions. i have all the compassion and willingness to help those in the east who are struck by the horrors of war but, until then, i have the duty to ensure that the romanian nation is treated by its partners as an equal to the other european nations. i think so because i am first of all a romanian, then a european citizen and finally a citizen of the world.
mr president, with the measures taken to resolve the refugee crisis, the european union is in a position to seek solutions to new problems, some that we are tackling now, others that we may face in the future. in addition to the new situations created in the economic, social and cultural spheres, we must also take the public health field into account with the utmost responsibility. we need to rethink and adjust european health policies so that any event in this area, from vaccination schedules to the outbreak of an epidemic, can be dealt with with the appropriate response in the shortest possible time. i would also like to call on the european commission to allocate funds for the modernisation, re-technologisation and optimum functioning of microbiology and virology institutes in the european union, given their strategic value in researching, developing and marketing the serums and vaccines needed in the event of spontaneous epidemics.
mr president, the scandal over the disappearance of a billion dollars from the banking system of the republic of moldova, the sincere dissatisfaction of the citizens with the unresolved problems in society, but also the interests to destabilise the situation coming from the east - all this is putting to the test both the government coalition and moldova's european path. i hope that the situation created by the detention of the former moldovan prime minister, one of the founders of the alliance for european integration, will not lead to the disintegration of the pro-european government coalition, and that the people's dissatisfaction will not change the pro-european option of the leadership of the republic of moldova. at the moment, the stability of the government coalition needs to be maintained. i also believe that the european union should continue to support the republic of moldova in strengthening the european partnership and i firmly believe that romania will remain the main supporter of the european path of the republic of moldova.
this item on the agenda has been closed.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure. madam reda, i congratulate you first of all on your conclusion by supporting this report. and i support him. the question i want to ask you is: do you think we need a guarantee from the commissioner here that the 2017 deadline will not be missed? because patrizia and others have asked this question. i would like to know whether you think it is important for the commission to commit itself to ensuring that the long-awaited deadline for the european union's internal market is not missed.
mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate all those who, on behalf of parliament, negotiated this agreement with the member states and succeeded in having, on the one hand, the roaming surcharge eliminated and, on the other hand, guarantees for net neutrality introduced into european union legislation. the overcharging of calls, sms and data roaming within the european union will be eliminated by 15 june 2017, after a transition period, and the price reduction may be up to 4 times less than what some consumers pay today. as regards net neutrality, i would like to stress that there have been no binding pan-european rules on net neutrality so far. for the first time, the principle of neutrality will be enshrined in 28 national legal systems. internet service providers across europe will have to treat all internet traffic equally, without discrimination, restriction or interference and regardless of who is the sender or receiver of the content, applications or services used. once again, congratulations to the negotiators of the european parliament!
we have two colleagues who have applied for blue cards. i would ask you very much to understand the situation and to move forward with the debate as we are very late. do you accept this situation, mr. breton and mr. frunzulica? thank you very much. i know it's not exactly what you need, but we have to make a compromise.
thank you, mrs gál. i remember, speaking of the route, someone told me that this route was also used by the armies that besieged vienna in the late 1600s.
in writing. it is increasingly clear that migration to europe will not be a temporary phenomenon, but that we will have to deal with the fact that huge numbers of people want to settle in our countries on a permanent basis. this challenge challenges our societies, our supply chains, our border control systems and can be a source of political instability. meanwhile, i see that our citizens are confused by this phenomenon because we haven't talked to them about it. we didn't tell them that world politics could come to their towns and villages and we can't or won't stop it. so many now feel that they are left alone with their problems and that their views are not being taken into account by their political leaders. these people will seek out the parties and politicians who offer simple answers to these problems, promise them solutions, and in return they will ask for their votes. and the consequences will be far more far-reaching in terms of the migration crisis, so i think we need to have a sensible policy and concrete measures now to deal with this situation. i wish the leaders of the member states wisdom and courage in this regard.
in writing. ‒ the common agricultural policy is a set of rules and mechanisms at european union level which regulates the production and marketing of agricultural products in the european area, with particular attention to rural development. the european union has the right to ensure that the common agricultural policy functions in the best possible way so that member states can develop and produce high-quality food, help combat climate change and maintain agricultural diversity. i voted in favour of this report on community legislation which needs to be updated by repealing acts which are no longer applicable, because it is very important that union legislation on the common agricultural policy is transparent, clear and provides security for all european states.
in writing. ‒ as increasing the transparency of union legislation is an essential element of the better regulation strategy implemented by the union institutions, i consider it appropriate to repeal those legislative acts which have ceased to produce real effects.
in writing. ‒ the proposal aims at repealing council directive 76/621/eec and council regulation (ec) no 320/2006 related to the common agricultural policy, which are based on articles 42 and 43(2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. certain legal acts adopted in the last decades no longer have continued relevance, either because their content has been taken up by subsequent acts or due to their temporary character. in accordance with the inter-institutional agreement on better law—making, european union law should be updated and condensed by removing acts which are no longer applied, in order to improve transparency and certainty.
in writing. ‒ a vote for bringing clarity to the legal maze of the eu through the abandonment of obsolete and useless legal acts still in force for no good or valid reason.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report that will repeal council directive 76/621/eec and council regulation (ec) no 320/2006 taking into consideration that both acts have become obsolete since the content of council directive 76/621/eec was taken up by the subsequent regulation (ec) no 1881/2006, while council regulation 320/2006 only established a temporary scheme which is no longer applicable.
in writing. ‒ european legislation needs to be renewed at certain times. the treaty of lisbon has created new mechanisms through which the european parliament can act to update european documents. in some areas, scientific research is discovering new methods and products, which are creating the conditions for changes in favour of european consumers. one of these areas is the common agricultural policy. it is clear that european agricultural policy, which has been in the making since the dawn of the european era, must be regulated in accordance with the imperatives of the present. it should be borne in mind that a number of compounds and chemicals found in agricultural products can adversely affect the development of individuals who consume them without being aware of the dangers to which they are exposed. it is the task of the experts in the field to inform us of the existence of such dangers. our mission is to pass legislation that protects the citizens who have placed their trust in us. for these reasons, i think it is necessary to support the document before us.
madam president, there are many people who try to hide income for which they have not paid taxes or do not want to pay taxes in the future. that's what tax evasion is. it is estimated that at european level, one trillion euros are lost in this way. under the agreement signed this year, as of 2018, the european union and switzerland will automatically exchange information on the financial accounts of their residents. the information exchanged shall include revenue, interest, dividends, account balances and proceeds from the sale of financial assets. this report proposes concrete measures to combat tax evasion, in particular by natural and legal persons domiciled in the european union, with the participation of financial institutions established in third countries. the report suggests mandatory disclosure of the full name and registration code. this leads to absolute transparency and reduces the risk of tax fraud or evasion.
in writing. ‒ the eu-switzerland agreement on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts was signed on 27 may 2015. this agreement plays a very important role at european level, because it improves cooperation in the tax field and brings the rules into compliance at international level. this agreement will be implemented from 2018 and seeks switzerland to apply enhanced measures equivalent to the eu directive and to comply with the automatic exchange of financial account information promoted by the 2014 global standards of the organisation for economic cooperation and development. by agreement, the financial administrations of the member states and switzerland will be able to correctly identify the taxpayers concerned and administer and enforce national tax laws. i voted in favour of this report because it is a mechanism to combat tax fraud and tax evasion which affects the economy of the european union and beyond.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the agreement signed on 27 may 2015 between the european union and switzerland on the automatic exchange of financial account information, which will improve international tax cooperation and compliance. switzerland is a key player and the agreement is a significant step in our efforts to clamp down on tax fraud and tax evasion. i believe that the automatic exchange on the financial accounts between the eu and switzerland, starting from 2018, will address situations where a taxpayer seeks to hide capital representing income or assets for which taxes have not been paid. also, i think it is very important that the agreement gives the ability to tax administrations in the member states and in switzerland to identify correctly the taxpayers concerned, as well as to administer and enforce their tax laws in cross-border situations. at the same time, i hope this will help authorities to better assess the likelihood of tax evasion being committed and, in some cases, stop unnecessary investigations.
in writing. ‒ a vote adding to the legal architecture of europe allowing the disciplining of financial transactions and limiting the scope for tax evasion and fraud.
in writing. ‒ the european union and switzerland signed an agreement on 27 may 2015 on the automatic exchange of financial account information, aimed at improving international tax cooperation and compliance. i voted for this report that will ensure that switzerland applies strengthened measures that are equivalent to the eu directive as upgraded in march 2014 and that it complies with the automatic exchange of financial account information promoted by the 2014 oecd global standards.
in writing. ‒ in order to effectively fight against fraud, tax avoidance and tax evasion, and to correctly limit those who would avoid paying the legal and proper taxes on their income, this report suggests a number of measures that i agree are necessary. it would extend to switzerland the strengthened measures to prevent fraudulent activities that are already applied in the eu, and would allow an automatic exchange of financial account information to prevent persons based in the eu from hiding their capital in the financial institutions of switzerland, exploiting its status as a non-member state. the oecd global standards that apply to this kind of information exchange would be respected in these cases, protecting the privacy of individuals who are adequately complying with union tax laws. additionally, this report provides a framework for preventing the use of non-member state financial institutions by eu-based persons and companies to avoid paying the appropriate taxes, which will need to be addressed in many countries, not only switzerland. again, i reiterate that steps need to be taken to continue to fight tax evasion and tax avoidance, and this report offers viable solutions.
in writing. ‒ the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts is a very important measure in the fight against tax evasion and a factor in increasing tax transparency. in this regard, since march 2015, there has been an ambitious proposal to establish an automatic exchange of financial account information between all member states of the european union, and in may 2015 an agreement was signed to this effect with switzerland, with the objective of improving tax cooperation and compliance. the commission notes that the swiss authorities have not provided any evidence that the taxpayer has not paid tax on the amount of the taxable income. the kofod report therefore intends to make certain improvements to this agreement in order to ensure maximum efficiency of this agreement. in this context, the report proposes: an unconditional exchange of information, the removal of the condition of exchange of information based on prior approval of the competent authorities, a quarterly frequency of exchanges. i therefore voted in favour of the kofod report on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts between the eu and switzerland.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the repeal of the savings tax directive because i believe that we need to have a tax economy that is as transparent and clear as possible. fair taxation is desired, both at european and international level. to achieve a healthy economy, we need sustainable economic growth, decreased inflation and poverty, both nationally and internationally, but these things can only be achieved through a simple, transparent and effective mechanism. the 2003 directive concerns the taxation of savings, requires the reporting of income in the form of interest on debt and applies to a large number of separate bilateral agreements between eu member states and overseas territories. this directive entered into force in 2005. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measure is compatible with the internal market. following the discussions, the commission proposed to repeal the 2003 directive so that member states avoid the inconvenience of dual data collection and reporting systems.
in writing. ‒ i support the need for the european executive to take the necessary measures to respect the time needed to review bilateral agreements between the eu and the five european non-eu countries (swiss confederation, principality of liechtenstein, republic of san marino, principality of monaco and principality of andorra) as well as with each of the member states and the 12 dependent or associated territories in order to avoid the emergence of loopholes for cross-border tax fraud and evasion or other inadvertencies in the transition to the new automatic exchange of information standard. i consider the role of parliament to be essential in the effort to reduce any possible loss of tax revenue by member states across the union.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the proposal to repeal the eu savings tax directive 2003/48/ec as we need to make sure that there is only one applicable standard for automatic exchange of information within the eu and to avoid any overlap between the savings directive and the amending directive on administrative cooperation that may result from their different approaches. whilst i support the repeal, i remain concerned about the potential for creation of loopholes if the separate bilateral agreements between the european union and five european countries that are not member states of the union (switzerland, liechtenstein, san marino, monaco and andorra) are not rapidly concluded. therefore, i consider it important that the commission report on the results of the repeal and on any potential loopholes that may arise, ensuring with all means that such loopholes are closed.
in writing. ‒ in 2003 the eu savings tax directive was adopted as a measure to ensure that tax is paid on the interest of savings, and the provisions became applicable in 2005. in the meantime the 2011 directive on administrative cooperation was revised to align it with the oecd’s global standard on automatic exchange of financial account information in tax matters and was adopted in 2014. i voted for this report that will repeal the 2003 savings tax directive so that member states do not have to apply the provisions in both directives, avoiding the inconvenience of double systems of collecting and reporting of data.
in writing. ‒ the directive on administrative cooperation that has been proposed by the commission seeks to update and simplify the taxation procedures that were applied according to the 2003 savings directive, a necessary process that has my support. part of this simplification involves fully repealing the prior legislation, as the contents have been renegotiated. if it is not repealed, there will be a period of double legislation. the commission should always seek to avoid such unnecessary and repetitive legislation, but in doing so there is a possibility of taxation loopholes opening up for this short period. this report proposes amendments that would ensure that the commission is closely monitoring the situation and reporting, under deadline, to the parliament and council on their findings. ultimately, i am in favour of legislation that seeks to limit burdensome bureaucracy, and this report does that while also respecting the important democratic role that the parliament plays in legislative decisions.
in writing. ‒ the 2003 eu savings tax directive was designed to ensure that tax is paid on the interest of savings. the directive was applied among eu countries and in separate agreements between eu countries and 12 overseas, and five non-eu european countries (switzerland, andorra, liechtenstein, monaco and san marino.) in 2014 the agreement was revised in order to tighten loopholes and align the directive with the oecd’s global standard. as part of its march 2015 tax transparency package, the commission proposed to repeal the 2003 savings tax directive, to enable member states to avoid the inconvenience of double systems of collecting and reporting of data. nevertheless, the repealing of an existing directive must take into consideration the need to uphold fair taxation across the eu. the current text gives consent to the proposed repeal, while asking the commission to monitor possible loopholes, use legislative proposals if needed to address them, and report back to the ep. i believe this report, which i voted in favour of, will address and reduce the risk of potential loss of tax revenue to member states across the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the authorised exchange of data on dactyloscopic data from sweden because cross-border cooperation is very beneficial for the member states and is also beneficial for protecting national legislation and helps to eradicate terrorism as well as strengthening the rule of law. the commission decision implementing decision 2008/615/jha provides that the automatic exchange of data is to be carried out on the basis of an evaluation report based on a pilot test, a questionnaire drawn up by the working group and an evaluation visit, which is to be carried out by the audit. sweden has taken all the necessary steps, i.e. it has applied the data protection questionnaire and the questionnaire on the exchange of dactyloscopic data.
in writing. ‒ considering the need to step up cross-border cooperation, particularly in combating terrorism and cross-border crime, and to strengthen cross-border law-enforcement cooperation in the eu, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ a vote adding sweden to the legal architecture of europe allowing the fighting of terrorism and organised crime while fully respecting human rights and the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report that will implement the council’s decision on the launch of automated data exchange with regard to dactyloscopic data in sweden.
in writing. ‒ ensuring the security of european citizens is one of the essential tasks of the european institutions. in order to achieve this, all necessary measures must be taken to avoid the risks inherent in the free movement of persons within the single european area enshrined in the schengen convention. at the same time, however, those measures must not lead to a restriction of the rights and freedoms of individuals, but must be implemented in full respect of european values. fingerprinting of persons entering the european area is one of those preventive measures necessary to ensure european security. although its application involves procedures more characteristic of the prevention of national and crossborder crime, its concrete results are likely to strengthen the database needed to prevent dangerous persons, for example terrorists, from gaining access to the european area. this does not, of course, preclude the entry of individuals who are not in the existing database, but it is a first step in prevention work. sweden is one of the countries affected by the phenomenon of extra-european migration which has intensified in recent months. in this context, closer cooperation with the other member states is needed to avoid the penetration of elements hostile to european values and of a terrorist nature.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament legislative resolution refers to the draft council implementing decision on the launch of automated data exchange with regard to dactyloscopic data in sweden. automated access to dactyloscopic data (fingerprints, latent fingerprints, etc.) is regulated in council decision 2008/615/jha on the stepping up of cross-border cooperation, particularly in the fight against terrorism and cross-border crime. the aim of this decision is to accelerate crossborder police and judicial cooperation between european union countries in criminal matters by improving the exchange of information between authorities with responsibilities for crime prevention and investigation. the launch of automated data exchange with regard to dactyloscopic data may only take place after the implementation of the general provisions on the protection of personal data in the national legislation of the member states. the verification of compliance with this condition shall be carried out on the basis of an evaluation report based on a questionnaire, an evaluation visit and a pilot test. those criteria have been successfully fulfilled by sweden, and the council has therefore given a favourable opinion to that country to receive and supply personal data for the purpose of automated searching of dactyloscopic data. by means of the legislative resolution, parliament approved this council decision.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the authorised exchange of data on dactyloscopic data from belgium because cross-border cooperation is very beneficial for protecting national legislation and helps both to eradicate terrorism and to strengthen the rule of law. the commission decision implementing decision 2008/615/jha provides that the automatic exchange of data is to be carried out on the basis of an evaluation report based on a pilot test, a questionnaire drawn up by the working group and an evaluation visit, which is to be carried out by the audit. belgium has taken all the necessary steps; it has thus applied the data protection questionnaire and the questionnaire on the exchange of dactyloscopic data and has carried out a pilot test together with france and luxembourg which was conclusive.
in writing. ‒ considering the need to step up cross-border cooperation, particularly in combating terrorism and cross-border crime, and to strengthen cross-border law-enforcement cooperation in the eu, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ a vote adding belgium to the legal architecture of europe allowing the fighting of terrorism and organised crime while fully respecting human rights and the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report that will implement the council’s decision on the launch of automated data exchange with regard to dactyloscopic data in belgium.
in writing. ‒ the adoption of the schengen convention was one of the main achievements of the european integration process. ensuring freedom of movement at the level of the european union, including for nationals of the member states, is a sure win. however, the application of the provisions of the convention to the movement of persons, including third-country nationals, may raise a number of problems for ensuring european security. it is therefore necessary to take preventive measures, including fingerprinting and the exchange of such data between member states. the application of that measure must respect the rights and freedoms of citizens which are at the heart of the european construction. the admission of belgium to the list of member states which have adopted these measures is likely to contribute to the strengthening of european security. this is all the more so as belgium hosts the main european institutions, making a vital contribution to the smooth running of our work as members of the european parliament. for these reasons, i consider that the adoption of the present document is imperative and constitutes a step forward in strengthening european security.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament legislative resolution refers to the draft council implementing decision on the launch of automated data exchange with regard to dactyloscopic data in belgium. automated access to dactyloscopic data (fingerprints, latent fingerprints, etc.) is regulated in council decision 2008/615/jha on the stepping up of cross-border cooperation, particularly in the fight against terrorism and cross-border crime. the aim of this decision is to accelerate crossborder police and judicial cooperation between european union countries in criminal matters by improving the exchange of information between authorities with responsibilities for crime prevention and investigation. the launch of automated data exchange with regard to dactyloscopic data may only take place after the implementation of the general provisions on the protection of personal data in the national legislation of the member states. the verification of compliance with this condition shall be carried out on the basis of an evaluation report based on a questionnaire, an evaluation visit and a pilot test. these criteria have been successfully fulfilled by belgium, therefore the council gave a favourable opinion to that country to receive and supply personal data for the purpose of automated searching of dactyloscopic data. by means of the legislative resolution, parliament approved this council decision.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the authorised exchange of data on dactyloscopic data from poland, as i believe that cross-border cooperation is stipulated for the protection of the member states of the european union, for the protection of the rule of law, but also for the eradication of terrorism and transnational crime in the member states. the commission decision implementing decision 2008/615/jha provides that the automatic exchange of data is to be carried out on the basis of an evaluation report based on a pilot test, a questionnaire drawn up by the working group and an evaluation visit, which is to be carried out by the audit. poland has taken all the necessary steps, including the application of the data protection questionnaire and the questionnaire on the exchange of dactyloscopic data and a successful pilot test with austria.
in writing. ‒ considering the need to step up cross-border cooperation, particularly in combating terrorism and cross-border crime, and to strengthen cross-border law-enforcement cooperation in the eu, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ a vote for adding poland to the legal architecture of europe allowing the fighting of terrorism and organised crime while fully respecting human rights and the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report that will implement the council’s decision on the launch of automated data exchange with regard to dactyloscopic data in poland.
in writing. ‒ the extension of the schengen convention to the member states of central and eastern europe was an important moment in the consolidation of european integration. the achievement of free movement within the european union is one of the key achievements of the european integration process. free movement of persons has enabled our citizens to move without restriction beyond the borders of their own countries and without being stopped by the borders of member countries. however, this freedom also entails a number of risks in terms of the movement of third-country nationals or immigrants from neighbouring countries, as has become apparent in recent times. for these reasons, the creation of a dactyloscopic database containing the fingerprints of those entering the european area has become an imperative measure. poland's joining the group of member states already applying these measures is an important step, extending the european security area to a significant part of central europe. therefore, the approval of this document is necessary to prevent the entry into the european area of individuals who may prove to be real threats to our citizens.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament legislative resolution refers to the draft council implementing decision on the launch of automated data exchange with regard to dactyloscopic data in poland. automated access to dactyloscopic data (fingerprints, latent fingerprints, etc.) is regulated in council decision 2008/615/jha on the stepping up of cross-border cooperation, particularly in the fight against terrorism and cross-border crime. the aim of this decision is to accelerate crossborder police and judicial cooperation between european union countries in criminal matters by improving the exchange of information between authorities with responsibilities for crime prevention and investigation. the launch of automated data exchange with regard to dactyloscopic data may only take place after the implementation of the general provisions on the protection of personal data in the national legislation of the member states. the verification of compliance with this condition shall be carried out on the basis of an evaluation report based on a questionnaire, an evaluation visit and a pilot test. those criteria have been successfully fulfilled by poland and therefore the council has given a favourable opinion to that country to receive and supply personal data for the purpose of automated searching of dactyloscopic data. by means of the legislative resolution, parliament approved this council decision.
in writing. ‒ the considerable efforts made over the years in the union to strengthen the right to information of its citizens are steps that need to be supported by legislation in all areas of service provision. all the more reason to speak of transparency and fair information in the provision of services by private individuals to private individuals, since in this equation those who need protection are the recipients of services, and the union must provide them with an optimal framework in which to exercise their right to free movement, guaranteed by the eu treaties. i support the commission's position on how this framework for the operation of travel services will be secured and aligned with democratic norms, to protect those who use the services. i voted in favour of establishing fair trading practices by creating a legal framework whereby entities marketing their online services do not offer additional services in a hidden, unclear or ambiguous manner, such as by concealing the option not to book other additional services. i believe that only in this way can we speak of an effective right to information and of real transparency in the provision of services.
in writing. ‒ i support the draft legislative resolution of the ep on the council's first reading position with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council on package travel and associated travel services, amending regulation (ec) no 2006/2004 and directive 2011/83/eu of the european parliament and of the council and repealing council directive 90/314/eec (09173/3/2015 c8-0281/2015 2013/0246 (cod)). the amendment to the regulation aims to modernise the rules on package travel, to include personalised combinations of travel services, in particular those purchased online, with the aim of increasing legal certainty and transparency for both travellers and businesses. another benefit is to reduce the harm to consumers by granting additional rights to terminate a contract and to establish stricter rules on price increases, while ensuring fairer competition between tourism businesses.
in writing. ‒ in a europe of free movement of citizens, guaranteeing their right to be well informed about the services they can benefit from while travelling in europe and beyond is necessary and beneficial for all parties. in addition, travellers should have access to adequate means of redress in the event of problems arising during the period of use of the services concerned, whether it is the journey as such or a stay, in particular in the case of services purchased on the internet.
in writing. ‒ the package travel proposal represents a positive solution for consumers and businesses. i strongly support more effective rules on insolvency protection for travellers in case of the trader’s insolvency; stricter liability of traders in case of underperformance of the package; improved pre-contractual information requirements and termination rights; and better protection in cases where the traveller’s return is impossible because of unavoidable and extraordinary circumstances. i believe that the compromise reached after a difficult negotiation regarding definitions of linked travel arrangements and travel packages represents a satisfactory result. it is very important that the definition of linked travel arrangements has been widened in order to ensure adequate protection for travellers. moreover, i welcome the obtaining by the european parliament of an appropriate review process by 2018 of these definitions by the european commission, accompanied if necessary by legislative proposals, in order to verify ‘whether an adjustment or broadening of the definition of travel packages is appropriate’.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this recommendation that will revise the commission staff working document entitled ‘guidance on the implementation/application of directive 2005/29/ec on unfair commercial practices’. the commission will inform parliament on how its views have been taken into account when the revised guidance is adopted.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this package as i believe it is in the interests of all europeans to have a streamlined, modern and secure legislation on travel packages and arrangements. tourism is one of the most stable and important sectors of the economy in all of the eu. tourist numbers are only increasing across the board and revenues made from this industry are helping to keep tens of thousands of families financed. as more and more packages are trans-border, as more intra-union and external travellers want to see more, to travel more, we need to have a full set of regulations that allow agencies, travel operators, transport companies and the tourists themselves a full range of options and modern terminology, protect their rights, ensure compensation and security and boost this sector of the economy. i believe this document makes an important step in this direction so i voted in its favour!
in writing. ‒ the communications sector has been a challenge for the european union in its efforts to create a common trading area and to give its citizens equal rights as consumers and beneficiaries of services. it is inconceivable in this century that european regulations do not include policies for standardising telephone and internet services, which are the most common means of communication between citizens of the union. i support these policies which provide for ensuring access to the open internet for all citizens and the elimination of all roaming charges on public mobile networks. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu, including the eu's maritime borders, and to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu's maritime borders. i voted in favour of achieving such objectives, considering that a transit framework needs to be created, and that this is achieved precisely by introducing harmonised rules guaranteeing access to the open internet, the protection of users' rights and the elimination of roaming surcharges.
in writing. ‒ given the importance of the implementation of the european single market for the deep development of all member states, i believe that the achievement of a european single market for electronic communications is in line with the principles of the union. in accordance with article 3 of the treaty on european union, the union is to establish an internal market. it works for the sustainable development of europe, based on balanced economic growth and price stability, a highly competitive social market economy aiming at full employment and social progress, and a high level of environmental protection and improvement. one of the essential things provided for in this article is the promotion of scientific and technical progress. i believe that this promotion can only be achieved in the context of a universal service within the eu that gives the same rights to users of communications telephony and the internet. i therefore support the second reading of the report on the single european electronic communications market.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support the long awaited abolition of roaming surcharges and the safeguards for net neutrality in eu law. this agreement will finally allow european customers to replicate their average mobile domestic consumption while periodically travelling in the union. this is the end of a long battle that we started many years ago to end eu roaming charges, to break the logic of artificial borders for mobile communications inside the european union, and to guarantee net neutrality by ensuring a strong open internet with non-discriminatory traffic, transparency and clear end-user rights. the result of our commitment is that mobile phone retail roaming surcharges for calls, sms and data within the eu will be abolished by 15 june 2017, provided that the wholesale prices review will be applicable on this date, and that the freedom and the right of european citizens to access or distribute internet content will no longer depend on the rules of the country in which they live.
in writing. ‒ i voted for a piece of legislation that will finally put an end to roaming charges and promote the principle of net neutrality in the rules that guide the management of internet traffic. it is a significant package that brings more freedom to european citizens. firstly, starting from 15 june 2017 we will be free to use our mobile phone anywhere in europe just as much as we do in our home country. secondly, it is about freedom to access legal internet content without discrimination and therefore keeping our internet open. this is an important step forward for our digital union.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this recommendation that will introduce harmonised rules to safeguard open internet access, to protect users’ rights and to end roaming charges.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a regulation on the regulation of the single telecoms market. this agreement marks the end of a long battle to end eu roaming charges, break the logic of artificial borders for mobile communications within the european union and guarantee network neutrality by ensuring a strong open internet with non-discriminatory traffic, transparency and clear rights for end-users. the surcharge for intra-eu roaming calls, sms and data will be eliminated by 15 june 2017, after a transition period from april 2016 to june 2017. as s&d coordinator for the itre commission i support the adoption of this regulation which is for the benefit of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, despite the fact that it is far from perfect. yet i believe that the key provisions contained in here are not something we can afford to postpone for much longer. it is true that the successive negotiations on this have managed to both water down some of the important proposals concerning consumer protection and digital rights as well as to lessen the accuracy of the text. at the same time, even in its current state, the council position does indeed respect the key issue of a free internet, data roaming and the creation of a true european single digital and telecommunications market.
in writing. ‒ the right to physical and mental integrity is effectively guaranteed to every citizen of the union, but in order to be consistent and to continue the fight against torture and other inhuman punishment and treatment in practice throughout the world, we must ensure that the states with which the union cooperates also respect these democratic principles. this amendment to the regulation ensures our consistency as institutions of this union and our willingness to continue the fight by introducing controls at the eu's external borders, precisely to prevent the export of possible items with potentially lethal and inhumane uses. i voted in favour of the report on both the prohibition of trade in 'single-use' goods and related technical assistance intended for torture and execution and an authorisation system for 'multi-purpose' goods that could be used for torture and executions by lethal injection. i am confident that there will continue to be the closest possible collaboration between all the committees involved in strengthening regulation (ec) no 1236/2005, so that the eu's objectives of protecting human dignity and life, enshrined in both the lisbon treaty and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, are also achieved and respected beyond its borders.
in writing. ‒ in the context of a european single market and the globalisation of trade transactions, which are becoming increasingly complex, eu controls on the trade in instruments of torture are proving to be extremely important. on the other hand, the european parliament's efforts to prevent torture contribute primarily to the protection of human rights. the role of the member states is also vital, with a need to monitor the implementation of member states' commitments and their reporting and information exchange obligations. i believe that it is necessary to ensure the consistency of eu export controls so that products do not suffer from a duplication of controls, but the checks and, if necessary, the sanctions, must be effectively complied with.
in writing. ‒ i fully support the revision of this regulation which aims to contribute to the elimination of the death penalty worldwide and prevent torture through eu-wide controls on exports of torture goods and drugs used for lethal injection. the revision includes adding export licencing controls for lethal drugs and prohibiting trade in new items which have become regularly used for torture by certain regimes such as spiked batons, electric shock sleeves and cuffs for example. the so call ‘catch all clause’ will make it boundary for customs authorities to seize any good, whether listed in the regulation annexes or not, if there are reasonable grounds to believe that its final use will be for the purpose of torture. finally, i welcome the establishment of a union general export authorisation for countries that have undertaken firm international commitments and the use of urgency procedure to amend the lists of banned/controlled items, which will allow the eu to react more quickly to emerging trends and human rights crackdowns in the future.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the revision of the eu ‘anti-torture regulation’ which will make it more effective in preventing export of goods which could be used for torture, death penalty and other inhuman treatments. i support the extension of the scope of the regulation so as to include services related to the export of ‘torture goods’ such as marketing, transport, insurance and financial services; the ban of transit of ‘torture-goods’ via the eu and the introduction of a ‘catch-all’ clause which would impose authorisation requirements for other goods not included in the relevant annexes to the regulation but whose use could be suspicious. a more effective anti-torture regulation will not only better reflect the eu values as embedded in the eu charter of fundamental rights but will also enable us to more coherently export such values to the rest of the world.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report, which will contribute to the long—standing eu policy of eliminating the death penalty worldwide and of preventing torture. it will achieve these goals by combining prohibitions with licensing requirements for trade in listed goods.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text and i believe ms schaake did a very good job in her work on this council regulation. it is absolutely unacceptable to contemplate that third countries are importing from eu countries technologies, substances and even itc solutions which they then use to violate basic human rights, infringe personal freedoms, survey and harass politicians, civil society activists and, worst of all, conduct torture and implement capital punishment. member states obviously don’t do enough in this area and allow their companies to sell such goods and we simply cannot justify making a profit on the violation of all we hold dear in europe!
in writing. ‒ this report is asking to revise the current regulation, aiming to contribute to the efforts to eliminate death penalty worldwide and prevent torture through eu-wide controls on exports of torture goods and drugs, which are used for lethal injection. this revision includes adding export licencing controls for lethal drugs and prohibiting trade in new items which have become regularly used for torture by certain regimes, such as: spiked batons, electric shock sleeves and cuffs, to name few examples. i welcome the enlarged scope of the report that expends the list of medical products from being used for capital punishment by lethal injection. i also welcome the establishment of a union general export authorisation for countries that have undertaken an urgency procedure to amend the lists of banned, or controlled items, which will allow the eu to react more quickly to emerging trends and human rights crackdowns in the future. the eu has been advocating the elimination of the death penalty around the world for many years. this report, which i voted in favour of, represents a very positive step in our efforts to achieve this goal.
in writing. ‒ the abolition of the death penalty and of inhuman and degrading treatment is one of the priorities of the eu's human rights policy. regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 lays down community rules governing trade with third countries in goods which could be used for capital punishment, torture and other inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, and technical assistance for the use of such goods. the review of eu controls on trade in torture equipment has been long overdue, and the updates of the checklists are steps in the right direction. the european parliament report supports the revision of regulation (ec) no 1236/2005, stressing the importance of the strictest possible controls on those goods and products that could be used for torture or capital punishment. this review will allow us to ensure that there is protection of the right to life and prevention of torture. at the same time, we will be able to know whether products are used for legitimate purposes or for other purposes, such as medical. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's draft legislative resolution on the mandatory automatic exchange of information in tax matters envisages establishing the scope and conditions for the mandatory automatic exchange of information on cross-border tax rulings. the issue of tax fraud and evasion has always been a challenge for the european union, and joint action aimed at effective communication between member states on their tax decisions is needed. at present, administrative cooperation in the field of taxation is deficient, with member states neglecting the responsibility for transmitting tax decisions, which has a negative impact on the union's fight against tax fraud. i believe that transparency in the tax decisions taken by member states should guide the fight against tax evasion, and that a permanent, prompt and transparent exchange of information between member states is necessary, which is why i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution on the mandatory automatic exchange of information in tax matters, considering it appropriate in view of the current challenges.
in writing. ‒ i support the rapporteur's proposal for an efficient exchange of information and efficient processing of tax information between member states, but there are still a number of important practical difficulties, such as the discretion of the issuing member state to decide which other member states should be informed. in addition, the monitoring system is not sufficiently efficient, which makes it more difficult for the commission to identify any breach of the requirement to exchange information on advance cross-border rulings and advance pricing arrangements.
in writing. ‒ i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 2011/16/eu as regards mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation. the challenges posed by cross-border tax avoidance, aggressive tax planning and harmful tax competition should be indeed one of the eus concerns. therefore, i strongly support the call to increase transparency and to fight against all the earlier mentioned challenges by extending the scope of the directive to all tax rulings and not just to the cross border ones. in order to increase effectiveness, the commission shall develop a secure central directory where information to be communicated in the framework of this directive must be recorded in order to satisfy the automatic and mandatory exchange of information. in case of member states non-compliance, i welcome the proposal to introduce sanctions and establish penalties for refusal or omission of information exchange. also, in order to increase the directive’s efficiency, i believe that the publication of a summary containing the main tax rulings exchanged is necessary.
in writing. ‒ yet another vote completing the legal architecture of europe allowing the disciplining of financial transactions and limiting the scope for tax evasion and fraud.
in writing. ‒ the challenge posed by cross-border tax avoidance, aggressive tax planning and harmful tax competition has increased considerably and has become a major focus of concern within the union and at global level. i have voted for this report that will introduce a new article into the existing directive, setting out the scope and conditions for the mandatory automatic exchange of information on types of cross-border tax rulings and transfer pricing arrangements.
in writing. ‒ to combat tax evasion and tax avoidance, in light of the fact that legal personalities can take advantage of differences in tax rates and tax bases in different member states, it is necessary that the member states work together and share information. the commission has proposed that any rulings that relate to cross-border transactions must be securely shared among the member states, so that exploitation or other negative effects can be more easily discovered and prevented. cross-border rulings that have occurred in the last 10 years should also be shared, so that any recent indiscretions can be duly handled. this proposal is an excellent start to limiting the manipulation of tax laws, and takes great strides to improve transparency and communication between member-states. though there are further strides still to be taken in the fight against fraud and tax evasion, this is a definite step in the right direction for the european union, a step that will benefit the tax revenue of each individual member state.
in writing. ‒ increasing transparency and fighting against aggressive tax planning is one of the issues the parliament has taken the lead on. the current legal framework (directive 2011/16/eu), gives member states the discretion to decide whether a tax ruling might be relevant to another eu country. this creates a situation where a member state can issue tax rulings without being aware to other tax rulings issued elsewhere in the eu, which may impact their own tax bases. moreover, as the information exchanged between the member states is very limited and not mandatory, we are falling short from creating a more transparent and responsible tax regime. amending this current legal framework will increase required transparency. the current report supports the commission's proposal, which sets the scope and conditions for mandatory automatic exchange of information on types of cross-border tax rulings and transfer pricing arrangements. the parliament calls to extend the scope of the directive to all rulings, exchange all valid tax rulings already before the entry into force of the directive, and introduce sanctions in case of non-compliance. the adoption of this report will prevent companies from exploiting loop holes to artificially reduce their tax contribution, therefore i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a council directive amending directive 2011/16/eu as regards the mandatory automatic exchange of information in tax matters provides that all tax rulings of a member state which have a cross-border dimension are to be made available to the other member states through an automatic exchange of information. the european parliament's report supports the commission's proposal, introducing a number of improvements in terms of the scope of mandatory exchange of information, the way decisions are communicated and transparency towards citizens. the european parliament wants to send a clear message by voting in favour of transparency, clarity and fair tax competition in the european union.
in writing. ‒ the budgetary report for the financial year 2013 of the artemis joint undertaking shall exhaustively present its financial situation as at 31 december 2013, presenting both the results of its operations and its cash flows, in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules. however, i cannot but be concerned by the court of auditors' reservations on the legality and regularity of the subsidiary operations to the annual accounts, given that the joint undertaking has failed to assess whether the ex post audit strategy is a sufficiently valid instrument to ensure the legality and regularity of the underlying operations. in response to the court of auditors' concerns, the joint undertaking submitted an action plan setting out measures to address the identified deficiencies, which is why i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the artemis joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2013, believing that these deficiencies will be addressed as a result of the action plan.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. following a consensual compromise between the political groups, the agreement was voted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for his report that will further support artemis joint undertaking (‘the joint undertaking’) which was initially set up in december 2007 for a period of 10 years to define and implement a ‘research agenda’ for the development of key technologies for embedded computing systems across different application areas in order to strengthen union competitiveness and sustainability and to allow for the emergence of new markets and societal applications.
in writing. ‒ the artemis joint undertaking was set up in 2007 for a period of 10 years to define and implement a 'research agenda' for the development of key technologies for integrated information systems in different application sectors. the objective of artemis is to strengthen competitiveness and sustainability within the union and to facilitate the emergence of new markets and applications in society. in 2014, artemis and the eniac joint undertaking merged to create the electronic components and systems for european leadership (ecsel) joint technology initiative, which will continue for 10 years. the total financial contributions from the artemis member states should be at least 1,8 times the union financial contribution and the in-kind contribution of the research and development organisations participating in projects during the lifetime of the joint undertaking should be equal to or higher than the contribution of the public authorities. as vice-chair of the committee on budgetary control and as s&d coordinator for the committee on industry, research and energy, i am in favour of granting discharge to the artemis joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ this report recommends granting discharge to the director of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. with this text, the parliament recognizes that the artemis ju has taken the necessary steps requested to redress the shortcomings the parliament committee on budgetary control (cont) identified, particular, the fact that artemis ju failed to respect the 2014 recommendations of the discharge authority, by not adopting a comprehensive policy for the prevention and management of conflict of interests. however, following the revised report submitted by the director of artemis to cont, on june 2015, the committee decided that improvements have been made, i.e. in the ex post audits and audit strategies, the progress in managing the assurances provided by national funding authorities as well as on development of new methodology for residual error rate estimation. i agree with the committee’s decision to grant discharge to artemis, and therefore i voted in favour of the report in plenary.
in writing. ‒ the budget report for the financial year 2013 of the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) shall present in a comprehensive manner the financial situation of the eit up to 31 december 2013, showing both the results of its operations and its cash flows, in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules. following the court of auditors' report, reasonable assurances were obtained regarding the reliability of the institute's annual accounts, but, similar to the situation of the artemis joint undertaking, sufficient audit evidence regarding the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions could not be obtained. however, the european institute of innovation and technology provided enhanced guidance to the certification auditors in june 2013, also providing guidance to the knowledge and innovation communities, the beneficiaries of the institute's grants. as a result, there is an improvement in the level of insurance obtained. i conclude by pointing out that the institute's efforts during the financial year 2013 resulted in a budget execution rate of 96,97% and that the execution rate of payments in respect of payment appropriations was 96,86%, which is why i voted in favour of the discharge report for the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) has a vital importance in terms of delivering the goals of the eu’s policies to promote technology and innovation. eit management has shown a clear improvement in their shortcomings. this report aims at redressing the identified shortcomings in the discharge to the director of the eit for the financial year 2013. i welcome the many improvements of the eit’s report that make it possible for us to endorse the discharge, such as the newly introduced complementary ex-ante verifications for grant expenditure, which added a second layer of assurance on the legality and regularity of grant transactions; the redesigned procurement procedures since 2013 with a proactive approach towards the detection of errors; the obtainment of the audit certificates on the costs of eit’s beneficiaries; and the review of the portfolio of beneficiaries’ complementary activities.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report on the 2013 discharge of the european institute of innovation and technology that starting from 2014 uses the same audit certificate methodology as all other programmes under the horizon 2020 framework programme.
in writing. ‒ this report recommends granting discharge to the director of the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) for the financial year 2013. with this text, the parliament recognises that the eit has taken the necessary steps requested to redress the shortcomings the parliament committee on budgetary control (cont) identified related to the combined error rate on the audit issues and material procurement errors between 2% and 3% of total 2013 expenditure, which is above the materiality threshold of 2%, the insufficient quality of ex ante and ex post verifications as well as irregular public procurement procedures. however, following the progress report published by the eit on 29 july, 2015, the committee decided that improvements have been made, i.e. newly introduced complementary ex-ante verifications for grant expenditure, redesigned procurement procedures since 2013 with a proactive approach towards the detection of errors; improved the planning and monitoring procedures related to the budget implementation which include a more rigorous assessment of activities, increased absorption capacity of the first-wave beneficiaries and introduction of additional second wave beneficiaries. the eit management has shown the clear improvement in the shortcomings identified by cont, therefore i voted in line with cont's decision to grant discharge to eit for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the 2013 discharge of the eniac joint undertaking because it led to the consolidation of the european union accounts for the financial year 2013, thus helping member states to manage and develop nanoelectronics. the report shall be based on the consolidated accounts of the european union for the financial year 2013, which is drawn up on the basis of the information provided by the eu institutions, bodies, offices and agencies, in accordance with article 129 (2) of the financial regulation applicable to the general budget of the union, including by the eniac joint undertaking. the eu budget also finances a wide range of policies and programmes implemented across the eu, in line with the priorities of the european parliament and the council in the multiannual financial framework, with the commission carrying out programmes, specific activities and projects in the field with the technical support of specialised agencies and also of certain joint ventures. the eniac joint tasks aim to establish a commonly agreed research agenda in the field of nanoelectronics, with a view to future studies in the field, for the adoption and development of key competences in this area.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge of eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. following a consensual compromise between the political groups, the agreement was voted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ the eniac joint undertaking (ju) is a public-private partnership focusing on nanoelectronics that brings together eniac member/associated states, the european commission, and aeneas (an association representing european r&d actors in this field). i have voted for this report on the 2013 discharge of the eniac joint undertaking.
in writing. ‒ in my capacity as vice-chair of the committee on budgetary control and as s&d coordinator for the committee on industry, research and energy, i support the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. eniac was established in 2007 for a period of 10 years with the aim of defining and implementing a 'research agenda' for the development of key competences for nanoelectronics in different application sectors. eniac has made progress in implementing the action plan to address the deficiencies identified by the court in its qualified opinion. based on the information provided by the joint undertaking, we find that a level of 211,5 publications and 16,6 patents per eur 10 000 000 of union grants demonstrates a high productivity of its research results and that this level corresponds to all the requirements expressed so far by the seventh framework programme (fp7) coordinators.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge of the eu general budget – european council and council for the financial year 2013. following a consensual compromise between the political groups, the agreement was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report on the 2013 discharge of the european union’s general budget.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report of the european council and council in the financial year 2013 repeats similar trends from past years, regarding the budgetary transparency of the council. since 2009, the council refused to provide information on its dealing with finances, particularly on its increasing underspending and carry—overs of commitments in their 2013 budget. the current report reminds the council that all institutions are fully part of the follow-up process to the observations made by parliament in the discharge exercise, and that all eu institutions should cooperate to ensure the smooth functioning of the discharge procedure. it further emphasises the parliament’s prerogative to grant discharge to each heading of the budget individually in order to maintain transparency and democratic accountability towards taxpayers. lastly, the report insists that the expenditure of the council must be scrutinised in the same way as that of other institutions and that the fundamental elements of such scrutiny have been laid down in its discharge resolutions of the past years. i believe it is unacceptable for the council to conduct itself in such matter, particularly in the post lisbon treaty, when the parliament's powers have increased. this is why i voted against granting discharge to the council in 2013.
in writing. ‒ the ebola outbreak first appeared in sierra leone, liberia and guinea, the most affected countries, where life expectancy is less than 60 years, schooling rarely exceeds three years and about 80% of the population lives in extreme poverty. these indicators show the vulnerability of the populations in these states who cannot get through this crisis on their own. the european parliament has the task of overseeing the executive, acting as legislator and providing political impetus as a world leader in development. it also has a special responsibility in promoting the right to universal access to health care. the current ebola crisis has highlighted the structural weaknesses that persist in some countries, but at the same time it underlines the need for eu leaders to meet their targets of allocating at least 20% of public aid to the development of basic social sectors, giving priority in particular to health. that is why i voted in favour of the report, wanting to show solidarity with the states affected by this devastating virus.
in writing. ‒ the ebola crisis was possible due to shortcomings in the health systems of the affected countries, and has therefore both highlighted the structural problems that are still to be found in a number of countries and served as a reminder to eu leaders of the need for them to stay true to their goal of allocating at least 20% of official assistance to the development of basic social services, giving priority to healthcare. in the future, we must make sure that our investments are carefully planned and are targeting the real needs. we need to start discussing the ways in which the best use can be made of the humanitarian organisations’ capabilities in the future. moreover, it will be vital for the three countries to receive aid with a view to kick-starting their economies. all actors involved must demonstrate the vision and assume their responsibilities in the next months, even though ebola faded from the news headlines a long while ago.
in writing. ‒ since march 2014, sierra leone, liberia and guinea have been in the grip of the worst ever ebola crisis. i have voted for this report that will press ahead with its efforts to stop the development of this epidemic.
in writing. ‒ it is estimated that the latest ebola outbreak claimed the lives of at least 11 312 people and infected over 28 457 persons. liberia, sierra leone and guinea suffered the most from the crisis. but that, unfortunately, is not surprising. these three countries are at the bottom of the undp human development index. moreover, they are home to some of the worst-funded education and healthcare systems in the world, making the scale of the ebola epidemic a real challenge. the current report highlights the role of the eu, as a world leader on development, when it comes to promoting the right to universal healthcare. it emphasizes the eu’s leading role in providing development aid to these countries, in order to help revive their economy and support the development of basic social services - with healthcare as a priority. although ebola faded from the news headlines a long while ago, this current report, which i voted in favour of, highlights the structural problems that are still found in a number of countries and the responsibilities that still need to be fulfilled in the post-ebola period.
in writing. ‒ in 2014, west africa experienced the largest ebola outbreak in history, affecting over 20 000 people mainly in guinea, liberia and sierra leone, before spreading to other continents where isolated cases were reported. this ebola crisis has highlighted the shortcomings of health systems, especially in these countries, which do not have enough resources to have a robust and effective health system. moreover, this crisis has led to increased political instability and social and economic tensions in the affected countries. the efforts of the eu and other international actors involved in this crisis have led to progress at european and international level, but have not been sufficient to eradicate the ebola epidemic once and for all. in this context, a european strategy is needed to improve coordination and cooperation between eu countries in the fight against this epidemic, to increase protection at european level, and to support developing countries in their efforts to build up effective health systems. i therefore voted in favour of the goerens report on the ebola crisis and the long-term lessons.
in writing. ‒ i support the rapporteur's proposal for the commission to present a new design of the current type-approval regime to ensure, on the one hand, that type-approvals and certificates of conformity issued by the competent national authorities can be independently verified and re-evaluated by the commission, where appropriate, with a view to ensuring a level playing field at eu level, and, on the other hand, that eu regulations are effectively implemented and deficiencies in the implementing measures are corrected without the necessary increase in administrative burden.
in writing. ‒ such frauds as the one exposed by the volkswagen scandal are truly unacceptable: an action against health and the environment that can neither be tolerated nor forgiven. while we were investing a huge amount of money in technological development for a low carbon footprint we were neither improving nor harmonising our emissions testing adequately to safeguard us from being fooled by these cheaters. it is absolutely necessary for the commission to investigate any kind of manipulation in this sector, to standardise emission testing at the level of the 28 member states, to cooperate with nation states to improve their monitoring capacity, and to make all possible efforts to avoid this kind of situation in the future.
in writing. ‒ i fully supported a resolution that denounces an outright breach of eu environmental regulations and the manipulation of millions of consumers. the volkswagen scandal signals the need for a tighter approach to implementing car emissions regulations in europe. such fraudulent behaviour puts at risk global confidence in the product of an industry that provides europe with countless jobs in times of still-sluggish economic growth. the answer for more competitiveness must lie in more innovation, not in deceiving consumers.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this resolution that will establish a committee of inquiry to investigate the respective responsibility of the commission and of member state authorities for the failure to ensure the proper implementation and enforcement of the relevant eu law on emission measurements in the automotive sector.
in writing. ‒ the automotive industry is one of the main drivers of growth and innovation and contributes to employment in a significant number of member states. if decisive action is not taken, this scandal risks undermining the reputation and competitiveness of the entire eu automotive sector. we call on the commission and the member states to immediately launch an investigation into the use of handling devices (in relation to both the emission limit values and the advertised co2 level in g/km) for a wide range of vehicle makes and models. the survey should be carried out on the basis of data collected and transmitted by the approval authorities of the member states for vehicles on the market, using real-world driving tests. member states and the commission need to restore consumer confidence quickly through concrete measures. we therefore call on the commission to come forward with a legislative proposal for an eu-wide collective action mechanism so that consumers can have recourse to collective actions. we urge companies to take full responsibility for their actions, stressing that employees do not have to pay the price for the manipulation of emissions measurement devices. as s&d coordinator for the committee on industry, research and energy, i voted in favour of the resolution on emission measurement in the motor vehicle sector.
in writing. ‒ the deliberate cheating of tests and sale of vast numbers of vehicles making false claims about their performance has left consumers’ confidence in the car industry badly damaged. the commission should look seriously at a robust, centralised test procedure which creates a level playing field for car manufacturers, ensures proper implementation of pollution laws, and restores consumers’ confidence in this industry.
in writing. ‒ the recent emissions scandal not only highlights the need for robust rules on competition among car manufacturers but, more importantly, it makes the case for the eu to update its testing procedures. tests carried out by the eu's joint research centre (jrc) and other independent ngos clearly point to weaknesses in the current procedures. according to the jrc, real-world nitrogen oxides (nox) emissions of diesel passenger cars exceed two to five times the regulatory standards. considerable discrepancies exist between type-approval and on-road co2 emissions as well. this gap is due to the current eu test procedures, which do not use normal driving conditions and allow for undue ‘testing optimisation’ – a form of cheating all manufacturers resort to. if we do not urgently adopt a real-life emissions test cycle for all major pollutants, not only will we keep denying our citizens their right to be adequately informed, but we will also work against our goals on the protection of public health and the environment.
in writing. dieselgate, which began in early october, is forcing us to discuss an issue that has long been on the public agenda but has been ignored. i voted for the european parliament resolution following the debate on the falsification of car emissions tests by a car manufacturer. although the problem is limited to one player in this market, consumer confidence has been severely affected and is spilling over to the whole industry. technologies like diesel are now under public scrutiny, though the problem is unethical business practices. parliament urges the implementation of a new testing protocol, the so-called wltp, in 2017. the wltp is a necessary step to ensure that the consumption and emissions figures produced are representative for a given category of motor vehicles. the same should apply to compliance checks carried out by independent bodies. if they differ from those of the certification authorities of the member states, car manufacturers should be required to change their declared figures. but most importantly, we need to have a european certification authority. this ensures that certification procedures and standards are applied in the same way in all member states.
in writing. we welcome the adoption of the commission's work programme and look forward to concrete proposals for the implementation of the digital single market strategy so that it becomes fully operational. as regards energy, i would stress that the energy union must have at its core an efficient and functioning internal energy market, which ensures economic growth, jobs, affordable and competitive prices for individual and industrial consumers, and the protection of vulnerable consumers. the european commission and the council will set the governance framework after 2020 and must ensure that all legislative proposals forming part of the energy union follow the ordinary legislative procedure, thus fully involving the european parliament. the commission should present an annual report on the implementation of the energy union, including details on the implementation of energy legislation. i regret that the commission has not so far come forward with any proposal for a harmonised scheme for the compensation of indirect carbon emissions, which is now left to the member states. it would also be important to have a european action plan on energy poverty.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, i would first like to thank the rapporteurs, mr fernandes and mr deprez, for having taken account of the opinion expressed by the committee on foreign affairs on the 2016 budget in the formulation of the reply to the council's position on the budget. i would also like to draw attention to the fact that of all the sections of the budget, the council has chosen to cut the most drastically in the section relating to the external activities of the european union. from the point of view of the union's ability to conduct a coherent foreign policy, and thus to exert influence on the international scene, i consider these budgetary cuts to be extremely worrying. these reductions concern the european neighbourhood instrument, the pre-accession instrument, but also the development cooperation instrument, which is used, among other things, to finance european action on immigration. in the face of the multiple crises facing our neighbouring countries, in the face of the challenge posed by the large numbers of refugees seeking to flee from countries in conflict, divesting is, i think, the worst strategy we could pursue. for this reason it is imperative to restore and strengthen payment appropriations and commitment appropriations.
the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. the experience of the past years shows that the budget is negotiated with great effort and then not implemented. i wonder how much of the 2014 and 2015 budgets was spent as an allocation from the 2014-2020 mff? i think very little. the council uses this situation to propose a reduction in the 2016 budget. this is a national government's attitude, not the european council's! it's not fair what's happening. ministers who should, in their governments, take the necessary measures to implement european policies but do not, decide to reduce the european budget because it is not spent. the council must ask the member states to apply european policies. the commission must step in and speed up the procedures necessary for the implementation of the budget. the commission must take a proactive stance; it must not wait for action by the member states. there will be negotiations. i believe that the position of the european parliament must be in favour of making the most of budgetary resources for investment policies in all european programmes. we must at the same time support the allocation of off-budget resources for crisis situations. i think we have to be extremely firm, even considering not approving the budget if the council maintains its current position.
mr president, last year when we were adopting the budget of the union for 2015 we believed that we had a budget which addressed the priorities of the union for this year and the challenges we believed we would face. arguably we could not anticipate the dimension of the refugee crisis, but this year has proved to us that the budget as we had configured it for 2015 was not suitable to tackle these challenges, as proved by the two draft amending budgets in this field alone. therefore, the council has to understand that insufficient funding of the union in certain areas poses risks to the union and leaves it exposed, as was shown in the summer of this year. this is why we cannot understand and should not accept that on the one hand the council calls for more action in order to tackle the refugee crisis and its causes, while on the other proposing cuts of eur 50 million for action to reduce poverty in the mediterranean countries. the council will tell us that the appropriations in this heading are higher than last year’s budget, but the demand for action and funding is also much higher because conditions have worsened in the union’s neighbourhood over the past year. these are the double standards which the council has been imposing in recent years and which have led to a huge payment backlog which has even affected highly successful eu programmes like erasmus. we at parliament are committed to playing our role with responsibility in tomorrow’s vote and ensuring that the union receives a budget which enables it to tackle the current challenges and those of next year.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate my colleagues on the committee on budgets on this project, which responds to the priorities of the european citizens. we are talking about funds for job creation for young people, we are talking about funds for smes, funds for farmers, funds for cohesion policy or even funds for coherent foreign policy action. unfortunately the council seems to be fighting against these projects for the citizens. i am therefore critical of the public position expressed by the council, which has come forward and still does not understand that only together can we fight the challenges we face. mep initiatives are citizens' initiatives and i emphasise here again, for example, the important role of pilot projects and preparatory actions initiated by the european parliament. i am proud, for example, of the five pilot projects proposed this year, worth €5.3 million, which help europe's digital industry and sector, and which will generate taxes and fees that will help european citizens and, at the top, even the council.
mr president, i support the greater transparency in the general expenditure allowance and the roadmap towards a single seat for parliament. i also support the fact that the commission’s draft budget has mostly been restored, thus rejecting the cuts by the council with some adjustments to take into account the specific needs of the institutions. we must also take into consideration that the migration crisis has proved that the european union does not have the necessary crisis management tools. the inadequate response of the european union showed us that we also have to build its hard power of the european union. the budget must contain sufficient funds to set up security structures to improve the capacity of the european union to respond to such crises.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the madam president, madam high representative, less than two months ago we debated and adopted a comprehensive text on the role of the union in the middle east peace process, and today we are returning to this debate for a very simple reason: because of this wave of violence. it must be said that in the current context of the middle east, which is experiencing increasing tensions and conflicts in israel's neighbourhood, this recent violence only increases the instability of the region. that is why i call on the palestinian leadership to stop this incitement to violence and to publicly oppose extremism and the various acts perpetrated against the israeli side; otherwise we will not get out of the vicious circle of hatred and division. i would also add that the resumption of direct dialogue is essential, because we need a political solution and we cannot accept what mahmoud abbas has been saying for months and months: that he is too tired to enter into this dialogue. it must be made very clear that the solution is political.
madam president, last time when discussing the perspective of the peace process and the role of the eu we were showing full, unconditional support for your action. now, when discussing the crisis, the two sides in israel are only numbering the deaths and wounded people in their camps. we are, of course, highly concerned about the new wave of escalation somehow precipitated between the israelis and palestinians over the past weeks. the criminal actions and the retaliations not only bring additional affliction to the population, but they are endangering the peace process. the only conclusion to the stabbings, car rammings and shooting attacks is that the reality on the ground is not viable today. violence always leads to more violence. only positive steps, cooperation and concrete engagement on the ground could bring security improvements and reassurance for the population on both sides. therefore i welcome your recent efforts, including cooperation with the us secretary of state, john kerry, and the role of some eu foreign ministers and a very united and effective quartet principles’ meeting in vienna, which shows the need to speak united, to speak in a single voice, in order to be relevant for the two sides. and equally we reiterate, together with you, that the two leaders have to show responsibility, to show restraint in leadership, to contain the rhetoric that could easily inflame the situation not only on the ground, but also in the whole region. the security situation on the ground is different today, and it is much more dangerous than ever before if the conflict will still remain unaddressed, unresolved. we continue to support a two-state solution that must guarantee full respect for the dignity of the individuals on both sides and the rights of ethnic and religious minorities as equal citizens in their countries in both states. without negotiations there is no solution; without solution there will be no peace and the violations will only continue. one final call on the palestinian friends: please stop your divisions and please start building your legitimate leadership to be our interlocutor. for peace and talks and negotiations we need interlocutors on both sides.
madam president, in the context of the current sunni-shia conflict, the old arab-israeli conflict, which until recently dominated the scene, has become only one component – and not even the main one – in a much more complex situation. absolutely, if unattended, this conflict has the potential to make things even worse in that troubled area, but to continue to focus exclusively on it, ignoring the larger picture, is a recipe for failure. i agree that without any prospects, the new generation of palestinians living in camps, with parents who moved in decades ago, get angrier and angrier. but equally we should reject categorically the current wave of stabbings and violence against the jewish population. unfortunately, sometimes some of us, convinced that the palestinians are always right, no matter what, forget to equally condemn sincerely such violence, creating an increasingly strong impression that the eu is biased against israel, whom we might need tomorrow more than we think today – as we did with turkey. credible even-handedness is key to the success of our commendable efforts to push the parties into a final deal.
madam president, i am deeply concerned about developments in israel and palestine, which are threatening to make a two-state solution impossible. stabbings, car rammings and shooting attacks are making it clear that the situation is becoming more and more unstable and difficult. both sides need to explore together ways to stop violence: to calm the situation down, to show leadership and to make sure that there is no further loss of life. our objective must remain a two-state solution with a democratic and viable palestinian state living side-by-side with israel in peace and security. for this it must receive all necessary guarantees from its other neighbours concerning its security and stability. if an agreement to finally end the conflict is reached, the door would be open for development and cooperation in the area. at the same time, everybody is speaking about two sides: i think, ms mogherini, that we must encourage the palestinians to form a common side, and by this i refer to the fatah and hamas movements. they have to find a bridge and come to the negotiations as a united side.
madam president, on many occasions this house has stressed that, considering the fundamental relevance of the objectives of the cohesion policy, beneficiaries should not suffer the consequences of bad economic governance at national level. cohesion policy is, by definition, a policy aimed at reducing development gaps between regions and is based on a programme, which should be a long-term programme when it comes to the most important projects. it is evident that the application of macroeconomic conditionality goes exactly in the opposite direction. it risks widening development gaps and also undermining the predictability which the beneficiaries strongly need. the provisions of article 23 of common provision regulation must therefore be used only as a last resort, when it can be demonstrated that such measures are not detrimental for the objectives of the policy, but are in fact beneficial.
first of all, i would like to congratulate danuta hübner and jo leinen on their report. since i have been in the european parliament, this is the second attempt to reform the union's electoral legislation. the previous exercise showed that it is not easy to find a balance between boldness and political realism, and i believe that the proposals now before us achieve this. if we want the european elections to be more than the sum of 28 national laws or the result of 28 parallel elections, we must support the proposals contained in the hübner-leinen report, keeping as much as possible the lines of the reform adopted in the committee on constitutional affairs, because the essence of the reform is precisely the europeanisation of elections to the european parliament. by setting minimum standards, the democratic legitimacy of decision-making will be strengthened, and i mention here three points which i consider essential and which i have consistently supported: the provision of the possibility to vote from the age of 16, the observance of democratic procedures in the nomination of candidates for elections and the introduction of electronic voting. i believe that these simple mechanisms are likely to increase voter turnout and thus the democratic character of elections to the european parliament. finally, i hope that the large number of amendments tabled will not alter the report adopted in the afco, which is a good basis for negotiations with the council.
madam president, william gladstone said that late justice is no justice. that is why i welcome the council's proposal to increase the number of judges at the court of justice of the european union. the state must guarantee the independence, impartiality and authority of the court, but at the same time it is obliged to create mechanisms that allow real access to justice. the european union must always be concerned about the long-term image of justice. a fair assessment of developments is needed to allow the organisation of the means and the way the courts operate to be adapted. they have to face challenges not only from the increase in the number of member states but also from a considerable increase in the volume of cases in recent years, which has led to an unacceptable increase in the time taken to resolve them. we therefore consider that the judicial act must be carried out within a reasonable time, since ineffective judicial action can have negative long-term economic effects.
blue-card question.– do you not think that the commission proposal is unacceptable, especially considering the non-existence of an impact assessment, the compatibility of member states’ opt—out measures with the internal market of the world trade organisation rules, the failure to ensure legal certainty and the weak chances that this proposal can actually be implemented?
mr president, commissioner, i must state at the outset, because i believe he is sincere, that i do not support the cultivation and use of genetically modified organisms. i don't know what your opinion is as a doctor, because it didn't detach from the point of view that you presented here. the only way you can convince me as an engineer is to present scientific studies of health impact. that is what many european citizens want. what surprises me is that mr juncker, who is very clever, passes the hot potato when it does not suit him. the european union and the commission are not just there to hand out some money, they're not accountants here. i hope we have specialists who can analyze all the important things and handle them responsibly. i believe that health is an important thing and that is why we need a european policy. i think we should not forget, and certainly not neglect, the fact that for decades now, genetically modified feed has been imported from other countries. what are you doing? you didn't tell us what you can do to stop importing into the domestic market? we cannot destroy the european food industry or the livestock industry. i therefore believe that you must have a responsible analysis and come back to parliament with concrete proposals that balance the situation from all points of view.
in writing. the commission proposal is not clear at all and thus jeopardises the proper functioning of the internal market. the commission is to present a new proposal to allow member states to restrict the use of genetically modified food and feed on their territory. the current proposal not only lacks an impact study, but also fails to meet mr juncker's original commitment to review the existing procedural rules for the authorisation of gmos so that the commission is no longer able to authorise gmos when a clear majority opposes it. the commission should propose a revision of the rules for the authorisation of gmos in europe to reflect the position of eu citizens. it should no longer be possible to authorise new gmos for cultivation or import into the union until this promise is fulfilled.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development. mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs on their efforts to reach an agreement on novel foods. the simplification and improvements to the current text, by means of generic authorisation, shortening the authorisation period and facilitating the addition to the list of novel foods of products considered traditional in third countries, are welcomed. but at the same time, i want to reiterate that food innovation must be encouraged, but not at the expense of safety and health. i am also glad that this dossier has been dealt with separately from the one on cloning, but i hope that at the same time the commission and the council will find a way to address parliament's requests for the proper regulation of food from cloned animals. i do not want this agreement on novel foods to lead to the hesitation and even the abandonment of specific regulation of food derived from cloned animals.
in writing. i believe that there is an absolute need for transparent and clear legislation on novel foods. the free movement of novel foods which are safe for the health of consumers is an essential aspect of the progress of the european market. i am not against novel foods which have the capacity to provide a high level of protection of the health of the population, especially children, but i would like to point out the need to implement eu legislation on these foods which, in my view, must comply with stricter rules than classical or traditional foods. i welcome eu legislation on novel foods or foods produced using new technologies and production processes. the eu has a moral and legal obligation to establish clear information rules whereby food manufacturers inform consumers as thoroughly as possible about the technologies used and the origin of the raw materials used to obtain these novel foods.
in writing. ‒ the eu general budget for the financial year 2016 proposes to reduce the amount to be reallocated from a number of budget lines under horizon 2020 and the connecting europe facility. the result will be an increase of eur 153 million in commitment appropriations for horizon 2020 and eur 150 million in appropriations for the connecting europe facility. in the current context, account must be taken of a financial effort to address the shortcomings of the european union's economy, but also of the challenges it faces: migration and the refugee crisis, the actions to be taken on the farmer crisis, job growth, the key role played by micro-enterprises and smes, but also the commitment to reduce the outstanding payment arrears for the 2007-2013 cohesion programmes to around eur 2 billion by the end of 2016. i voted in favour of this proposal because it increases funding on lines such as: migration and asylum, erasmus plus, boosting innovation for smes, the eu's smart external borders, programmes that lay the foundations for a prosperous european union with the lowest unemployment rate.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the fact that the level of the budget’s increase is the same as the level of the estimates approved in spring 2015: reinforcements in the appropriations due to the creation of a new political group (enl) and those necessary to ensure stable employment of contract staff in all political groups have been fully compensated by decreases in the ep administrative budget. i support the enhanced transparency of the general expenditure allowance and the roadmap to a single seat, as well as the fact that the commission’s draft budget has been mostly restored – thus rejecting the cuts by the council – with some adjustments to take into account the specific needs of the institutions. my congratulations for the efforts made in order to restore the draft budget for the european external action service.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the draft general budget of the european union for 2016.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft eu budget for the financial year 2016 because i believe that it provides funding for both ongoing and ongoing projects, and that it gives additional attention to innovation, young people and women, which is essential. among the pilot projects in the 2015 budget, i would like to highlight three that i consider very important for romania: the pilot project on reducing youth unemployment; the one on promoting entrepreneurship by educating and encouraging young people to pursue an entrepreneurial career; and the third one on improving access to risk finance for investments in research and innovation, especially among women. these three topics, among many other projects to be funded and which i believe will have a great positive impact on citizens, address the main problems in the eu in general and in romania in particular: lack of jobs for young people, lack of investment of any kind, including private, in research and innovation, and weak encouragement of young people and women, especially in entrepreneurship.
in writing. ‒ i support the european executive's proposal to find solutions to the persistent crisis affecting european farmers, especially in the dairy sector, and in particular the proposal to already integrate in its 2016 budget position the amount of eur 500 million to support the emergency measures announced by the commission.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the fact that the level of the budget’s increase is the same as the level of the estimates approved in spring 2015: reinforcements in the appropriations due to the creation of a new political group (enl) and those necessary to ensure stable employment of contract staff in all political groups have been fully compensated by decreases in the ep administrative budget. i support the enhanced transparency of the general expenditure allowance and the roadmap to a single seat, as well as the fact that the commission’s draft budget has been mostly restored – thus rejecting the cuts by the council – with some adjustments to take into account the specific needs of the institutions. my congratulations for the efforts made in order to restore the draft budget for the european external action service.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report on the general budget of the european union for 2016, which will increase the commitment and payment appropriations under heading 4, global europe.
in writing. ‒ i support the introduction of the review clause and of gender balance, and the increase in the number of judges in the general court to 28. it is absolutely necessary to ensure the functioning of the european judiciary. member states could not agree on criteria as simple as merit: they insisted on their national interests. this comes at a high price for citizens, but the price for a dysfunctional judiciary would even be higher. therefore we should accept their agreement, but insist on overcoming discrimination: it is about time that both genders were equally represented in european courts.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the doubling of the number of judges at the general court of the european union because, in reality, this measure is not necessary, as it seems to be the wish of some member states. do we really want trials to be faster and more efficient? the solution is to hire more referees and clerks in the judges' offices, because they're the ones who do the research and documentation for the judges' decisions. the numbers don't lie. the hiring of more secretaries in 2014 halved the processing time of one case. why, then, do we need to double the number of judges and not hire more secretaries? the president of the general court also requested the council to increase the number of auxiliary staff in december 2014. i ask that the allegations of possible secret correspondence between the president of parliament and the president of the court of justice and the other allegations mentioned in the letter received by all meps from a group of university professors be investigated.
in writing. ‒ in 2011, the court of justice of the european union (cjeu) launched a legislative initiative to change its status to allow the appointment of 12 more judges to the general court. i voted for this proposal, which will increase the number of judges at the cjeu.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, even though the coordinator of this dossier is a colleague from the alde group and the committee on fisheries, because i do not consider it necessary to increase the number of judges in the court of justice of the eu. the justification given, that of increased responsibilities and therefore increased workload for judges, was not a reasonable one in my view, given that each judge has less than 60 cases per year to judge. the court of justice has also established that the principle of proportionality is not infringed by the principle of proportionality. in these circumstances, i believe that the number of auxiliary staff should have been increased, because they are the ones who will actually have an increased workload.
in writing. ‒ in order to ensure the most comprehensive legislative framework for fisheries, the european parliament and the council agreed to transpose into union law a series of recommendations made by the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm agreement). this agreement provides for an appropriate framework for multilateral cooperation to promote the development, conservation, rational management and optimal use of living marine resources in the mediterranean and black seas at levels considered to be sustainable and with a low risk of depletion. the gfcm recommendations provide for a number of measures to improve the existing framework, including measures on the sustainable exploitation of red coral in the commission's area of competence, measures to reduce incidental catches of seabirds, sea turtles, monk seals and cetaceans in fisheries in the gfcm agreement area, and measures to ensure a high level of protection against shark and catfish fishing. i voted in favour of the recommendation on amending regulation (eu) no 1343/2011 on certain provisions relating to fishing in the gfcm agreement area as these regulations are to provide the fisheries sector with a consolidated regulatory framework geared to all sectors of activity.
in writing. ‒ regulation (eu) no 1343/2011 had to be amended to incorporate conservation and control measures adopted by the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm). measures include provisions for the sustainable exploitation of red coral, the mitigation of incidental captures of seabirds, sea turtles, monk seals and cetaceans, the protection of sharks and rays, and the extension of some technical measures to the black sea as well as management measures for fisheries exploiting small pelagic stocks in the adriatic sea.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report, which will provide an appropriate framework for multilateral cooperation to promote the development, conservation, rational management and best utilisation of living marine resources in the mediterranean and the black sea at levels which are considered sustainable and at low risk of collapse.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of my colleague's report in the committee on fisheries because it is a good report that has been negotiated with council representatives for a long time and i have therefore had the opportunity to support my amendments during the procedure. the final form of these negotiations, the document voted on today, is one that meets the needs of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean for the conduct of its work. it is also very important that this document also contains an exceptional derogation for romania regarding the use of trawls and seines in the black sea fishing activities, which would have had a major negative impact on the romanian industry. this derogation was possible because the main reasons why the use of trawls and seines should be restricted, although they apply to the mediterranean sea, do not apply to the black sea.
in writing. ‒ fishing in the mediterranean is one of the european union's major economic activities. regulation of this activity constitutes the main task of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean, as laid down in the agreement adopted in 2011. these regulations now need to be amended to incorporate a number of measures to conserve and control marine habitats, including the protection of certain species of birds, turtles, seals, cetaceans and sharks. specifically, the use of trawls and seines in the black sea fisheries, which is included in the tasks of the general commission, the minimum basal diameter of colonies, fishing gear and devices, and the harvesting of red coral are concerned. however, the text adopted by the commission also accepted a number of derogations concerning trawling for a limited number of vessels and the use of remotely controlled underwater vehicles in the coastal areas of the black sea, unlike the mediterranean sea, where this is not allowed. however, these derogations will not act as a precedent for other situations and will be closely monitored by the general commission. the present amendment is a necessary measure to update the regulations in this area.
in writing. ‒ on 22 april 2015, the commission presented, together with the communication on 'review of the decision-making process on genetically modified organisms', a proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 as regards the possibility for member states to restrict or prohibit the use of genetically modified food and feed on their territory after such products have been authorised - opt-out - (com2015) 177). in view of the absence of an impact study, the feasibility of the proposal, and the fact that it is contrary to the 'transparency' and 'better regulation' commitments undertaken by the new commission, and taking into account the long-term consequences of the proposal for the functioning of the internal market for food and feed and the competitiveness of the union agricultural sector, i support the rejection of the commission's proposal.
in writing. ‒ it is well known that the use of genetically modified organisms has always been controversial, with the european union having very strict rules and complex authorisation procedures for their cultivation and marketing. i welcome the fact that, as of april 2015, member states can decide whether to allow gmos to be grown on their territory.
in writing. ‒ we must ensure that clear and unambiguous rules are set to provide legal certainty for member states which want to restrict the use of gm food and feed in order to respond to the concerns raised by citizens. the commission proposal is not acceptable, especially considering the non-existence of an impact assessment, the incompatibility of member state opt-out measures with internal market and wto rules, the failure to ensure legal certainty, and the weak prospects for the proposal actually being implemented. citizens’ concerns about gmos have to be taken into account today, as our main priority in this matter is the health and safety of european citizens. it must be up to the citizens to choose europe’s future food and agricultural model and to refuse gmos if they do not wish to have them on their table.
in writing. ‒ a clear vote upholding the european single market and the principles of rules-based international trade.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report which rejects the commission’s proposal that member states wishing lawfully to restrict or prohibit the use of gm food and feed on their territory must provide ‘compelling reasons’.
in writing. ‒ i voted to reject the commission proposal because it does not review or improve the gmo authorisation process, in fact it leaves it completely unchanged. the entire gmo system in the eu needs a thorough review. the existing system is not transparent and does not reflect the concerns that many citizens have in relation to gm products and their potential effects on human health and the environment. the commission must honour its commitment to look again, in depth, at the gmo regime at eu level and propose changes which reflect citizens’ concerns.
in writing. ‒ the use of genetically modified organisms in the diet of the population has been a subject of intense and controversial debate from the outset. beyond the arguments of the proponents and opponents of this type of food, the decisions we take as representatives of european citizens must take into account their interests. the commission's proposal to amend the 2003 regulation in this area concerns the possibility for member states to restrict or even prohibit the use of genetically modified food and feed on their territory, provided that an eu-wide authorisation system is maintained. the application of these amendments would, however, create legal uncertainty as regards the practical application of the measures proposed by the commission, would fragment the internal market and distort competition, would contravene the principles of good governance and transparency and could limit the free movement of goods within the eu. in this context, it is clear that we need an impact assessment of these measures, but above all a series of scientific opinions from the european food safety authority, assessing the risks to human health, animal health and environmental protection. i consider the position of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety to be well founded and support the adoption of the report, in the sense of rejecting the commission's proposal.
in writing. ‒ the la via report is built against the european commission's proposal on the possibility for member states to restrict or prohibit the use of genetically modified food and feed on their territory. this commission proposal follows the pattern of a recent amendment allowing states to ban the cultivation of eu-approved gmos on their territory, but not their marketing. member states could thus restrict or prohibit, under certain conditions, the use of genetically modified food and feed on their territory after such products have been authorised. this commission proposal is, first of all, flawed, as there is no preventive study showing the real implications for the functioning of the internal market, in which controls have been removed, and for the competitiveness of agriculture in the eu, which is heavily dependent on protein supplements from genetically modified organisms. in this respect, we could be seeing a regression in the single market by reintroducing controls between member states that accept and those that do not accept the marketing of such products. i therefore voted in favour of the la via report, which recommends rejecting the proposal for national bans on gmos.
in writing. ‒ the food sector is one of the most productive in the european union. this productivity must take into account first consumer safety and then profitability. in this regard, the amendment of the novel food report is intended to provide consumer safety by subjecting novel foods to a safety assessment and authorisation before being placed on the eu market. innovation is also attractive, but consumers demand that food products be safe to eat, they demand to be informed about how they were produced, but also about their benefits. the innovation is accepted only if it provides consumer confidence. i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on novel foods because a robust legislative framework is needed for the approval of novel foods to ensure compatibility in terms of safety, benefits for the consumer, as well as environmental, social and ethical concerns.
in writing. ‒ eu rules on novel foods were established with the entry into force of regulation (ec) no 258/1997 of the ep and of the council and commission regulation (ec) no 1852/2001. in view of the scientific and technological progress made in the food industry in recent years, it is natural that legislation should reflect the new realities in this sector in the eu internal market. the definition of a novel food, the rationalisation of the authorisation procedure and the data protection provisions are the main concerns. i support the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on novel foods (2013/0435 ((cod)) as i believe that stakeholders need an efficient procedure that provides certainty and adequate protection for products.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the new rules will subject food to safety assessment and authorisation through a fully harmonised procedure at eu level. the european food safety authority (efsa) should carry out an assessment in all cases where a food may affect human health.
in writing. ‒ i strongly believe that we must ensure food safety, protect public health and secure the functioning of the internal market for food, while supporting innovation in the food sector. streamlining the authorisation procedure, improving its efficiency and transparency must be our priority. i support the clarification of the definition of a novel food and of new technologies which have an impact on food production, as well as the introduction of a faster and more proportionate safety assessment for traditional foods from third countries having a history of safe food use. however, implementing acts for the authorisation procedure for a novel food give parliament absolutely no political control over what kind of novel food is being authorised; the list of categories of novel foods is non-exhaustive and can cover any new food that falls under the scope; and no transitional measures regarding the food derived from the descendants of cloned animal are included – thus leaving a legal gap until new legislation is in place. i am therefore not fully satisfied with the final text of the regulation.
in writing. ‒ i abstained in the vote on the proposal for a regulation on novel foods.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i believe that it, like the commission's proposal, although it seeks to simplify the certification procedures for novel foods to be placed on the eu market, could endanger the health of citizens. the commission has very correctly identified since 2008 the need for new eu-wide rules for the authorisation of novel foods and the need to facilitate the procedures in this case, but i believe that centralising this decision and eliminating individual authorisations in favour of a generic authorisation system essentially means that in certain cases there will be products that will be authorised without being individually assessed. this, in my view, represents a real danger to the health of eu citizens because certain products that affect human health could be authorised. or, if we are talking about centralised authorisation, it means that there will be no further filters to identify these products, but they will be directly part of the citizens' diet.
in writing. ‒ novel foods are a separate category within the food industry in the eu member states. it arose as a result of the need to regulate the technological processing of food for sale on the consumer market. the progress made in processing technology since the first regulation in 1997 makes it necessary to review european legislation in this area. the new regulation proposed by the council provides a number of benefits, such as establishing a single, centralised and harmonised procedure at european level for the authorisation of novel foods, data protection and legal certainty for companies submitting authorisation applications, reducing the administrative burden for small and medium-sized enterprises, adapting to new techniques and creating a favourable framework for innovation in the agri-food sector. at the same time, the new regulation excludes aspects related to cloning, which are the subject of other legislative proposals, and provides for a separate simplified procedure for the placing on the market of traditional foods from third countries. in order to ensure the protection of public health, the opinion of the european food safety authority becomes essential, which is an important step forward. however, it may be useful to include the european parliament institutionally in this decision-making process.
in writing. ‒ novel foods are foods that were not commonly used in human nutrition in the european union before 15 may 1997, such as: foods with a new or intentionally modified primary molecular structure, foods containing, consisting of, or produced from plants, foods containing, consisting of, or produced from micro-organisms, fungi or algae, etc. they were introduced by a regulation in 1997. the nicholson report proposes to revise this regulation, as several new food products and food ingredients have since been developed due to scientific and technological progress. it also proposes new rules on the safety assessment and authorisation of novel foods through a fully harmonised eu procedure and, to this end, the european food safety authority should carry out an assessment of foodstuffs that may affect human health. in addition to establishing a single centralised and harmonised eu-wide procedure for the authorisation of novel foods, this report introduces certain measures to reduce the administrative burden for small and medium-sized enterprises and at the same time creates a favourable framework for innovation in the agri-food sector. i therefore support the nicholson report on novel foods.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the new legislation on air pollution, which causes about 400 000 premature deaths in the eu each year, could save up to €40 billion in pollution costs by 2030.
in writing. ‒ i would like to stress the importance for romania of the proposal for a revised national emission reduction commitments directive, in terms of its impact on many industrial sectors: energy, industry, transport, residential and agriculture. as a general position, i agree that measures to address dangerous pollutants covering all sectors are urgently needed but we need to ensure that the proposed measures will not lead, in the end, to increased costs in economic terms and will not impose undue administrative burden for the government and private sector. the proposal for new national emission reduction commitments applicable for 2020 and 2030 specifically implies for romania the following reduction compared to emissions in 2005: 93% for sulphur dioxide, 67% for nitrogen oxides, 64% for volatile organic compounds, 24% for ammonia, 65% for particulate matter pm2.5; and 26% for methane. these reductions will require additional efforts and costs, to prevent and control emissions, which could affect economic competitiveness. i consider that the objectives for 2030 should better reflect national emission projections, or alternatively that they should be proposed as indicative targets.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report that will led to the introduction of new ceilings on emissions for sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, ammonia and non-methane volatile organic compounds for 2020 and 2030.
in writing. ‒ i decided to vote against this report because i believe that it started from a commission proposal on reducing air pollutants in the eu, which is a topic that needs to be debated and for which viable solutions need to be found in order to meet the objectives, but, through the additions to this initial proposal, it also involved small and medium-sized farming. the addition of provisions on emissions of harmful gases from animal husbandry, with the express designation of small and medium-sized farming, implies costs and obligations for farmers at or below the threshold of profitability. such a provision for farmers and livestock breeders in romania, no matter how large or small, would entail additional costs that would be difficult to bear and would involve the bankruptcy of many. in these circumstances, i felt obliged towards the citizens of romania to vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ this directive on the reduction of national emissions aims to improve air quality, and that will undoubtedly have a positive impact on health. however, headline targets mean nothing if they cannot be implemented or if doing so leads to extensive job losses and increased inequality. ambitious targets must be achievable for all member states and should not represent a disproportionate burden for countries with fewer resources. we must strive to adopt legislation which brings environmental, health, societal and economic benefits.
in writing. ‒ economic development, with its ramifications in increased transport, industrial activity and urbanisation, brings with it a number of negative effects on the health of european citizens. the european commission has dedicated a policy to the objective of improving europe's poor air quality, the instrument of which involves capping member states' total annual emissions for sulphur dioxide (so2), nitrogen oxides (nox), ammonia (nh3) and non-methane volatile organic compounds (vocs). in the central and eastern european member states where indigenous solid fuel is used in the energy mix, the reduction of pollutants such as sulphur dioxide and particulate matter is proving to be much more difficult than in other cases. despite this, the states in question are signatories to the gothenburg protocol, which governs air quality control and protection measures. however, the implementation of the measures proposed in this report by reducing certain air pollutants leads to excessive costs and creates a disproportionate administrative burden on key sectors such as industry, energy, transport and housing. while the european commission's proposal provides for a set of limits on the pollutants that can be imposed, the european parliament's report is very ambitious, based on theoretical assumptions and projections.
in writing. ‒ the opportunity for citizens to express themselves through legislative initiatives is an important step in ensuring the legitimacy and strengthening of participatory democracy at european union level. this is an indisputable fact and it is necessary that the institutions responsible contribute to the smooth running of the procedures so that this democratic instrument can function. taking into account that only three initiatives out of 51 calls for initiatives have been admissible since 2012, this tool needs to be simple, clear, easy to use and widely disseminated. i voted in favour of the report on the european citizens' initiative because i believe it is essential that european citizens can contribute to the exercise of the union's legislative powers and be directly involved in the initiation of legislative proposals.
in writing. ‒ the citizens' initiative is an essential means of linking european citizens to the union's institutions and an effective instrument of democratic participation, because it helps to formulate citizens' aspirations with a view to calling for eu action. in order to enable citizens to contribute to the exercise of the union's legislative powers and to be directly involved in the initiation of legislative proposals, it is necessary that they are familiar with this instrument. it is also why i support the rapporteur's proposal to organise information and promotion campaigns. i also consider it essential to support the media and use all public communication channels to raise public awareness of citizens' initiatives, to take the necessary measures to ensure their transparency and to facilitate communication on current initiatives, for example by creating applications that provide information, send notifications and offer the possibility of online sign-up. it should also be borne in mind that youth civic engagement is fundamental to the future of all democracies, and we need to draw on national experiences of citizens' initiatives which are true models of success.
in writing. ‒ the european citizens’ initiative (eci) is a unique and innovative agenda-setting tool for participatory democracy in the european union, allowing citizens to play an active part in projects and processes that affect them. citizens should be able to participate actively in the further development of the european integration process. i therefore strongly support the implementation of the eci, which will make it possible to ask the commission to submit a proposal on matters on which citizens consider that a legislative act is necessary to implement the treaties – one of eu’s priority objectives being to strengthen the democratic legitimacy of its institutions. action of this kind should be encouraged and supported by all available means, and deficits in this respect need to be tackled in order to make the eci as effective as possible.
in writing. ‒ the european citizens' initiative is a tool for mobilising at european level and for exemplifying transnational participatory democracy. citizens of the member states shall have the right of legislative initiative for projects and processes which concern them directly. of all the requests to launch a european citizens' initiative, only three were considered admissible, which shows that there is still much room for improvement. here are a few examples: - organisers must be given as comprehensive information as possible on the legal eligibility criteria, deadlines and procedures; - the commission must explain in detail the reasons for rejecting a citizens' legislative initiative and the relevant legal considerations must, in the name of transparency, be made public in full; - simplification of the use of the online signature collection application; - the it tools used for the eci should also be made available to the regions, in order to involve citizens more closely in public affairs; this tool needs to be simple, clear, easy to use and widely promoted, precisely because it allows people to call for eu action to fulfil their aspirations.
in writing. ‒ the european citizens’ initiative (eci) has its origins in the constitutional convention on the future of europe and was designed as an instrument giving european citizens the opportunity to participate in launching legislative initiatives. i voted for this report, which will improve the functioning of the eci, make it more user-friendly and eliminate some of the obstacles that have proved a source of difficulty for eci organisers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european citizens' initiative because i share the rapporteur's view of its importance in the eu's democratic process. this initiative gives eu citizens the opportunity to ask the brussels institutions to take action on issues they identify. there has been much talk, and rightly so, of a lack of democracy and transparency in the decision-making process in the eu institutions. i believe that this instrument will improve the democratic process in the eu institutions and bring to the table those issues that citizens face but that the commission or parliament are unaware of. i also hope that future evaluations and any changes to this initiative will focus on improving the process and making it as easy as possible to access, as european citizens need a quick and easy way to make their voices heard in the eu institutions. i therefore encourage romanian citizens to use this initiative and to actively engage in the process of identifying eu problems.
in writing. ‒ when the treaty of lisbon gave european citizens the opportunity to take a legislative initiative to the european commission, many of us felt that we had taken europe one step closer to the citizens. that is why i find it outrageous and a mockery of the six million citizens who have participated in the initiatives so far, that out of 51 applications, only three have been declared admissible and 20 have already been rejected. this is a message to citizens not to interfere in the commission's work and citizens are getting the message, as the number of initiatives is clearly on a downward trend. it is not possible to constantly claim that citizens misunderstand european law and the role of the commission when they are looking for solutions to the most important questions affecting their lives. by doing so, the commission only reinforces the view that the european institutions are incapable of finding answers to citizens' problems. i consider the way in which the commission has dealt with the european citizens' initiative to date to be extremely damaging for participatory democracy and for the perception of the european union, and i therefore support the report by mr schöpflin, which could help to improve the regulation.
in writing. ‒ the eci is one of the most powerful tools for direct democracy that the lisbon treaty provided our citizens. since the entry into force of the eci, 51 initiatives have been submitted, resulting in the participation of more than 6 million people. while this is encouraging, in reality, of the 51 initiatives submitted in the past three years only three were deemed admissible. yet not a single initiative was followed up by legislation. the low success rates are linked to a number of problems regarding 1) the information provided to eci organisers, 2) the software offered by the ec for collecting signatures online, and 3) problems related to the public awareness of the eci. the current report, which i voted in favour of, provides us with the opportunity to address ongoing issues. it calls on the commission to increase transparency to the eci, on both the national and the european levels. it further asks the commission to provide appropriate guidelines, and legal guidance, to eci organizers. lastly, as a young mep i welcome the report’s recommendation to lower the age of participation in member states from 18 to 16. this recommendation will surely help us to draw young people’s interest and participation in this democratic exercise.
in writing. ‒ the european citizens' initiative is an innovation of the lisbon treaty, which gives the right of political initiative to citizens, subject to certain conditions. citizens can thus invite the commission to submit new proposals for legal acts in areas of eu competence, thus directly participating in european policy-making. however, despite this reforming law it introduces, the european citizens' initiative has been facing a number of technical and organisational problems since its introduction on 1 april 2012. thus, in the three years of its existence, 51 initiatives were submitted to the commission, of which only one was accepted. in addition to requiring at least one million supporters from at least one quarter of the member states, organisers of a european citizens' initiative face complex and discouraging procedures and the commission can reject such a request without any particular reason. a reform of this participatory democracy mechanism is therefore needed to meet its ultimate objective, namely to put citizens on an equal footing with the european parliament and the council of the eu before the commission. i therefore voted in favour of the schöpflin report on the european citizens' initiative.
in writing. the eci was seen as a triumph of the lisbon treaty because it opened up the chance for european citizens to become initiators of legislation and active participants in european policy-making. three years after its entry into force, this instrument is disappointing. the bureaucratic, lawyer-like approach of the ec risks producing the opposite effect, contributing to the alienation of citizens from europe. the ep has played an important role in promoting eci legislation, and now, once again, the ep is taking the initiative to change the regulation. the eu must become a political construct and therefore open to the ideas and proposals of its citizens. this imperative must be understood by eu bureaucrats, but also by member states who must facilitate the whole eci procedure, rather than adding additional administrative hurdles. i voted for the schöpflin report, which contains clear proposals for improving the eci regulation. the amendment proposal that the ec has to submit to the ep and the council must demonstrate an understanding that the eu is at a crossroads. either we learn to listen to the voice of our citizens and then we will succeed, or we continue to distance ourselves from european citizens and are thus doomed to failure.
in writing. ‒ the adriatic and ionian region is an area with considerable socioeconomic differences between the eu member states and the other third countries. the eu strategy for the region, eusair, is thus a way of creating a balance of prosperity and sustainable development between the countries in the region, whether eu member states, candidate countries or 'potential candidate countries'. an evaluation carried out by the european commission in 2013 of the previous strategies, namely the eu strategy for the baltic sea region (eusbsr) and the eu strategy for the danube region (eusdr), showed that they led to increased cooperation and thus to the emergence of hundreds of new projects and networks in the danube and baltic sea region. these examples provide a strong argument for supporting a similar strategy in the adriatic and ionian sea region. i voted in favour of the report on the eu strategy for the adriatic and ionian region because this area has vast potential, which can only be unlocked by joint and coordinated efforts by all the countries in the region.
in writing. ‒ representing the eu's third macro-regional strategy, eusair includes 8 countries, eu member states and non-eu member states, and covers over 70 million inhabitants. the region has been affected over time by events with major negative impact on the region. we hope that such macro-regions will be models of good practice and success at european level, because they can benefit all their citizens and contribute to economic recovery and sustainable development through policy harmonisation and investment reorientation. on the other hand, local and regional authorities are the main actors in the area and only through effective collaboration and joint efforts can the adriatic and ionian sea region strategy be a success.
in writing. ‒ the adriatic-ionian region faces a common set of challenges, ranging from difficult political and economic circumstances, due to past historical events, to big socio-economic disparities between different countries and regions. significant infrastructure deficits exist, and there is inadequate interconnection of electricity grids. ecosystems are threatened by increased human exploitation of marine and coastal ecosystems. natural and man-made hazards are apparent. furthermore, administrative and institutional capacities at national, regional and local level need to be reinforced. i support the implementation of the eu strategy on adriatic and ionian region, as it is fundamental for blue growth, for connecting europe, for environmental quality and sustainable and competitive tourism. we should focus on the weak pillars of this strategy and make sure that it provides a comprehensive framework for a coherent macro-regional strategy, as well as an action plan for cooperation between the participating eu and third countries.
in writing. ‒ the european council of december 2012 invited the commission to present a new eu strategy for the adriatic and ionian region (eusair) before the end of 2014. i voted for this report, which will implement eusair, following the model of the eu strategy for the baltic sea region.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu strategy for the adriatic and ionian region because i consider it to be a report which brings important additions to the commission's proposal. i had the opportunity to be the rapporteur on this file in the committee on fisheries and i am familiar with the report written by my colleagues in the committee on regional development. i am pleased to note that the final report of the committee on regional development also contains the suggestions made by myself and my colleagues in the opinion report of the committee on fisheries, as the adriatic and ionian sea region is a special case in terms of pollution and available marine resources. it's a complex strategy for many reasons, but i think the main reason is that it affects both eu member states and non-member states, which don't always have the same laws or standards as ours. i believe that this report complements in essential respects the strategy proposed by the commission and i look forward to seeing the results it will produce.
in writing. ‒ the european union is a project in which the member states have placed all their hopes when they chose to become part of this continental entity governed by rules and principles. for the member countries of central and eastern europe, gaining this status was synonymous with obtaining a huge chance to develop and reach the socio-economic level of the west of the continent. eu cohesion policy is the guarantee of community assistance to reduce development gaps between regions. this is also the case for the western balkan candidate countries. the accession of croatia in 2013 is clear evidence of the eu's interest in this region. however, in order to properly manage the development gaps with the other regions of the union, a separate strategy for the area is needed, as embodied in the eu strategy for the adriatic and ionian region. the strategy will contribute to progress in identified priority areas such as the interconnection of electricity grids, the protection of marine ecosystems, the building of local administrative capacity or the development of sustainable tourism. i think it would be useful to draw up a similar strategy for the black sea region, to take account of the development of the regions in this eu border area.
in writing. ‒ the europe 2020 objectives require a detailed analysis in the mid-term review process so that their achievement takes account of the reality on the ground as much as possible. we note that some changes have occurred in the implementation of cohesion policy, due to the new global challenges we are facing and which are influencing the objectives of the strategy. the ambitious targets set in the 2020 strategy must contain concrete and easily achievable objectives and to achieve the desired result, measures such as: increasing the accountability and participation of partners, by improving transparency and involving authorities at several levels in the process of developing, implementing and evaluating the strategy. the unsatisfactory results on the ground show that the lack of administrative capacity is causing serious delays in the implementation of the set objectives. the establishment of the structural reform support service is a key boost for many member states facing dysfunctions in the implementation of the structural funds. e. i voted in favour of this report because the operational role of the support instrument is to improve the spending of eu funds by providing technical assistance to member states for a more effective implementation of structural reforms, taking into account the specific recommendations of each member state. ̆ the country.
in writing. ‒ i support the report on cohesion policy and the review of europe 2020, as cohesion policy is the key instrument for the implementation of europe 2020. it is the eu's main investment, growth and development policy, set in line with the europe 2020 strategy's objectives for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, and aims to reduce disparities between regions and promote convergence. i should mention that after the 2008 crisis, cohesion policy became the only financial resource for development policy in some member states or regions. this shows that, thanks to the cohesion policy, some investments have continued despite the drastic decrease in public funding.
in writing. ‒ in this period of economic crisis, the only source of investment for many eu countries has been and remains cohesion policy. it is a considerable support for eu countries in implementing the 2020 strategy. however, it should be borne in mind that the european parliament has an important role in overseeing the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy and cohesion policy, which is why i consider it useful to involve the legislative forum in the evaluation of policies included in the strategy, as well as in the monitoring process to identify cases of combining funding from different existing european funds. on the other hand, a consistent and continuous evaluation process is needed, allowing for a regular analysis of the progress made towards the europe 2020 targets, but also for the launching of appropriate proposals for the achievement of the objectives, where appropriate, and recommendations for the post-2020 cohesion policy. it must remain one of the eu's main investment tools for growth, job creation and climate protection, while ensuring balanced and harmonious development across the eu as a catalyst for change and a driver of prosperity.
in writing. ‒ to achieve its objective of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth for europe, the 2020 strategy correctly relies on five headline targets: employment; research and development; climate and energy; education; and the fight against poverty and social exclusion, translated by each member state into national targets. halfway to the 2020 deadline, however, the delivery of the jobs and growth objectives is still mixed, and much more needs to be done in order to achieve these goals, especially on the social aspects of the strategy. i believe that if the union wants to make progress with regard to the social and employment targets laid down in the europe 2020 strategy, the commission should come forward with an ambitious social agenda and complement the european monetary union with a strong social dimension.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that will provide an eu-wide public consultation gathering the views of all interested parties on how to develop the europe 2020 strategy over the next five years.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this own-initiative report because it underlines both the importance of cohesion policy in the 2007-13 budgetary period and its importance for the 2014-2020 budget. in this context, given that many countries have used these european funds to make investments and thus reduce the impact of the economic crisis, i believe that these funds will remain in the next period the main source of investment and development for countries such as romania. the revision of the europe 2020 strategy, as the rapporteur also states, is necessary because it was negotiated and approved in a different economic and development period to today's, so that the current strategy is not fully compatible with the realities of cohesion policy.
in writing. ‒ as the eu’s main instrument for economic growth and job creation, cohesion policy is best placed to help achieve the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. it can achieve this through its substantive budget and through its decades-long experience. unfortunately, not all member states can easily succeed in making use of the opportunities offered by the policy. this is the case of my country, which barely used 65% of the budget put at its disposal in the last programming period. therefore i can only hope, just as the report emphasizes, that the stronger link between structural and investment funds and the european semester process, the setting-up of the task force for better implementation of eu funds and the establishment of the ‘structural reform support service’ will ensure that no more opportunities for development and social cohesion are wasted in any of the member states.
in writing. ‒ the eu's cohesion policy presupposes solidarity between member states to level the playing field of their regions. this objective is consistent with the eu's europe 2020 strategy, which focuses on increasing employment, increasing investment in research and development, digitising the economy, reducing emissions, energy efficiency, reducing school dropouts, reducing poverty. however, in the context of the financial and economic crisis of recent years, the implementation of the strategy has been affected, in particular as regards funding, which is only available through the european structural and investment funds. the creation of the european fund for strategic investments has provided a new breathing space in this regard. however, a segmentation of the strategy is required to adapt it to the specificities of each region of the union. only in this way will investments be directed to the areas of real deficit, involving the optimal decision-making levels. such a debate can provide the framework for a new cohesion policy that is in sync with the multiannual financial framework and that truly meets the needs of citizens in the various parts of the european union.
in writing. i voted for the report on cohesion policy and the revision of the europe 2020 strategy. i agree with the rapporteur that cohesion policy makes a significant contribution to achieving the europe 2020 objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. i welcome the fact that the report calls, taking into account the delays and time constraints that have occurred at the beginning of the current programming period, for a comprehensive discussion on the future of eu cohesion policy after 2020 to be organised in a timely manner and aligned with the revised long-term strategy for the eu and the new mff.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy is a policy based on the provisions of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and is an expression of european solidarity, aimed at strengthening economic, social and territorial cohesion. at the same time, cohesion policy aims to reduce the gaps between regions, while also trying to promote socio-economic development in the most balanced and harmonious way possible. as there was a majority concerned that the practical implications of the rescheduling and suspension of the european structural and investment funds were being discussed, this report attempted to strike a balance between different views on the macroeconomic conditionality mechanism from the perspective of its application as a last resort within the system. i voted in favour of the report on the european structural and investment funds and good economic governance: guidelines for the application of article 23 of the common provisions regulation because the european parliament must guarantee the democracy of the application of the provisions on macroeconomic conditionality, and moreover, a constant exchange of reliable information between all stakeholders and full transparency at every stage of the process.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the active role of the european parliament in the application and monitoring of article 23 must be highlighted and supported by transparent collaboration and effective exchange of information throughout the process. on the other hand, better institutional coordination between all administrations, together with simple and transparent reprogramming processes, are essential to achieving the objectives of cohesion policy, given its role in maintaining investment in europe's regions.
in writing. ‒ the provisions regarding measures between effectiveness of the esi funds and sound economic governance – the so called macro-economic conditionality – was a very controversial aspect of the common provisions regulation (cpr) during the last ep legislative term, which s&d and most of the political groups rejected. however, the adopted cpr contain provisions (art. 23) on sound economic governance. many safeguards were obtained by the ep to make sure that this provision is only used as a ‘last resort’ measure. in the current programming period cohesion policy is closely linked with the goals of eu 2020 strategy and economic governance mechanisms. partnership agreements and operational programmes for 2014-2020 should already be in line with eu macro-economic goals, making a (frequent) reprogramming unnecessary. any reprogramming, if needed, should be kept as simple and transparent as possible. regional and local authorities should not be punished, through reprogramming or suspension of funding, as a result of macroeconomic ‘failings’ of a national government. a balance should be kept between the need for effective economic governance and cohesion policy goals.
in writing. ‒ reprogramming or suspending the structural and investment funds under article 23 of the common provisions regulation should only be used in exceptional circumstances. it is a sanctioning measure and for this reason we need such decisions to be carefully evaluated and explained in a transparent manner. cohesion policy is an essential tool in maintaining investment in europe's regions. as the commission also states, reprogramming should only take place in cases where it is very clear that it has a greater impact than the existing allocation of funds. romania is one of the countries for which absorption of structural funds is an important objective. at the end of this year we will no longer have access to unused money from the 2007-2013 programming period. part of the failure is related to the mechanisms of economic governance, but part of it is certainly reflected in the bureaucratic red tape and the changing of the rules during the game. that is why, when we discuss sanctions, i think we have to do so in the light of the multiannual and long-term nature of the programmes and objectives of the funds, adapting them to the socioeconomic conditions of each country. responsible solidarity, that is my message.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that will ensure that the main objective of cohesion is not affected and will gather and analyse data on the interactions between european economic governance processes and the aims and results of cohesion policy.
in writing. ‒ i think this report is a useful one because it highlights the importance of the structural and investment funds for the economies of many member states, but at the same time it draws attention to the need for good governance in order for these funds to bring the maximum benefits. it is also very important to understand that certain economic governance mechanisms, while relevant for macroeconomic stability, may impede the achievement of the esi funds' objectives. it is also important that measures taken at both eu and member state level provide for long-term stability and clarity, as most projects financed by these funds span long periods of time and can be easily affected by economic decisions of the moment. in this context, i considered that this report is coherent and useful for the debate on the 2014-2020 budget.
in writing. ‒ although the link between the european structural and investment funds (esi funds) and the european semester in the common provisions regulation (cpr) might seem controversial, there is evidence that sound economic governance can increase the impact of investment in economic development and job creation. if we add to this the low level of implementation of country specific recommendations, the need for such a correlation seems all the more useful. however, i agree with the view from the report that, given the long-term nature of the challenges that esi funds are intended to solve in member states, reprogramming or suspension under article 23 of the cpr should only be used in exceptional situations. i therefore welcome the cautious approach from the commission’s communication and hope that such reprogramming will be kept to the minimum necessary.
in writing. ‒ the european structural and investment funds are the key instrument for implementing the european union's cohesion policy. the funds will help to reduce the development gap between the regions of the member states and create the framework for the joint development of the european construction at socioeconomic level. however, one of the conditions for the allocation of these funds remains the need for good economic governance, which implies compliance by the state concerned with certain basic rules, generally laid down in the stability and growth pact. those rules concern certain criteria of institutional coordination, transparency and accountability. otherwise, the suspension of payments to the state concerned may be decided by the council on a proposal from the commission. however, the economic difficulties faced by a number of member states in recent years require a more careful application of these regulations, as in many cases those who suffer are those who need assistance the most. those measures must be applied in such a way as not to undermine the objective of cohesion policies. in this respect, the european parliament, as the direct representative of the citizens, should have a stronger say in assessing the compliance of member states with the economic conditions.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the european structural and investment funds and good economic governance: guidelines for the application of article 23 of the common provisions regulation. the rapporteur's concern regarding article 23 of the said regulation, which introduces macroeconomic conditionality, which should be removed, is welcomed. i agree with his approach that article 23 of the regulation should not create financial uncertainty and instability, aggravating an already precarious situation, especially in disadvantaged regions or in those most affected by the crisis. i also support his view that the situation where local or regional entities can be sanctioned with the reprogramming or suspension of funds, deteriorating their economic and social situation, due to macroeconomic failures at other levels of administration, should be rejected.
mr president, i strongly believe that, in order to ensure its effectiveness and impact, cepol’s limited resources should be focused towards a few thematic areas with a clear european added value, taking into consideration the current situation of the european union with migratory waves and other challenges to our stability, by no means duplicating the work done at the level of the member states and in line with the principle of subsidiarity. focusing on a more limited number of thematic areas would free resources to put more effort into quality and attractiveness. in order to use scarce resources efficiently, a more effective coordination among jha agencies providing training is important, exploiting synergies and eliminating duplication. finally, i believe that sufficient funding should be safeguarded for cepol to properly execute its new tasks.
madam president, the ruling of 6 october of the court of justice striking down the commission’s adequacy decision on the us safe harbour agreement confirms the longstanding doubts on the level of protection provided by this instrument. the decision was to be expected as the 2013 espionage revelations had already exposed the uselessness of the agreement’s provisions in view of the citizen surveillance programme’s massive scale. as stated by the court, permitting public authorities to have access on a generalised basis to the content of electronic communications compromises the essence of the fundamental right to privacy, while the lack of provisions on the right of citizens to complain about their data compromises the essence of the right to effective judicial protection. against the backdrop of the recent invalidation of the data retention directive, this new ruling calls for urgent action to strike the right balance between security measures and the protection of fundamental rights. considering, on the one hand, the european conviction that security measures must be pursued under the rule of law and, on the other hand, the vital importance of eu-us counter-terrorism cooperation for both partners, it is of extreme importance that we swiftly take steps to establish common standards in the field of data protection.
madam president, i strongly believe that when giving special powers and capabilities to intelligence services in democratic societies, this should be done in order to protect fundamental rights, democracy and the rule of law, citizensʼ rights and the fight against internal and external threats, and those powers must be subject to democratic accountability and judicial oversight. their application should be strictly scrutinised, as otherwise they lose legitimacy and they risk undermining our democracy. i therefore support the request for the council and the commission to let us know if they consider eu citizens to be sufficiently protected against electronic mass surveillance. it is of utmost importance that eu citizens know if there is any electronic mass surveillance they are subjected to, and in this case that institutions work together to ensure that citizensʼ fundamental rights are respected.
in writing.– this is a topic that has given rise to a lot of debates all over europe. as afet co-rapporteur for this resolution, i advocated the necessity to maintain equilibrium in the final text between the two priorities that seem to collide in this situation. i consider that the amendments proposed by the socialists and the left-wing political groups represent a significant modification of the text in relation to the initial goal. a resolution dedicated to the issue of mass surveillance of european citizens cannot end up by calling for the suspension of the tftp agreement, ttip agreement negotiations or the replacement of proprietary software with open-source software in all the eu institutions. there is the justified need of privacy for the 500 million european citizens. and there are the new security threats, from cybernetic war to online recruitment and proselytising by terrorist groups. in the middle lies a reality: the same way the usa needs the eu, the eu needs to have a strong and healthy relation with the united states. these partnerships, despite the inevitable disagreements, give strength to both sides of the atlantic and are envied by all of those who are promoters of ‘divide et impera’.
mr president, the european semester has indeed become an effective instrument for coordinating the economic policies of the member states, and i would like to point out here that the vice-president of the european commission, mr dombrovskis, has identified a weak point in this process, namely the role of the national parliaments. he promised to go to the member states to discuss these issues with the national parliaments. why would you do that? because in some member states the national parliaments are not involved in the european semester as of spring. governments submit proposals for national reform programmes, as well as proposals for convergence or stability programmes, as appropriate, directly to the european commission without national parliaments being aware of what is proposed in these programmes. consequently, national parliaments only appear in the process in the autumn, when governments present their draft budgets for adoption, and then the reaction is usually negative: or some measure is imposed from somewhere by the european commission and so on. i therefore welcome mr dombrovskis' initiative to have more communication with the national parliaments.
blue-card question.– in fact i would like to ask our friend mr urbán crespo, who was mentioning equalities and poverty and so on and so forth, what his opinion is about the expansion of zero-hour contracts, because i believe first of all that all types of contractual arrangements should give workers access to a core set of rights and adequate social protection.
mr president, i too welcome parliament’s report, and i would also like to talk about the european semester in broader terms and to reflect on how we could further integrate the process of economic policy coordination, because the economies of eu member states are so interdependent. the country-specific recommendations (csrs) are, of course, an important tool. however, we complain that they are not respected by member states and that member states are not ambitious enough. i believe we need to ask ourselves why this is happening. it is not only the content of the csrs, but also the design of the process. the question is, how shall we design a better economic policy coordination process? we should eliminate the perception that it is a top-down process from the level of the eu. i believe we should have two stages of the european semester. a first round of recommendations which sets out the reasons why the country-level recommendations need to be fulfilled in the second stage, and in addition we need more parliamentary control and involvement in this process. secondly, in order to have more concrete solutions, we need a comprehensive evaluation of the european semester and the csrs in order to understand their relevance to member states and to adjust the process. member states also need incentives for action. the question is, how can we make member states own the process more? i think a more in-depth evaluation that looks at improving the behaviour of the member states and the process is much needed.
mr president, i would like to welcome mr rosati’s own—initiative report. taking into account the latest budgetary measures adopted, it has been necessary to introduce them in the objectives of the annual growth survey. although the economic recovery is slowly gaining ground and we face tremendous challenges – and i refer here to migration – the fundamentals of the recovery are delicate due to european union structural weaknesses and regional economic discrepancies. therefore, i am glad that the report includes several elements of a new economic policy direction that strengthens the synergy of member states’ national policies – more investment and less austerity, recognition of the real consequence of front—loaded austerity measures, and surplus countries to make more effort in pushing demand. i also consider the removal of further fiscal consolidation, and of criticism of rigid labour laws and trade unions, to be an improvement in the report.
madam president, my notes were in english, but as i have great respect for you, allow me to express myself in french. on this subject, dear friends, dear colleagues, you should know that when my children go to school in the morning, because of the change of time, they leave when it is no longer night but already day. and i'd rather my kids go to school during the day than at night. at the same time, i believe that these influences should be analysed in depth, because they are largely positive influences. i believe that given the situation we are in in europe today, the question of migration, the greek debt crisis, the economic situation, unemployment, social conditions and so on, i do not think that this is the time to discuss this again. and at the same time i must say that i do not agree with the commission's arrogance in this matter.
25 years ago, the internet was science fiction. it is now indispensable for economic development and at the same time has many other effects on society, including negative ones. hence the need to be regulated. rpas is a similar example. 25 years ago, a drone was a rare and expensive weapon. a few years ago, they were shy civilian trials. since then, there's been a technological boom, and today drones are a commonplace item. the areas where we find them are very diverse, they contribute to economic growth, but at the same time, they also cause problems, some of them quite serious, if you think about privacy or flight safety. they are needed, but we must also protect ourselves from them. this phenomenon cannot be stopped and will very soon become a mass phenomenon. it is obvious that regulation is necessary. the report we are discussing today, i think, is very good and deals with all aspects of this phenomenon, it suggests good bases for future regulations. the commission has to approach these regulations in a special way because of the special characteristics of this object; we are talking about an aircraft. so the rules have to deal with construction, certification of equipment and personnel, security issues, issues related to the economic fields where they're used, separation: civil, military, economic or pleasure, a complex regulation that doesn't have to be drawn up superficially, but it also doesn't have to be delayed very long.
the use of unmanned aerial systems is undoubtedly an important step towards the future aviation market. in recent years, this technology has been developed very much for military purposes, but it has tremendous potential to be used for civilian purposes, that is, in everyday life. sectors such as transport and agriculture, as well as human rescue, can benefit from these versatile aircraft, limiting the risk of human operation and increasing efficiency through access to hard-to-reach areas. this emerging market also brings with it the need for regulation to ensure the safety, security and respect for privacy, as well as the protection of data of european citizens. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the prevention of accidents and incidents in civil aviation. while i am convinced that the hardware and software performance of aircraft will evolve in the near future, we need to agree on some minimum standards with regard to the conditions for pilot certification and aircraft identification and operation. thank you. thank you.
madam president, clearly it is about time to have a harmonised and proportionate eu regulatory framework on the use of remotely piloted aircraft systems (rpas) and to set out clear guidelines to the commission for outlining the upcoming aviation package expected by the end of 2015. in order to reach this objective we must follow a risk-based approach, in line with the riga declaration, ensuring safety. at the same time, we must guarantee adequate protection of citizens, which means respecting the fundamental rights of privacy and data protection. we have to ensure that investments and innovation in the industry are stimulated, and we must make efforts to create sustainable and innovative jobs. i support the compromises included in the report, such as the commission’s removal of the 150kg threshold, and the provision on ‘detect and avoid technology’ for rpas.
member of the commission.– madam president, members of parliament, i would like to thank you and in particular the rapporteur, ms de monte, for this excellent report. i fully share your views on the importance of the eu tourism sector. the travel and tourism sector makes a very substantial contribution to european economies. in 2014 its direct, indirect and induced impacts supported 33.5 million jobs. moreover, in the same period it also contributed more than eur 1.3 trillion to the economy, making up almost 10% of total european gdp. by 2025 the travel and tourism sector's total economic contribution is expected to grow to 38 million jobs and eur 2.1 trillion. in addition, travel and tourism is key to the recovery of those countries that have been hit hardest by recession and the euro zone crisis. 20% of employees in the european tourism industry are aged below 25. tourism is therefore an important entry point to the labour market. tourism has also significant spill—over benefits for the cultural and creative industries, including fashion and high-end products – agrifoods, transport, construction, shipbuilding or retail. therefore tourism has a huge potential to generate economic growth and create jobs. but although europe is still the number one destination, we should not rest on our laurels. we have to address important challenges – competition from emerging destinations is increasing. in 2000 the eu had 51% of the worldʼs tourism market; today we are below 40% and forecasts indicate a further drop to 31% by 2030. to attract new investment and ensure faster growth, we must increase the number of travellers from key markets such as china, india or the us. for this to happen, we need to strengthen our promotional activities. in doing so, we should consider that 99% of the tourist sector is made up of smes and 90% of them have fewer than 10 employees. it is important that we improve the business environment, not least by ensuring a well—functioning single market for services. the commission adopted the new single market strategy just two days ago. we have to fully capitalise on the potential offered by this strategy, ensuring effective enforcement of single market principles and rules, extending also to tourism services. we must continue to work on the issue of over—regulation and cut down red tape where possible. at the same time we must ensure that the principles of the small business act are fully implemented in the tourism sector. we should also follow market trends and enable the development of new innovative business models and take on board the advantages of the digital revolution. especially in this case digitalisation will be a key driver of the sector’s competitiveness. we must help tourism-related smes to seize the opportunities offered by the digital revolution. we wish to embrace the opportunities created by the sharing economy, including for the eu tourism industry. at the same time, we must create a level playing field for all actors and make sure that public and consumer interests are properly reflected. to compete with new emerging destinations were must invest in high-quality offerings and improve infrastructure, resource efficiency and skills. to that end it is essential to ensure better access to finance. there is a serious mismatch between the demand for and the supply of skilled labour in the sector. erasmus+ and the european social fund play a key role in the upgrading of skills, including digital skills, as well as in training and workforce mobility. we have helped to define tourism qualifications and developed a skill passport to help match businesses with job-seekers. we are also promoting high-quality cross-border traineeships and the smooth entry into the labour market for young professionals through a digital platform. there is a strong added value in promotion activities carried out jointly with public and private stakeholders. american and asian tourists want to come to europe and visit more than one country. we should preserve, and capitalise on, our unique cultural and natural heritage and diversity. we should invest more in joint promotion in close collaboration with member states, regions and the industry.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for the imco commission, i would like to stress that for the internal market, for the european union, this report is very welcome. there has been too little talk in the european parliament about tourism, and the european commission has done too little about policies to promote tourism, to promote europe as a tourist destination. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation in the member states. many member states, including their home countries, have untapped potential, which is why in the opinion report i proposed concrete measures to promote europe as a tourist destination, a branding strategy. the european union must be prepared to exploit the potential in third countries with a large population. new concepts for promoting tourism in europe can lead to economic development and job creation in poorer, rural areas with significant tourism potential. i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs and isabelle de monte for a full report and i hope that this report will be voted on today.
the commission has also proposed that the court of justice should be able to rule on the question of the legality of the aid. dear colleague, you have spoken of investments and i am very glad. do you not think that we should ask the commission, since we have a commissioner for transport and tourism, to make sure that transport investments are linked and targeted at tourist destinations? and, you said health, don't you understand that there is also a prevention in health? and that's what we're talking about. because when you go on vacation, i think it helps to have a health prevention package. prevention is cheaper than treatment.
the commission has also proposed that the court of justice should be able to rule on the question of the legality of the aid. my dear colleague, it is clear that you have mixed up the plans: the migration problem with the tourism problem. i ask you a clear question: did you like the solidarity that was in your case? romania, for example, came with many tourists to you and other countries in europe came with tourists just to help greece. do you like this solidarity or not?
madam president, as co-chair of the intergroup for the development of european tourism, i would like to tell you that this sector needs more strategic attention, more funds and more investment, but above all, more courage and more involvement from all the european institutions. this report is the result of the joint efforts of many members of the european parliament, civil society and the private sector to keep europe as the world's number one tourist destination. i want to emphasize a few clear and priority points: 1. call on the european commission to support the designation of a european year of cultural heritage and tourism to promote our tourism potential, especially in less visible areas of europe such as bukovina, maramureș or transylvania; 2. encourage the commission to draw up a new european tourism strategy, one adapted to the changes which have taken place in recent years; 3. lay the foundations for a common european tourism brand for a united promotion of the diversity and unique experiences offered by the member states.
madam president, regarding the annual european forum on tourism i believe that it is absolutely necessary to promote europe as the worldʼs number one tourist destination. in order to take steps forward in that direction we have to act in the fields of the sharing economy, digitisation, and sustainable and responsible tourism. we must promote and preserve europeʼs cultural heritage. this is very important, especially in these times when europe is facing so many challenges. it has to be our priority, considering that many cultural sites lack funds and are not properly protected by national or local authorities and are therefore in danger of collapsing. we must support vocational training and education, especially in those countries most affected by the crisis, where young graduates with arts and culture degrees, and experts and researchers, face serious problems of long-term unemployment.
member of the commission.– madam president, honourable members, allow me to address you for the fourth time today with an equally important topic. the commission considers that satellite-based technology for global flight tracking is a positive development. in the aftermath of the june 2009 accident involving air france flight 447, europe launched extensive work on options both for tracking aircraft and for localising an airplane in distress. the disappearance of malaysia airlines flight 370 in march 2014 has contributed to fast-tracking of the regulatory process at eu level. a committee opinion delivered on 9 july 2015 endorsed the commission’s proposal to amend commission regulation (eu) no 965/2012 regarding requirements for flight records, underwater locating devices and aircraft tracking systems. both in terms of legislation and research our work is performance—based. this means that it does not favour any specific commercial or technical solution as long as the technology used by operators is fit for the desired purpose. our rules will both provide the necessary flexibility and accommodate a number of technical options – existing ones as well as future ones such as galileo search and rescue and/or satellite-based ads, type b. such rules, supported by the member states, would be based on the following three principles: first, the requirements must be technologically neutral and performance based. they will be defined to ensure that large public transport aircraft automatically transmit sufficient trajectory information regularly and accurately enough for search and rescue and investigation purposes. second, provided that the relevant equipment can be operated safely, the requirement should specify that it should have a backup power supply and it should not be possible to disable the flight tracking functions. this apparently occurred during the malaysia airlines flight. third, the requirements must allow air carriers and aircraft manufacturers to opt for the most cost-efficient solutions. the text of the commission proposal has already been submitted to the european parliament and council for scrutiny. on that basis, comprehensive legislation should be adopted and published before the end of the year. the international civil aviation organisation (icao) is also updating international rules accordingly. furthermore, we are working actively to provide passengers with internet connections, both terrestrial and satellite solutions. such systems can support advanced data communication between air and ground. this will eventually make it possible for flights to be fully monitored in real time from the ground. to return to the subject of space—based atsb technology, although this remains an interesting option, the commission would like to underline that it is one of several possible solutions. the commission has set out various options in a technical working paper provided to icao. concerning the commission’s position at the world radio communication conference, the european union as such does not have voting rights in the itu. on monday, 26 october the council adopted conclusions for the world radio communication conference, but this topic is not addressed. we therefore welcome the european parliament resolution and we will work together with member states at the world radio communication conference to ensure that it is coherently supported during the negotiations. to sum up, the commission supported the protection of ads type b at the world radio communication conference and consequently in the itu radio regulation. we also know that during the preparations for the world radio communications conference member states signalled their support for allocation for satellite reception of automatic dependent surveillance broadcast atsb emissions from aircraft limited to messages transmitted in accordance with icao standards. that will conclude my report.
on behalf of the epp group. madam president, i regret to have to mention two sad events, two air accidents, one in the atlantic and the other in the pacific. one of the planes has been located after years of searching, the other has not been found yet. the reason is the lack of a system to ensure a global and permanent tracking of flights, the positioning of aircraft is possible only in 30% of the airspace. oceans and part of africa are not covered due to lack of technical possibilities and lack of land equipment. a poor and expensive system is used which records a relatively accurate position of aircraft at long intervals and results in inefficient use of airspace. we have a technical solution that can provide global coverage, ads-b, a system that is already used on the ground and may be used in the future on satellite systems. the modifications to the flight apparatus are minimal. a frequency band allocation is needed, which is being done by the international telecommunications organization within the framework of the world radiocommunication conference. the conference will take place in november 2015. the next one's in four years. it is obvious that this allocation must be made this year so as not to lose another four years. the use of the new system brings a significant increase in safety in air transport, a highly effective tool for rescue operations, as well as an optimisation of flights in general and especially trans-oceanic flights. the commission has also received comments from the air safety committee and the air safety committee of the european union. we welcome the commission's position and ask it to make the necessary efforts with the member states to support this position in the international conference.
mr president, the effects of cross-border tax evasion and the effects of unfair tax competition have increased in recent years. member states do not now spontaneously communicate their own tax decisions. this report is very good because it defines the tax decision; a confirmation or an assurance that the tax authorities give to taxpayers about how their taxes are calculated, precisely so that the lack of transparency no longer reduces the tax contribution. tax revenues are considerably reduced and prevent member states from applying fiscal policies that lead to economic growth. who's the loser? obviously, we lose, the citizens, because we are taxed more for products. transparency is a key aspect of the exchange of information and as such all information should be made available to member states to take action against these practices, namely tax evasion.
mr president, we have again refused to grant the council and the european council discharge for 2013. this is the seventh year in a row that the european parliament has refused to give the council and the european council discharge. and that's because the member states that make up the council refuse to provide parliament with data on how they spent the money. it is a pity that a gentlemen's agreement of 1970 is invoked, which states that the member states and parliament will never control each other. the world has changed, we already have an article in the treaty that says that parliament must control how money is used by all the european institutions, including the council. the problem is that after seven years we refuse to discharge, but the council is still functioning. so we have to do something else to stop this state of illegality, like not approving their budget.
in writing. ‒ the proposal to modernise the legislative framework of the european police college (cepol) is the right step for the european commission to take in view of the current challenges of serious cross-border and organised crime. to meet these challenges, an efficient cepol agency with adequate staffing is needed. the modernised legislative framework proposed by cepol, which enables it to implement the law enforcement training programme and to bring services to the wider european community with law enforcement responsibilities, meets the present needs. i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the european union agency for law enforcement training (cepol) and repealing and replacing council decision 2005/681/jha because i believe that cepol should not only serve as a support platform for cooperation between national bodies but also be firmly involved in the implementation and service processes at european level.
in writing. ‒ i strongly believe that, in order to ensure its effectiveness and impact, cepol’s limited resources should be focused on a few thematic areas with a clear european added-value, by no means duplicating the work done at the level of the member states, and in line with the principle of subsidiarity. focusing on a more limited number of thematic areas would free resources to put more effort into quality and attractiveness. in order to use scarce resources efficiently, a more effective coordination among jha agencies providing training is important, exploiting synergies and eliminating duplication. finally, i believe that sufficient funding should be safeguarded for cepol to properly execute its new tasks.
in writing. ‒ the european police college (cepol) is the agency responsible for law enforcement training. cepol is not a training institute in the traditional sense of the word – its courses take place across the eu, mainly implemented by a network of national police training colleges. i have voted for this report that will identify and address gaps in existing law enforcement training on cross-border matters by supporting and coordinating the delivery of training by european and national centres of excellence.
in writing. ‒ the european police college (cepol) is the agency responsible for law enforcement training. although cepol’s budget is about eur 8.5 million, the institution contributes to training police enforcement personnel in skills that are needed for meeting future challenges and safeguarding the security of our citizens the current proposed regulation aligns cepol with the lisbon treaty, by modernising its legal basis and entrusting cepol with the implementation of the principles of the new law enforcement training scheme. this procedure would enable cepol to effectively implement the law enforcement training scheme and to serve the broader european law enforcement community, and at the same time deliver its contribution to the construction of a genuine european law enforcement culture. now, more than ever, we need skilled police enforcement to counter the growing threat of terrorism, transnational and organised crime, and other security challenges. for this reason i voted in favour of this current report.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a regulation establishing the european union agency for law enforcement training (cepol) provides a legal framework for a new cepol with broader objectives and a more modern governance model, which repeals and replaces cepol as established by council decision 2005/681/jha. the european police college (cepol) is the agency responsible for law enforcement training, with its courses taking place in all member states of the union, mainly provided by a network of training colleges belonging to the national police. the proposed regulation provides for the extension of cepol's mandate to enable it to conduct and coordinate learning activities for law enforcement personnel of all ranks, as well as for customs and other relevant categories of officials dealing with cross-border issues. cepol's objectives are also updated and clarified so that the agency addresses specific thematic areas in criminal or police matters where eu-level training can bring added value over national levels. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the global financial crisis of 2007-2008 has exposed excessive speculative activity, serious regulatory gaps, an ineffective supervisory framework, opaque markets and overly complicated products in the financial system. in this context, the european union has adopted a number of measures to strengthen and stabilise the banking system. furthermore, the union wishes to strengthen capital requirements, rules on improved governance and measures on banking supervision and resolution regimes. i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the reporting and transparency of financial instruments financing operations, as there is a need to improve transparency and monitoring in this regard, in compliance with the fundamental rights and principles recognised in the charter of fundamental rights of the eu, in particular the right to the protection of personal data and to respect for private and family life.
in writing. ‒ i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the outcome of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on reporting and transparency of securities financing transactions, building up transparency, regulation and supervision of sft in central reporting. i would like to express my strong support for the following additions to the original commission proposal: first of all, the extension of the regulation’s objective by including new financial operations within the range of sfts and requiring reports of transactions from all the entities engaged in sfts with exception of smes and escb; secondly, the reporting obligations of information to the competent authority as soon as it is possible; thirdly, the preparation of a report from the commission on the introduction of a haircuts framework that includes also developments at international level and in particular the ongoing work of the financial stability board on this subject; last but not least, the granting of a phased implementation of the sft regulation by type of counterparty, linking it to the finalisation of level 2 measures.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on reporting and transparency of securities financing transactions.
in writing. ‒ in an increasingly globalised world, security measures are becoming a necessity, especially those related to the fight against terrorism. they should be applied taking into account privacy and data protection, fundamental rights on the one hand, and respecting the rule of law and fundamental rights obligations on the other. since july 2013, the civil liberties and home affairs committee, which is charged with investigating the mass electronic surveillance of eu citizens, has held 15 hearings and relied on statements from eu and us experts: academics, journalists, civil society, security and technology specialists. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the follow-up to the european parliament resolution of 12 march 2014 on the electronic mass surveillance of eu citizens, as it calls on the commission to communicate the 13 recommendations on mass surveillance and the possibility of extending habeas corpus as a fundamental legal instrument to guarantee the freedom of the individual from arbitrary state action, adaptable to the digital age, especially when the right to privacy and respect for the integrity and dignity of citizens are at stake.
in writing. ‒ i strongly believe that, when giving special powers and capabilities to intelligence services in democratic societies, this should be done in order to protect fundamental rights, democracy and the rule of law, citizens’ rights and the state against internal and external threats, and those powers must be subject to democratic accountability and judicial oversight; their application should be strictly scrutinised, as otherwise they lose legitimacy and they risk undermining democracy. i therefore support the request to the council and to the commission to let us know if they consider eu citizens to be sufficiently protected against electronic mass surveillance. it is of the utmost importance that eu citizens know if there is any electronic mass surveillance they are subjected to, and in this case, that institutions work together to ensure that citizens’ fundamental rights are respected.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this resolution that calls for the immediate suspension of the safe harbour decision as it does not provide adequate protection of personal data for eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i consider the way in which the situation has been handled and the decisions taken following the revelations about the surveillance of eu officials by the us to be unacceptable. i have opposed and will always oppose mass surveillance of citizens because i believe there are sufficient legal means by which intelligence services can do their job and identify potential dangers without trampling on the rights and freedoms of citizens. in this context, and in the wake of the revelations made by edward snowden and wikileaks that the nsa has been surveilling all french state structures for the past 10 years, it is difficult for me to understand how france passed a new law in june 2015 expanding the surveillance capabilities of the national intelligence services. i want us to live in safe societies, where potential dangers to society and the state are identified and eliminated, but i cannot accept that on the basis of this argument the right to privacy of bona fide citizens is violated.
in writing. ‒ the eu budget should give priority to coordinated stimulation of private investment, maintaining commitments to structural reforms and adopting a policy of fiscal responsibility. in this context, 2015 saw significant budgetary allocations, both in the budget dedicated to cohesion policy, by transferring to the current financial year unused commitment appropriations from the previous programming period, and by the adoption of the european fund for strategic investments regulation, as well as increased funding dedicated to the eradication of youth unemployment. the limitation of the number of priorities and the publication of the country-specific and euro area-specific analysis at an earlier timeframe than in previous years confirm the functioning of the mechanism underpinning the european semester. i believe that by facilitating access to finance for smes and implementing a monetary policy aimed at stimulating investment and requiring rapid implementation of recent measures, the european semester remains an important factor of growth and economic consolidation. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the member states must contribute more to the implementation of structural reforms, with a view to increasing the competitiveness of enterprises and increasing employment.
in writing. ‒ i would like to welcome the own-initiative report by mr rosati. taking into account the latest budgetary measures adopted, it has been necessary to introduce them into the objectives of the annual growth survey. although the economic recovery is slowly gaining ground, the fundaments of the recovery are delicate due to the eu’s structural weaknesses and regional economic discrepancies. therefore, i am glad that the report includes several elements of a new economic policy direction that strengthens the synergy of member states’ national policies: more investment and less austerity, recognition of the real consequence of frontloaded austerity measures, and surplus countries to make more efforts in pushing demand. i consider an improvement of the report the removal of further fiscal consolidation, and the criticism of rigid laws on labour and trade unions. labour market reforms should be sustainable by increasing investment alongside reform of national labour markets, and taking measures to boost the economy in order to increase job creation rates. however, i have to say that i am concerned about the expansion of ‘zero-hour contracts’ because i believe that all types of contractual arrangements should give workers access to a core set of rights and adequate social protection.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on the european semester for economic policy coordination: implementation of 2015 priorities because it would have instated structural reforms that are a serious condition for eu initiatives such as efsi.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i felt that it did not present the necessary clarity that such a report could have. the rapporteur has correctly identified certain economic concerns at eu level, but has unfortunately gone further by adding to this report many issues that require wider debate. unfortunately, this report covers too wide a range of issues, including subjects on which i have a different political position; so i had to vote against this document.
in writing. ‒ i was glad to vote in favour of this report. i believe that in the context of the low economic growth and persisting high unemployment rates currently witnessed across europe, it places the right emphasis on the need to implement necessary structural reforms, to boost investments, to ensure fiscal responsibility and to promote flexible labour markets. the report also rightly points out that sound economic governance is needed in order to ensure that investments made through the european structural and investment funds, and the european fund for structural investments bring about the anticipated results. finally, i agree that the commission should tackle the issue of the country specific recommendations' low implementation level in several member states as such failings lead to maintaining obstacles to growth and investment-friendly environments.
in writing. ‒ the european semester provides the opportunity to ensure that economic policy is coordinated at the eu level through a combination of macro-economic and fiscal tools. as a part of the annual procedure, country-specific recommendations are given to member states on measures to boost growth and maintain sound public finances. these recommendations are based on the policy priorities identified in the commission’s last annual growth survey and have been endorsed by the european council. the economic forecasts for 2016 indicate signs of slow economic recovery, with 2.1% in the eu and 1.9% in the euro area. while this modest growth is owing to fiscal and structural reforms undertaken by many member states, more actions are needed to ensure the foundations of the economic recovery are solid. to achieve that will require a change in the direction of the eu’s economic policy. as a social democrat, i welcome the current report, and the main elements of this new policy: more investment and less austerity, implementation of structural reforms in the labour markets, improving employment policy particularly for the youth and long-term unemployed. i believe the four key priorities for economic growth will help to address the growth drivers that can allow the sustainable recovery europe urgently needs.
in writing. ‒ long-term unemployment has had different effects at member state level, taking into account various factors such as the effects of the economic crisis, the macroeconomic situation, the economic structure and the functioning of national labour markets. the identification of an action plan to identify integration policies must take these aspects into account and a single formula for this purpose would not give the expected results. vulnerable groups are particularly at risk of long-term unemployment and social policies are required to support them, with priority programmes for social reintegration. long-term unemployment creates major imbalances that lead to social exclusion and, unfortunately, the effects are felt in the growth and education of children. the increase in the period of unemployment corresponds to the deepening of the crisis faced by the families facing this problem. the fight against long-term unemployment involves a set of measures aimed at structural reforms, comprising joint actions in the economic, employment, budgetary policy and investment in human capital sectors. i voted in favour of this resolution in the belief that a multi-sectoral strategy is the concrete solution to this challenge.
in writing. ‒ i strongly believe that we must deal efficiently with the multiple barriers many long-term unemployed people face, such as poverty, skills erosion and health problems. i support the possibility of creating sustainable jobs for the long-term unemployed, especially in countries and regions with high structural unemployment. we need more flexibility in national budgetary rules and to improve the link between skills and jobs for the reintegration and employability of the long-term unemployed. member states should ensure the quality of jobs for the long-term unemployed and avoid them ending up in precarious employment. considering long-term unemployed differences between member states, our goal must be a successful implementation across them, ensuring identification and exchange of best practices. the situation of long-term unemployed citizens must be improved, by all means.
in writing. ‒ i have voted against this motion for a resolution on the integration of the long-term unemployed into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the integration of long-term unemployed into the labour market because romania, like other eu countries that are not among the countries with the highest long-term unemployment, has problems with managing these citizens and reintegrating them into the labour market. it is very difficult for someone who has been unemployed for more than 18 months to find a job, and this is aggravated over time by the erosion of skills. long-term unemployment also entails very high costs for national budgets, resulting in reduced or no benefits being paid. in these circumstances, i support the rapporteur's position, which expresses concern about the difficulty and delay with which the commission and the council are proposing measures to reintegrate these citizens into the labour market as quickly as possible. i also think it is very important that all these unemployment measures are also taken for those who have been unemployed for less than 12 months, thus preventing them from becoming long-term unemployed.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report because it acknowledges one of the most serious problems of our labour markets today. although unemployment has been diminishing in many parts of the european union, long-term unemployment is increasingly prevalent. according to eurofund, in 2014, 49% of the unemployed in europe were long-term unemployed, a trend on the increase. research demonstrates that long-term absence from the labour market usually leads to a poor employment outlook, a diminished future salary and even disengagement from society. this is why i am glad the commission in its proposal has started to recognise the severity of this problem.
in writing. ‒ since 2007, as a result of the economic crisis and its consequences, long-term unemployment has doubled and now accounts for half of total unemployment. more specifically, over 12 million people are currently unemployed. the statistics also show that in 2014, more than 60% of the total long-term unemployed had been out of work for at least two consecutive years. the resolution welcomes the commission's initiative to propose a council recommendation on the integration of the long-term unemployed into the labour market. the proposals contained in this recommendation are very ambitious, but a sustained effort by member states is needed to ensure that they are indeed implemented and enforced. at the same time, the economic recovery needs to become more dynamic, as it does not currently provide sufficient incentives to significantly reduce the high rate of structural unemployment. through its provisions, the resolution calls on the european commission to examine options for rapid access to eu funding and to mobilise additional resources where possible, as has been the case with the 'youth jobs' initiative.
in writing. ‒ drones or remotely piloted aircraft systems (rpas) are a subject of interest to us and should be given increased attention. i agree that the use of drones has benefits such as a real chance to stimulate job creation and a source of innovation and economic growth for the coming years, but we must also consider the challenges of these types of remotely piloted aircraft. these are safety, security and respect for citizens' rights, issues that need to be addressed before civilian drones can be used on a large scale in the european union. i voted in favour of the report on the safe use of remotely piloted aircraft systems (sapd) in civil aviation because, like the rapporteur, i am in favour of them and recognise their benefits, but i believe that a number of appropriate policies are absolutely necessary to protect privacy and ensure data protection.
in writing. ‒ clearly it is about time to have a harmonised and proportionate eu regulatory framework on the use of remotely piloted aircraft systems and to set out clear guidelines to the commission for the outlining of the upcoming aviation package, expected by the end of 2015. in order to reach this objective, we must ensure a ‘risk-based approach’ in line with the riga declaration ensuring ‘safety’; we must guarantee an adequate protection of citizens which respects fundamental rights of privacy and data protection; we have to ensure that investments and innovation in the industry are stimulated; and we must make efforts in order to create sustainable and innovative jobs. i support the compromises included in the report, such as the removal of the 150 kg threshold by the commission, and the ‘detect-and-avoid’ technology for rpas flying beyond visual line of sight.
in writing. ‒ a vote for a timely piece of legislation creating the legal context for the development of an important technology of the future. it is all too often that legislators fail to react in time to technological change by creating the necessary rules for progress to take place in a way that is acceptable to society. the speed of law-making has become one of the variables defining and determining competitiveness in the global arena.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that will better regulate eu wide rules on safety authorisations, safeguarding privacy and data protection on the use of remotely piloted aircraft systems.
in writing. ‒ the use of unmanned aerial systems is undoubtedly an important step towards the future aviation market. this technology has been developed a lot in recent years for military purposes, but it has tremendous potential for civilian use, in other words, in everyday life. sectors such as transport and agriculture can benefit from these versatile aircraft, limiting the risk of human operation and increasing efficiency by accessing hard-to-reach areas. human rescue is another positive example on the list of these benefits. this emerging market brings with it the need for regulation to ensure the safety, security and respect for the privacy and data protection of european union citizens. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the prevention of accidents and incidents in civil aviation. while i am convinced that the hardware and software performance of aircraft will evolve in the near future, we need to agree on some minimum standards with regard to the conditions for pilot certification and for aircraft identification and operation.
in writing. ‒ while in 2008 tourism provided 5.8% of existing jobs in the european union and contributed more than 5% to european gdp, today the same sector provides 12% of jobs in the eu and contributes more than 10% to the union's gdp. these percentages show us progress and the important role tourism plays in the european economy. the european tourism industry is facing a number of challenges and opportunities which require a more focused approach at european level, while respecting the distinctive differences of each member state at all levels, taking into account the eu motto 'unity in diversity'. i support the report on the new challenges and concepts for promoting tourism in europe, because i am aware that this sector can play a key role in addressing the current economic crisis and in terms of employment at eu level.
in writing. ‒ in view of the annual european forum on tourism, i believe it is absolutely necessary to promote europe as the world’s number one tourist destination. to take steps in that direction, we have to act in the fields of the sharing economy, digitisation and sustainable and responsible tourism. we must promote and preserve europe’s cultural heritage. this must be our priority, considering that many cultural sites lack funds, are not properly protected by national or local authorities and risk collapse. we must support professional training and education, especially in those countries most affected by the crisis and where young graduates in the arts and culture, experts and researchers face serious problems of long-term unemployment. lastly, i support the request included in the report for specific tourism products to counteract seasonality and i welcome existing initiatives, such as calypso, to promote social tourism.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that will instate pan-european and transnational tourism products and sustainable and responsible tourism, taking into consideration that europe’s international visitors find themselves under increasing pressure from other international destinations, in particular from newly—emerging, less expensive destinations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because tourism is one of the economic sectors of major importance to the economies of the member states. in the case of romania, tourism is a sector with currently untapped development potential that could be helped by any future eu-wide tourism strategy. by its very nature, tourism helps to develop regions through its horizontal and vertical economic multiplication; therefore, for romania, together with the cohesion and regional development funds, an eu-wide tourism promotion strategy could bring benefits beyond expectations. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on tourism and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on tourism. as the rapporteur also points out in this document, tourism is indirectly funded by several eu funds but the invitation to the commission to develop a strategy for this area could help to better focus resources and bring better results.
in writing. ‒ the tourism sector makes an estimated contribution of 10% to the eu’s gdp. it employs approximately 5.2% of the total workforce, corresponding to roughly 10 million jobs, involving 1.8 million businesses. whereas other sectors in our economy still face difficulties, the tourism industry is one of the few sectors which continue to grow and create thousands of jobs in spite of the economic crisis. while acknowledging the opportunities provided by the tourism industry, we must also pay attention to the difficulties it is facing. connectivity, sustainability, seasonality and shortage of skilled labour are few challenges which, if dealt with correctly, can help support the competiveness of our industry. these issues are addressed in the current report, which i voted in favour of. along with those previously mentioned, the report also addresses the issues of sharing economy, digitisation, responsible tourism, and the promotion of europe. adopting this report sends a strong message of support from our parliament to the tourism industry. our investment will not go in vain, for it will help back the tourism sector, its competiveness and, ultimately, europe’s position as the world’s number one tourist destination.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the development of satellite technology to underpin global flight tracking systems because the recent tragedies, namely malaysia airlines and air france flight 447, in which hundreds of people lost their lives, show us that new tools are needed to make the air system more robust and capable of avoiding future dangers to passengers. the competent authorities need to find the best solutions to provide the safest travel conditions for passengers and aircrew. without concerted action we cannot prevent, we can only detect the effects and this can only be done by using advanced technologies!
in writing. ‒ considering recent airplane accidents, it is clear that there are vulnerabilities in the current air navigation systems that hamper timely identification and localisation of aircraft in distress. this issue must be addressed as soon as possible in order to avoid tragedies in the future. i therefore support technologies, like the satellite ads-b (automatic dependent surveillance – broadcast), that can help governments, air navigation service providers, as well as airlines in europe and around the world to increase air traffic management efficiency and capacity, and significantly enhance aviation safety, all while lowering infrastructure costs. i therefore support the call to eliminate regulatory barriers to satellite-based flight—tracking systems, a technology that can provide life-saving services for eu citizens, and the allocation of the necessary radio spectrum band to support the future development of satellite-based technology to enable global flight—tracking systems.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this motion for a resolution on the allocation by the world radiocommunication conference, to be held in geneva from 2 to 27 november 2015 (wrc-15), of the necessary radio spectrum band to support the future development of satellite-based technology to enable global flight-tracking systems.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i took the floor because i was the one who asked the european parliament, together with other romanian meps, to commemorate the 50 people who have already lost their lives as a result of the tragic fire that took place on friday, 30 october, in a pub in the romanian capital. dozens of people, mostly young people of my generation, are still struggling between life and death, and a message from you is a sign of solidarity for romanian society, in this extremely tragic context for my country. i want to thank all the member states who have offered their assistance to support us in these extremely difficult times.
blue-card question.– in fact i was listening to our colleague, mr rosati, and i thank you for accepting the question. speaking about more jobs, social security, growth and so on, i would like to ask him his opinion on whether the commission should have to take into consideration the lack of crisis management response, considering the migrants that have come, are still coming, and will come in the next year, to europe. how will this influence the growth of european employment and so on?
mr president, the european semester is one of our most important tools in tackling structural weaknesses, achieving sustainable growth and healthy finances, and promoting the competitiveness of the european economies. the recent emphasis on employment and social aspects can also be considered very welcome steps towards creating a better balance between the economic and social dimensions of eu governance. nevertheless, despite the efforts of the commission towards streamlining the process, the potential of this instrument in delivering economic reforms in the member states cannot be truly exploited as long as the implementation rate of recommendations is as low as at present. considering that only around 9% of the country-specific recommendations were fully implemented by the member states in 2013, i am eagerly looking forward to the measures that the commission intends to take in order to increase the national ownership of csrs and to improve their implementation so that we can reap the full benefits of the european semester in the future.
mr president, we are speaking about the annual growth survey 2016; we are talking about strategic investments in europe in order to create jobs and to bolster the member states’ economies; we are talking about labour and social market policies – but what kind of recovery, what kind of growth are we going to have, taking into consideration, once again, the challenges that europe and the european union will have to face in the near future? you know that our growth – our very small growth – has been built mainly on exports, not on big infrastructure projects, not on big investments in europe, and especially in central and eastern europe. there, as you know, we are very far from the levels existing in western europe, especially regarding infrastructure and harbours, airports and so on. once again i would like to ask the commissioner to give us an answer: what is going to be the european commission’s influence on european development, taking into consideration that the european commission is moving money to cope with the influx of migrants in europe?
in writing.– the 2015 annual growth survey, presented last year, recommended pursuing a social and economic strategy based on three main pillars: the pursuit of fiscal responsibility; a boost to investment; and a renewed commitment to structural reforms. even though some of the objectives have been achieved and others are ongoing, i believe it is essential for 2016 to introduce also new concepts in the context of the new social and economic situation, namely: a clear social dimension in the policies implemented by the commission; to refocus investments on the creation of growth and jobs, and especially sustainable growth and decent jobs; a policy regarding migration issues focused on long-term solutions and security of european citizens; and the development of new cooperation mechanisms that strengthen the european dimension at different levels of the eu society.
in writing. the european commission launched the new european semester for 2016 by publishing the 2016 economic growth forecast. the good news is that the european union economy is growing in 2016. the bad news is that this 2.0 percent economic growth in 2016 is below what the u.s. will see. the economic gap between the us and the eu is therefore widening, and the causes are clear: the european union is delaying structural reforms to boost the competitiveness of the european economy. for example, the major european banks are only now announcing their real restructuring, labour mobility is still hampered in some member states, and the burden of european and national regulations puts european firms at a disadvantage compared to american firms. the british prime minister's call for competitiveness is welcome.
member of the commission.– mr president, let me start by saying that i am really pleased that we are here today in order to discuss the upcoming aviation strategy for europe. i really welcome the interest members have put in this topic and i am pleased to see that our views and assessments converge in many aspects. as you know, aviation is a strong driver of economic growth, jobs, trade and mobility. that is why a strong and competitive european aviation sector plays such a crucial role for the eu economy in delivering on the core priorities of the commission. europe must maintain its leadership position, in the interests of its citizens and its businesses. the commission warmly welcomes the support for this approach in parliament’s draft resolution and the emphasis put on the aeronautics industry as a major contributor to eu growth and jobs, and on innovation as a prerequisite of a competitive and sustainable aviation sector. we fully agree with the call for a long-term strategy for europe’s aviation sector. therefore, the upcoming commission initiative on an aviation strategy for europe, to be adopted on 2 december, will stand as our contribution to help shape the future of the eu aviation system in a comprehensive, holistic manner. regarding members’ specific demands, and considering that our work is still ongoing, please allow me to highlight several points. first, in relation to the global perspective, the global aviation market is changing – it is reshaping. we should not be afraid of that but should engage and play a major role in shaping this new world. in this context, i agree with members that it is essential for eu aviation to be well equipped to compete with strong players in the global marketplace. we face new and relentless competition from regions such as asia and the middle east. i just came back from the middle east today and i can only confirm that. by pursuing an ambitious external aviation policy, the eu could greatly contribute to that, notably through negotiating comprehensive eu-level air transport agreements with key third partners. in particular, market access should be based on a regulatory framework which promotes eu values and standards, enables reciprocal opportunities and prevents distortions. i welcome the call for measures which can effectively address distortive market behaviour in international aviation, which is why the commission is currently considering new measures to address unfair commercial practices from third countries and third country operators. second, the internal market. from an internal market perspective, we see that, whilst some airlines continue to struggle with problems, other airlines are doing quite well. similarly, whilst large airports are profitable, smaller airports struggle to make money. so, despite the industry performing well compared to other world regions, overall financial performance unfortunately remains mixed. against this background, we have taken a close look at the eu’s regulatory environment. we know that further improvements are necessary to make the sector more efficient, provide stability to investors, encourage new research, innovation and technical solutions, and ensure safety is maintained to its current high level. third, easa. i am confident that the proposal to revise the easa basic regulation will allow easa to continue its good work while adapting to the evolving needs of citizens, industry and regulators. the main objectives will be to introduce new mechanisms for more efficient safety oversight and new methods for more risk-based, proportionate and performance-based rule making. within this revision, we intend to lay down the basic legal framework for the safe development of all drone operations in europe, in proportion to the risk. i would like to congratulate parliament on its work on its report on drones. the fourth issue: social matters. there are many social matters that need to be addressed to ensure competitive and sustainable growth in aviation. i fully agree that we must maintain leadership in aviation, including through a highly-educated, qualified and experienced workforce. at the same time, new businesses and employment models have emerged; their consequences on employment should be looked at closely. an active and comprehensive social dialogue is therefore really essential in this regard. fifth: improvements and innovation. we welcome the highlighting of the importance of implementing the single european sky. ses2+ is an important enabler for modernisation of air traffic management and also ensures better safety oversight of air navigation services. furthermore, it allows for improved capacity and environmental performance, less congestion and delays for passengers, and reduced costs for the aviation value network. regarding sesar, we now have a coherent project, governed by a strong legal framework, driven by innovative partnerships and supported by union incentives, that is capable of deploying innovative air traffic management concepts in a coordinated manner. therefore, we agree and share parliament’s desire to implement sesar as quickly as possible. for this reason, i can only echo the dissatisfaction with the legislative files on aviation that are still pending – the slots directive, single european sky 2+ and passenger rights. parliament’s political support is highly welcomed. the sixth topic: the environment. we must deal with the environmental impact of an ever—expanding sector. i am confident that innovation and technical solutions can contribute to a reduced carbon footprint for aviation. i witnessed this myself at the recent paris and dubai air shows. the technology is here to serve. at the same time, the eu has put in place powerful regulatory tools to address co2 emissions. in icao, we need to play a critical role towards developing a global solution. we will do everything to enable this to happen. i believe that by working together we can ensure a strong european aviation sector, and i look forward to hearing members’ views on this.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i believe the commissioner has already said how important this mode of transport is, which provides connectivity, mobility, economic development, jobs. i think you can see what can happen without this mode of transportation even in these days when there are strikes and it creates the big problems that are created in such situations. that is why we must support this industry in absolutely every area, starting with infrastructure, with airports, with regional airports, with new infrastructure, because airports need it, and then with airlines, for whom we must ensure a fair competitive environment. for this, we need global agreements with the main states, with the main areas that respect european rules. i hope in particular that you will receive a mandate from the council to start negotiations with the gulf countries. we need the ses, just as you said, but you have to insist that these files be unlocked. we need to deploy sesar on a new aerospace architecture, not the one that's there now. otherwise, it would be a waste of money and time. easa needs to step up, get the very important role, and internationally we need to have one voice at icao. of course, the social aspect is important. no industry works without people. i insist on unlocking the files. there are extremely important files that are currently blocked in the council and i would also ask you to use what we, the european parliament, voted on in those files in the new package that you will propose in december.
mr president, i strongly support the future aviation package as it will provide a boost for a more sustainable european aviation industry, improve the competitiveness of the sector, strengthen european airlines, airports and the aeronautic industry, ensure a level playing field in the global market, and set out a long-term strategy for europe’s aviation sector. the commission should take into account and support innovation in the fields of air traffic management, airport security, digitalisation and multi-modal solutions. it is very important that the package supports global environmental solutions, such as global market-based measures to address carbon dioxide emissions from international aviation. european airports are facing significant competitive pressures. therefore the commission should take these developments into consideration in implementing the airport charges directive. moreover, the package should include a long-term eu strategic plan to address the challenges and opportunities for regional airports within the european union.
in writing. europe could not be the number one tourist destination in the world today without the contribution of the european aviation sector, one of the best performing in the world. 850 million passengers travelled in the european union in 2014 alone, and the number is growing every year! this impressive demand for mobility is underpinned by an innovative industry that creates 2.6 million jobs and is perfectly in line with the juncker plan for economic regeneration. unfortunately, the sector faces a number of challenges, on the one hand, from unfair competition from operators outside the union and, on the other hand, from market fragmentation, the costs of implementing environmental legislation and the lack of a unified vision on the competitiveness of the industry. as co-chair of the intergroup on tourism development and member of the european parliament's committee on transport and tourism, i can only welcome the aviation package announced by the european commission for december. the aviation sector and the aviation industry are key elements in the economic recovery plan of the european union. instead, we need a set of solutions that put the european aviation industry back on the global competitiveness map.
madam president, the budget of the european union is part of the solution to overcoming the refugee crisis. we have shown this with the fast adoption of draft amending budget 7 earlier this year – but draft amending budgets are not the best way to tackle such crises and unexpected developments. what we need to do is to properly define political priorities when we prepare the budget for next year and to properly finance them. otherwise, the eu will again be in a position in which it is unprepared and unable to respond to a crisis, as we were throughout the summer. this also needs to be made clear to the member states throughout the negotiations which we are now having on next year’s budget. commissioner, minister, we count on you making and passing this message to member states, along the lines of what my colleague, mr karas, also described earlier. these two funds are, of course, important, because only by improving the situation on the ground in the countries of origin will we ever managed to exit and to terminate this permanent crisis management in which we find ourselves on the refugee crisis.
madam president, i warmly support the launch of the first ever eu regional trust fund in response to the syrian crisis and the emergency trust fund for stability in addressing the root causes of irregular migration and displaced persons in africa. member states are expected to match eu funding for the madad fund (eur 5 million) and the trust fund for africa (eur 1.8 billion) with voluntary contributions. at the same time, given the fact that some african countries with autocratic leaderships might not use this money properly, we have to keep an eye on the expenditure of this money, which could disappear very quickly through corruption. we know that this has happened before. these countries have to respect some conditions and these must not become again a way to blackmail the european union. ladies and gentlemen, it is important that member states are politically committed to ensuring sufficient funding for these funds in their ongoing negotiations on the 2016 eu budget.
in writing. the european union must of course keep its word and contribute to the funds for the syrian and african crises with the amounts promised. in parallel, we must talk about the fact that these amounts are actually spent by the states concerned to eliminate the causes of migration, that there is a real change in the regions concerned. it is important that the resources support economic development, contribute to the provision of basic services to the local population, improve food security, and contribute to better governance and increased security. the reluctance of member states is understandable, as the costs of the migration crisis are still unknown and, in these circumstances, the use of the development aid offered could be crucial. secondly, it is clear that whatever the impact of the resources of these funds, the living standards of the african states concerned will not approach those of western european countries, and therefore the protection of the union's borders is necessary to reduce immigration.
madam president, the daphne programme represents a key tool to end violence against women. i truly believe that the new programme of fundamental rights, equality and citizenship should maintain daphne as a stand-alone programme to support women’s rights organisations in the field. however, clarifications are needed on the amount of funding, the allocation for different target groups and the visibility of actions to combat violence against women, especially the process of selection of projects and actions. the commission should take action in order to ensure the visibility of daphne-related objectives and to raise their awareness of the funding possibilities under the new programme on fundamental rights, equality and citizenship, taking into account the need to maintain the profile of the former daphne programme. i welcome the recognition of the promotion of equality between women and men and the advancement of gender mainstreaming as a specific objective in the rights, equality and citizenship programme.
in writing. violence against women is a violation of human rights and a form of gender discrimination. estimates of the magnitude of this phenomenon are alarming. violence has a major impact on victims and causes significant costs. although there are common trends in tackling violence, the approaches adopted differ from one member state to another. the european parliament's many contributions are aimed at strengthening the union's policy in this area. parliament has repeatedly called for an eu strategy to combat violence against women, including a binding instrument. i consider that the main objective of the new daphne programme is to prevent and combat all forms of violence against children, young people and women, whether in public or in private, and to protect victims and groups at risk. it complements existing programmes in the member states and builds on the policies and objectives already defined in previous daphne programmes.
madam president, romania has been marked by a terrible tragedy in recent days, namely a massive fire which has caused the death of 50 people and several dozen others are in serious condition. member states must be responsible and do everything to ensure that such tragedies are not repeated anywhere else. at the same time, we had a welcome resignation of a government that could have far better performed. i am glad, however, that there is a nomination for the post of prime minister in the person of mr dacian ciolos, who for five years managed the common agricultural policy as a commissioner. the absorption of european funds must be the top priority of his reign. the money allocated to romania must be spent responsibly and efficiently so that it does not end up elsewhere. i am absolutely convinced that the experience of his reign at european level will enable him to manage the interests of romania and the european union well in a period of profound challenges, given by the immigration crisis and more.
madam president, first of all i would like to thank the european parliament for commemorating today, as requested, the victims of the tragic event in bucharest. this again illustrates the solidarity that europe shows in difficult times. another example of solidarity to consider is that of european doctors and nurses who came to romania to support local medical teams, but also that of the countries that took in the wounded to treat them. it is a symbol of how, in moments of crisis, europeans stand together in solidarity and manage to unite to protect the lives of their citizens. i take this opportunity to once again salute the medical community in romania and europe for the joint efforts to save those who suffered as a result of this tragic event. in this respect, i believe that an important direction in building a common future at european level is the creation of a common health policy that allows for the treatment of all european patients, regardless of country, because, ultimately, the most important thing is to save as many human lives as possible.
madam president, i take the opportunity of having representatives of the commission here to remind the commission and the european council that their main goal, task and aim is to maintain the european union’s stability and the european union states’ stability underpinning everything. i say this to you because of the situation with the tide of migrants that is continuing to come to europe. the european union proved not to have the necessary tools and institutions to respond to such a crisis. the system of crisis management is very poor and inefficient at the level of the european union, and this has to be improved. the european union proved one thing: that soft power is not enough. the european union needs also to build security and defence structures, to have real hard power in the future to face all these challenges and threats to its security and defence.
in writing. ‒ one of the european union's strong concerns has been to facilitate cooperation and communication between member states' institutions, which has been reflected in a number of programmes, one of which is the inter-administration data exchange programme, which aims to exchange data between member states' administrations and between administrations and the eu institutions (ida), launched as early as 1995. with the evolution of technology and the growing expectations of civil society, the interoperability solutions programme for european public administrations (isa, followed by isa 2) was initiated, which focuses on the needs and dynamics of businesses and citizens precisely so that administrations respond effectively and promptly to citizens' needs. the isa 2 programme on interoperability solutions for european public administrations is the basis for modernising public administrations in europe, improving the quality of public services, creating a competitive environment for businesses and at the same time improving the quality of life of the population, which is why i voted in favour of the report on interoperability solutions as a means of modernising the public sector.
in writing. ‒ i believe that interoperability in data protection and closer cross-border cooperation should highlight a substantial potential for improving the efficiency of public services in the member states which, if fully exploited, could contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the european semester. i support the rapporteur's position and therefore believe it is important to introduce specific references to the union acquis on data protection, as the current proposal of the european commission does not sufficiently address this issue.
in writing. ‒ isa is the latest programme in a long line of commission programmes that support the interconnection, digitisation and collaboration of public administrations since the 1990s. the current programme, isa, will end this year and has supported the development of egovernment solutions that are today operational in public administrations across the eu. the new programme, isa, will build on the success of its predecessor. it will ensure seamless electronic cross-border or cross-sector interaction between european public administrations in areas such as government, health, invoicing and procurement. isa² will support the development of interoperable digital solutions which will be available to all interested public administrations on european, national and regional level, free of charge. this will lead to a harmonised interoperability landscape in europe, saving time and costs, and contribute to the modernisation of european public administrations and to the creation of a digital single market. i welcome the introduction in the programme of new priorities such as greater involvement of citizens and businesses, additional safeguards concerning data protection, a stronger emphasis on the reuse and sharing of references and solutions, enhanced cooperation between member states to fight the digital divide, develop creation of user communities and exchange of good practice.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the isa2 is the latest in a long line of commission programmes that support the interconnection, digitisation and collaboration of public administrations. moreover, it will ensure seamless electronic cross-border or cross-sector interaction between european public administrations in areas such as government, health, invoicing and procurement. i hope that the isa2 programme will build on the success of its predecessor and will lead to a harmonised interoperability landscape, saving time and costs.
in writing. ‒ an efficient public administration is key to a successful citizen-state relationship. the eu’s aim is to enable the free movement of its citizens, goods and services, and therefore it is important not to burden this movement with unnecessary bureaucracy. if national public administrations could function more like a network, thus collaborating and sharing information, it could save everyone time and money. this piece of legislation puts in place a programme to facilitate digital cross-border and cross-sector information exchange between our public administrations, thus enhancing this network functionality. such an initiative can only increase the quality of the services provided by public administrations in the eu and therefore it has my full support.
in writing. ‒ the programme on interoperability solutions for european public administrations, businesses and citizens was launched in 1995. i have voted for this report that will help public administrations in europe to modernise in order to address overall economic competitiveness and people’s quality of life.
in writing. ‒ isa 2 is the latest commission programme supporting the interconnection, digitalisation and collaboration of public administrations. the current programme will end this year and has supported the development of egovernment solutions that are now operational in public administrations across the union. the new isa 2 programme will ensure cross-border or cross-sectoral electronic interaction between european public administrations in areas such as governance, health, billing and public procurement. isa 2 will support the development of interoperable digital solutions available free of charge to all interested public administrations at european, national and regional level. this will contribute to the modernisation of european public administrations and the creation of a digital single market. the new isa 2 programme is planned to run from 2016 to 2020 with a budget of approximately eur 131 million. as itre s&d coordinator, i welcome the introduction of new priorities into the programme such as greater involvement of citizens and businesses, additional safeguards on data protection, a strong focus on re-use and exchange of references and solutions, enhanced cooperation between member states to tackle the digital divide and to develop user communities and exchange of good practices.
in writing. ‒ in a european union, public administration serves the european citizen at all levels. given the right of our citizens to travel freely within the union and to reside in any member state, public administration services must also remain efficient and respond to the needs of european citizens. to this end, a number of programmes have been launched on interoperability solutions for european public administration, and the report we voted on today focuses on isa2, a welcome continuation of the ida, idabc and isa programmes. in particular, the commission will support the development of a european e-government platform for the promotion of e-government in the union. cross-border electronic barriers are still a cause of fragmentation in the union and prevent the creation of common services in the interest of european citizens. the key element in this context is interoperability in data protection and cross-border cooperation, the contribution of which to the successful implementation of the policies is essential. the isa2 programme brings us closer to the objective of modernising public administration and adapting it to a highly mobile, informed and digital society.
in writing. ‒ the political representation of seats in the european parliament is not determined by a single european election, but by the 28 national elections in the 28 member states of the european union of the national mandate quotas. even if the harmonisation of electoral rules is not an end in itself, european citizens must exercise their right to vote under comparable conditions, respecting democratic principles. the first direct elections to the european parliament (ep) took place in 1979, and the provisions governing european elections have evolved, but not as substantially as the ep would have liked. however, the maastricht treaty gave the ep the right to give its opinion on the council's decision in respect of the uniform procedure, which gives european citizens the right to vote and stand as candidates in their member state of residence, whatever that may be. i spoke in favour of the legislative initiative on the reform of the european union electoral legislation, as it reflects the objective of strengthening the democratic dimension of european elections, strengthens eu citizenship, leads to a better functioning of the european parliament, but also to the governance of the union.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the reform of the parliament's electoral procedure should aim to strengthen the democratic and transnational dimension of european elections and the democratic legitimacy of the decision-making process within the union, to give consistency to the concept of citizenship of the union, to increase the legitimacy of the european parliament's work and to reinforce the principles of electoral equality and equal opportunities, to increase the effectiveness of the system applied in the conduct of european elections and to bring members of the european parliament closer to their constituents, especially the youngest among them. i support the idea that the list of candidates for the european parliament elections should ensure gender equality.
in writing. ‒ the electoral law is one of our main instruments to show our democratic characteristics and processes. the reform of the electoral law is therefore a very important action that needs to be taken and will enable us to improve the democratic procedure and to have more transparent, visible, fair and democratic elections. i support the set of recommendation proposed by the rapporteur, such as a common date to finalise the lists and appoint top candidates, ballot papers to give equal visibility to the national parties and european political parties, and election thresholds to be set between 3%-5% in single constituencies that comprise more than 26 seats. i welcome the proposal of establishing the european election authority and the suggestion to consider ways to harmonise voting at age 16. using zipped lists or other ‘equivalent’ methods is also a step in the right direction of more gender balance.
in writing. ‒ i applaud the rapporteurs for proposing solid updates to the procedures for electing the european parliament. firstly, it is of tantamount importance that parties participating in elections offer gender equality and transparency in selecting candidates. also, the introduction of a common and comprehensive organisational plan for elections rises to the spirit of european ideals.
in writing. ‒ it is the rules of electoral competition that shape the political system, and our system needs to be improved. as the recently passed proposal mentions, there is a need to enhance the democratic and transnational dimension of our union. for this reason, i supported the proposal aiming to harmonise the rules that govern european parliamentary elections. i believe the reform would raise citizens’ interest in the voting process, help bring more european issues onto electoral agendas and hopefully also help to establish a link between the european political parties and the citizens they represent.
in writing. ‒ the proposals by parliament to reform the electoral law of the european union bring important changes that will stimulate political debate across europe. firstly, the report brings more visibility to the european parties, given that national parties will need to indicate clearly their affiliation to the european ones on the ballot papers and on posters and other campaign materials. the report also creates a clear link between the elections and the future european commission because it states that the nominations for commission president will be announced by all european political parties prior to the elections. i voted for this report because it also seeks to increase the participation rate at european elections by suggesting the introduction of electronic and internet voting options as well as postal voting.
in writing. ‒ this change in eu electoral law was necessary to give all citizens the right to vote, regardless of their country of residence. thus, by electronic, online or postal voting, all citizens living abroad will be able to vote in the elections to the european parliament. in addition, the european affiliation of national parties to european parties must be clearly indicated on the ballot papers. i support this change because it will bring clarity to the european elections: they will be democratic and transparent. finally, we will see the european electoral process adapted and standardised to the new political and social context.
in writing. ‒ the elections to the european parliament are governed to a great extent by national rules. as a result, election campaigns are often dominated by national topics and led by national political actors. reforming the electoral law will make elections to the european parliament more european, in both form and substance, by promoting electoral equality between eu citizens across the eu and improving parliament’s functioning and the eu’s governance. the current report represents parliament’s aim of obtaining such an eu‐wide electoral procedure. the provisions in the report ask for a common deadline of 12 weeks before the vote for the establishment of electoral lists, and nomination of lead candidates; gender balance on electoral lists; higher visibility of national parties’ affiliation to european political parties on ballot papers; and a minimum threshold of between 3 and 5%. while i support the reform of the law, i believe it must exclude any attempts to introduce transnational lists. electing members on transitional lists means these members have no concrete constituencies. that raises concerns as to the democratic accountability of these members towards their voters. yet i voted for the report, as i believe that reforming the law will lead to more transparent, visible and democratic elections.
in writing. ‒ since 2012, european airlines have faced a number of competitive challenges, with the need to reduce 20 000 jobs in the companies. these institutions made a considerable contribution to the gdp of the european union of over 2,4% in 2012, creating 2,6 million jobs. the aviation industry is a significant contributor to economic growth and employment, generating significant turnover. however, at present, the industry requires active policies to support and develop the aviation sector, especially in view of the legal and financial regulations that have increased the burden on the aviation sector, regulations that have limited operating hours, the level of national fees and taxes, and the extension of passenger rights. the commission notes that the airport services agreement with ryanair was signed on 27 june 2013 and that the agreement with ryanair was signed on 27 june 2013. i voted in favour of the report on the future aviation package because it requires a long-term strategy for the aviation sector, with measures to boost the sector and optimise its competitiveness.
in writing. ‒ i believe that small and regional airports in the union are important and have a significant role to play in ensuring cohesion between eu regions and i believe that both the commission and the member states need to present a long-term eu strategic plan addressing the challenges and opportunities of regional airports in the eu, given that regional cohesion must be part of the union's strategy for growth and jobs.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support the future aviation package, as it will provide a boost for a more sustainable european aviation industry, improve the competitiveness of the sector, strengthen european airlines, airports and the aeronautic industry, ensure a level playing field in the global market and set out a long-term strategy for europe’s aviation sector. the commission should take into account and support innovation in the fields of air traffic management, airport security, digitalisation and multimodal solutions. it is very important that the package supports global environmental solutions such as a global market-based measure to address co2 emissions from international aviation. european airports are facing significant competitive pressures; therefore, the commission should take these developments into consideration in implementing the airport charges directive. moreover, the package should include a long-term eu strategic plan to address the challenges and opportunities for regional airports within the eu. finally, i endorse the call to strengthen the role of the easa on the international scene and to ensure its official recognition within icao, in order to establish a single eu voice that will ensure a higher level of safety for eu citizens worldwide while safeguarding the competitiveness and exports of the eu aviation industry.
in writing. ‒ i applaud the aeronautics industry for being a central generator of growth, stability and jobs within the european union, having more than eur 100 billion turnover per year and supporting 500 000 direct jobs. i would also like to note the issue of protection against unfair pricing practices in the air transport sector, which should be addressed urgently by the european commission. finally, i believe that the aviation package provides great incentive for a more structured, fair and competitive european aviation industry.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution acknowledges the need for action to improve the competitiveness of european airlines. i have voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, which will facilitate a competitive european aviation industry through effective economic regulation.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure mr president, i fully agree with what our colleague has said and i fully agree with what the rapporteurs have said, but i would like to ask you, honourable colleague, if you do not think that the world trade organisation should have a different trade agenda, so that the entry of powerful countries into the world trade organisation does not lead to unfair competition, as we now very often have, for example from china, with the entry of uncontrolled products? shouldn't we be reviewing some of the world trade organization's working papers? not quotas, but the control mode for consumer protection.
blue-card question.– i would like to ask our colleague, ms girling, what would happen if a policy combining engagement and strong, tough conditionality had to be embedded by the european union in the strategy for relations with all developing countries, including vietnam.
blue-card question.– let me try again. the question was: a policy of both engagement and strong, tough conditionality should have to be embedded by the european union in the strategies of relationships with developing countries, including vietnam. do you understand now?
madam president, the european union is still based on the values of ensuring and respecting human rights, and this principle must be applied in the various forms of cooperation with third countries. at the same time, we cannot be blind idealists who say that we will not cooperate with certain countries or regions until their human rights regime reaches the level of the eu. we must also add that in many cases we ourselves do not set a good example when it comes to human rights, particularly the rights of minorities. the institutions of the european union are as powerless to influence the relevant policies of member states as they are of third countries. in fact, it is as if the commission were more careful about criticising the practices of member states than about reprimanding third countries. i don't think that in any way strengthens our credibility in the world.
madam president, i absolutely agree on the need to make sure that human rights-related issues have been correctly addressed by the commission during the negotiations with vietnam on a free trade agreement. considering the concerns about the human rights situation in vietnam – particularly with regard to freedom of expression, the right of assembly, the right of association, media freedom, the right to disagree, freedom of religion, etc. – i believe that the commission should monitor human rights developments in vietnam and draw on input from independent civil society in order to uphold the commitments made in the agreement. i support the negotiations, as trade agreements have demonstrated the potential for economic growth and jobs on both sides. however, it is fundamental that the commission address the relationship between trade liberalisation and improving human rights in trade negotiations in the future, including in the new trade strategy that it plans to put forward.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the health of each of us depends to a large extent on the health of the animals we eat. this is closely linked to the animal welfare obviously generated by the rearing and feeding conditions. we therefore welcome and appreciate the efforts made by the commission in these areas in recent years and once again stress the need for them to continue with even greater intensity. the commission and the relevant bodies must ensure that there is constant communication that takes account of the needs of consumers and farmers. it is imperative to strike a balance between the interests of the two entities so that each of them has a guarantee that its rights are respected. i also appreciate that the commission must be concerned not only with the adoption of coherent, simplified and effective legislation at european union level in this area, but also with the obligation to monitor closely the implementation of this legislation in the member states where, unfortunately, there are serious shortcomings in this respect. unfortunately, there are currently major imbalances along the food chain which clearly disadvantage farmers, which may be a limiting factor for investment in this area. producers are overwhelmed by administrative obligations and the constant attempt to simplify them should not place further burdens on the sector. we therefore believe that farmers who have taken on responsibilities in this area must be guaranteed stability and predictability in their investments, as well as a guarantee of fair competition at international level. member states should therefore make more effective use of the support opportunities offered by the european rural development funds to promote applied research and invest in innovative and modern animal welfare solutions, so that european union citizens benefit from quality feed at affordable prices for everyone.
madam president, poverty, especially among children, is not just a matter of money because it is not just a lack of food, clothing, access to decent housing, but it is often linked to social exclusion and lack of access to quality health and education. special attention should be paid to children living with single parents, especially single mothers who often also look after other family members with special needs. we must not forget for a moment that the protection of families, and in particular single parents with children with health problems, is and must remain a reference point in european policies. as such, i support the importance of public prevention policies that invest in judicious solutions for children's well-being, with a focus on reducing school dropout, supporting the training of autonomous individuals, able to integrate into society and the labour market.
madam president, i would like to stress at the outset the importance of the report we are discussing and congratulate the rapporteur and all those who have worked on it. i wanted to speak in connection with this report to highlight the urgent need for social investment and policies to combat child poverty. investing in children: breaking the cycle of disadvantage must not remain a slogan. there is too much increased risk of poverty or social exclusion. the data show that the number of children at risk of poverty has increased by about one million in four years, which is not at all safe for the future of europe. in the european union, over 26 million children are exposed to poverty. children provide replacement for future generations, and if we don't take care of how they live, how they have access to education and health, we can't provide for future generations. there is still high school dropout rates between 13 and 20%, millions of children do not have access to healthcare, child trafficking still exists and needs to be closely monitored. i believe that the european commission should propose instruments to measure these indicators, but also measures to eliminate them.
in writing.– today in europe, 21% of children are at risk of falling into poverty. at least 20 million children are suffering daily from the lack of income and basic services. many of them do not have a warm meal every day. i support the call of my political group, the socialists and democrats in the european parliament, for the introduction of a european child guarantee, financed by the eu budget, to lift children out of poverty. the report on inequalities, primarily focused on child poverty and social exclusion, highlights the imperious necessity of establishing eu and national targets that can genuinely indicate the social status of children, alongside their well-being. there must be a strong cohesiveness between existing funds and policies to guarantee children equal access to benefits such as health and education in order to ensure that they achieve their full potential. i therefore emphasise the need mentioned in the report of coordinated action at both european and national levels, as these objectives can only be achieved if awareness is raised at a systemic level and all available resources are aligned and directed towards the same goal – combating child inequality, poverty and social exclusion.
madam president, despite the first steps of progress achieved through the eu framework for national roma integration, the wide gaps in our societies show that there is a lot more to be done to break the vicious circle faced by marginalised communities, especially the roma: lack of education and diminished labour market prospects coupled with direct and indirect discrimination. nevertheless, it is also in these vital areas where a better use of cohesion policy could make a difference. mainstream and targeted measures for the reduction of the rate of roma early school leavers are among the measures that could have the largest long-term impact, as it is early school leaving which later translates into the lack of skills and qualifications that prevent roma from accessing quality employment in their adulthood. similarly, beside demand—side measures such as recruitment subsidies for employment and apprenticeship schemes, lifelong learning and vocational training for adult roma must also be key priorities in our goal towards more social cohesion.
madam president, in an increasingly globalised society, ensuring equal access to high-quality education for all members of society is essential to reducing social exclusion. the union and the member states should strengthen their cooperation to implement programmes, projects and support activities for marginalised communities to facilitate early childhood education, new opportunities for other forms of education and lifelong learning, in view of the continuous changes in various sectors and the increasing share of online tools. it is also essential to empower women and girls from marginalised communities to receive appropriate vocational training, and i am referring here to roma women and girls as well. encouraging entrepreneurship and participation among women in these communities for better access to the labour market must become a priority.
in writing. many people face various forms of discrimination, especially within roma communities, which are often marginalised in european societies. i have tabled an amendment with a number of colleagues on the funding of programmes to combat anti-gypsyism and ensure better integration of roma into society. i would like to thank in advance all the colleagues who will support this amendment. some communities do not benefit from european cohesion policy. they are not included in the decision-making structures or in the processes of project implementation and monitoring. this can lead to the eu exacerbating the problems of vulnerable groups, which is why the commission needs to rethink the use of cohesion funds to meet the needs of marginalised communities.
member of the commission.– mr president, i thank mr väyrynen for his report, which the european commission takes as an encouragement for continuing to work for a strong european union in the united nations, as well as a strong partnership within the european union and the united nations. as high representative and vice-president federica mogherini stressed in vienna, following the horrific attacks in paris (which were, in fact, attacks on us all), the answer to these barbaric terrorists must be in joining forces and coming together. now everybody is affected. after bombings in lebanon, turkey and iraq, and the russian plane crash, this is a global problem that requires a global response. the challenges we face today are truly global in nature, and effective world governance has never been so crucial. a strong, effective united nations, as well as a strong, united european union acting together to advance our foreign policy objectives, values and interests on the united nations stage, are more essential than ever since its creation 70 years ago. the european union has very close cooperation and frequent contacts with the united nations secretariat. on all main united nations policies – peace and security, development of human rights – we support each other, ranging from humanitarian assistance to cooperation programmes to peace operations. let us assure you that the european union’s voice in the united nations is strong and is clearly heard. just to take two examples: first, the european union spoke with a clear, united voice in the 2013 agenda negotiations and has thus had a major influence on this final outcome; second, the european union regularly briefs the united nations security council, including through high representative vice-president federica mogherini personally, and participates in united nations security council debates. many other united nations member states regularly align with our statements, so we often speak on behalf of an even larger group than the european union and its member states. the european union is appreciated as a reliable, positive and constructive partner, and often a bridge-builder. strong european union coordination allows us to appear as a solid and coherent political actor. it is more important than ever that we closely cooperate on the several crises we are faced with. the european commission fully agrees with members when they say that we need to take prevention and early action very seriously. gender equality and women’s empowerment also remain one of our major common priorities in this context, and we pursue this very actively at the united nations. while it can seem difficult when so many full-blown conflicts already demand attention, we cannot focus on symptoms alone. we must pay attention to drivers and the root causes of conflicts, extremism and forced migration. it is important to achieve not only a rhetorical shift but a change of mindset. a clear recognition of the close interlinkage between peace, sustainable development, governance, gender equality, human rights and the rule of law in the 2013 agenda for sustainable development was just last week discussed in the security council under the united kingdom presidency, where the european union also delivered a statement. it is our conviction that the role of security and development actors should be complementary, and sustaining peace should be a unifying thread running through the work of the united nations. we must preach peace, development and security, and we believe that, as a global framework agreed by all the united nations member states, the 2013 agenda can help us to do this. the agenda is an important opportunity for all of us to depart from business as usual. it is also very relevant for the ongoing peace reviews. as members will know, the united nations is currently engaged in a period of strategic reflection on several levels, and we are following this with great interest in the european union. therefore, this report is very timely. it is absolutely essential that we keep up our regular exchanges between the european union and the united nations on so many levels, ranging from high-level exchanges to desk-to-desk dialogues, and this includes you, the members of the european parliament, who also regularly visit the united nations capitals. shared analysis together with our partners, including the united nations, is essential for more joined—up strategic thinking. the attacks in paris are a terrible reminder of the magnitude of the threat and the importance of joining forces on counter-terrorism. the european union and the united nations have decided on a number of actions in recent months, including on foreign fighters, terrorist financing and countering violent extremism. our collective response cannot be a procedural exercise. it is clear that together we need to do more, more effectively, with a new sense of purpose and urgency. solving the syrian and libyan conflicts clearly remains a top priority. high representative and vice-president federica mogherini quoted robert schuman in her statement congratulating the united nations on its 70th anniversary one month ago. i quote: ‘world peace cannot be safeguarded without the making of creative efforts proportionate to the dangers which threaten it’.
mr. president, i want to express the concern of my fellow citizens about the escalation of violence, about the increase in insecurity and to express the fear of families for children who have left for other countries. i have asked the commission, but i would like to raise this serious issue of the safety of europeans at home in the plenary of the parliament. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the president of the european commission and the president of the council should urgently present to parliament and the european citizens the programme relating to migration, refugees, border security and the security of the free movement of european citizens. setting quotas is not the answer. we cannot keep the risk high for too long and risk more lives being lost. europeans want to know what the exit program is. we want a united, safe european union and legal treatment. we do not want any more two-speed europe, we do not want any more uncertainty. all 28 countries have signed an accession agreement and must benefit from the same rules and abide by the same rules.
mr president, i note with concern that the idea of a so-called two-speed europe has recently come up for discussion. it is all the more worrying that one of the leaders of the european union, mr juncker, is encouraging such an idea which is in direct opposition to the values and the foundation of the european project based on cohesion, integration, reducing disparities. how can the union effectively tackle key problems such as poverty or youth unemployment if it reduces integration? how can the european union defend itself against external threats if its leaders are considering fracturing? such statements, coupled with the uk's demands to restrict migrants' rights, send an unwelcome message in a difficult context, precisely when the union needs solidarity and unity more than ever. i think it is the duty of the president of the commission to explain his statements, since his view is not at all clear. nor what are the two speeds and nor what rules would see for a europe that works on this principle.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, despite the seriousness of the situation concerning the security of our citizens, the european project must continue. we must not let these moments of crisis overwhelm us or mask our inaction on an issue that concerns europe's future, namely the lack of jobs for young people. even if we often forget to talk about young people and the many vulnerabilities of this category, this does not mean that the problems no longer exist. on the contrary, they are intensifying. today there are still 4.6 million young europeans without any kind of employment. the european commission needs to come up with concrete data on the implementation of programmes for training and employment of young people, and we in the european parliament need to convince our institutional partners that we need more initiatives and major investments to reduce youth unemployment. that is why i have proposed that these programmes should also apply to young people up to the age of 35. as such, this issue must not disappear from our agenda and public discourse because the lack of a solution will affect our long-term well-being.
mr president, it is 40 years since the helsinki final act, which established human rights, including respect for the rights of minorities, as a fundamental principle, was adopted, and 20 years since the framework convention for the protection of national minorities was signed here in strasbourg. this double anniversary is therefore a good opportunity to take stock and to note that there is still a great deal to be done in the implementation and application of the minority protection clauses of international conventions. many of the provisions of the framework convention are simply not being implemented, and in this situation i believe that the adoption by the institutions of the european union of a legally binding framework for the protection of minorities would help. although we would expect the commission to take the initiative, parliament as the representative of the interests of european citizens could also take the lead in this process. 40 million eu citizens are directly affected by this issue, and the eu must therefore address the problems of national minorities. this is all the more so since article 2 of the treaty on european union states that the union is founded on respect for the rights of minorities.
on behalf of the s&d group. commissioner, vice-president, i congratulate you on the work and efforts you have made so far to implement the energy union. the socialist group, through its parliamentary work, is ready to support the commission's proposals and to work closely with the other european institutions to implement the measures necessary for an integrated internal energy market. our economy and society are faced with energy imports from unstable regions, which make prices volatile. the key to the energy union is the creation of a secure, sustainable, competitive and affordable energy market, with the aim of increasing the global competitiveness of the european economy by reducing and harmonising energy prices in europe and between member states. an integrated market would maximise the benefits for new industries and new technologies while ensuring protection and support for labour and traditional industries. i stress that we must ensure that the proposed objectives and targets are not met to the detriment of european industry and jobs. an integrated energy market must first bring tangible benefits to consumers. it is therefore regrettable that the electricity and gas markets are not performing as expected. in addition to energy cost transparency, both industrial consumers and citizens need lower energy prices. i also stress, mr vice-president, the importance of interconnections in order to have a genuine internal market for electricity. and last but not least, we social democrats support the commission's approach to fighting energy poverty and protecting vulnerable consumers. but i stress that we need an integrated european approach. good luck to you, mr. vice president.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure mr president, madam president, we certainly agree that we need an energy union. my question to you is: do you think the report that the commission is presenting to us places enough emphasis on protecting vulnerable consumers by applying this strategy? don't you think there should be a red thread in the legislative package to not accentuate poverty?
mr president, i want to congratulate you on the document you have drawn up, but i wish we had been more ambitious. i think we need to build not just a common energy market, we need to really build an energy union. this requires that there is indeed a concept and mechanisms at european level to help european consumers, whether they are private individuals or private companies at european level. unfortunately, i have to say with sadness that a country that is relatively energy independent like romania, like my country, doesn't have very many benefits. we have raised the price of energy for private consumers, but unfortunately we are not able to export because there are no interconnections, because there is really no common market in energy, and many countries still protect their market at european level. i trust that you are aware of these issues, you are aware of the need of consumers and private companies at european level to form a really efficient, really independent, really interconnected energy union, and i think that we need to find the means by which we can implement such an energy union.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, firstly i would really like to thank you for a very rich debate which i think truly reflects the complexities and the challenges which we will be facing with our energy union project. i would also like to thank you very much for the support you clearly highlight towards the introduction of the state of the energy union report, because i believe that we are equipping ourselves with a very important tool. we now have a very clear policy marker in the political calendar of the european union. in the autumn we will have regular debates on how we are progressing with the energy union, what we have accomplished over the last year and what the challenges we are facing are and what the plans are for the next period. i think that is very important, because i see this as a very important founding stone of the strong robust governance that this house was calling for when we were introducing the energy union strategy. if you would allow me to react on some of the most frequent questions and topics which have been raised: first, cop 21. this very important – i would say historic – conference will start in only a few days, and i very much thank all of you for the support for the ambitious binding agreement we will all, from the european side, try to achieve in paris. i think it is very important to see that all major economies – all the parties to this agreement – will show ambition and will show how decisively we are going to tackle climate change. i believe that paris will really be a new beginning in this fight, that we will again get new mechanisms which will allow us to learn from the past and to have this five-year periodicity where we can access, compare and act on the figures and results, which will be much more precise than before, because it will be putting much more emphasis on true verification and precise monitoring of the efforts of all parties to that agreement. when it comes to our energy union in europe, i think that several of you highlighted where the real problems are. first we need to make sure that we have our signals right, and by that i mean signals for carbon pricing – i agree with all of you that current carbon prices are not reflecting the cost and not driving in the necessary innovation we need in our energy and climate policies. therefore, once again i would like to thank you very much for a very cooperative approach on the market stability reserve. i believe that it will be the same in the negotiations on the ets reform, which we presented for the post-2020 period, because i believe that also by these activities we are already making very clear what the european policies are, how serious we are about a transition to the low—carbon economy and what kind of signals we want to send to investors. but when we are speaking about the price signals, we also have to speak about the price signals for electricity. it is quite clear that if you want to bring the investors in, and if we want to highlight how important active consumerism in this respect would be, we need to do much more for demand—side management, the flexibility of our electricity systems, better integration of renewables and giving more powers to consumers to decide if they want to produce the energy, from whom they want to buy and what kind of supply schemes they want to have for their households or for industries. all this is currently being assessed and will be presented to members in the series of proposals we will be presenting to parliament next year. many of you spoke about energy security. thank you very much for those strong words, because we are living in a political world, and i think that we also need to send very clear political messages that energy diversification is important, that if we speak about diversification we are talking about the routes but also sources of supply, that we want to have a wider range of energy suppliers and that lng will play a very important role in this respect. when it comes to nord stream, i would like to assure you that, both with commissioner arias cañete and with the other commissioners, we are working hand-in-hand on this issue, and we will make sure that any project in europe, including nord stream ii, will have to fully comply with all eu laws; that all the proposals would really be verified and assessed with all the vigour which you have seen in the previous approach, which we assessed in a similar way; and that for us the transit route through ukraine is very important. i think we should see it as a priority, not only for the european commission, but for the whole energy union. when it comes to the internal energy market, i agree with all of the members who said that it is high time we finally complete this, and that we complete it from the legislative point of view but also from the point of view of the hardware and software of the internal energy market. therefore, it is very important that we agree on this new list for this project of common interest. i would like to make a proposal to you. let us work on this list much better than before. let us have regular monitoring and a kind of regular inventory of where we are with this energy infrastructure project. are we on time? if we see that some projects are struggling, let us analyse why: how can we help these projects take off financially through the feasibility study, through technical assistance or sometimes also through political mediation? this was important for quite a few infrastructure projects mentioned in several of the interventions, because it is important to shorten the time from the current 10 to 12 years; we need to build interconnectors in three to four years, which would bring much more dynamism into our system. we need much more coherence and much closer coordination among our regulators. therefore, i very much welcome the support for the new powers for esa. we would like to present this proposal together with a new electricity market design and also the revision of the directive on renewables in the autumn of this year. we have already allocated, thanks to members’ support for this as well, more staff for esa, because we agree that the role of this agency is very important and will be even further increased. on energy efficiency: the first principle – and i think we are very clear here and we will be discussing with members this issue on many further occasions – is that we want to operationalise energy efficiency first – when we assess all the legislative proposals next year and when the member states consider new infrastructure, we will be calling upon them and discussing with them how at first to assess how much energy we can save, what we can do at national level, how we can improve our energy regions to make sure that, if we are progressing in this effort, we will do it on the most cost—efficient basis. we will be very ambitious on this front, and parliament will see that we will be very ambitious, just as we have been very ambitious until today. of course, we want to make sure that all these figures for 2030 line up, that we will deliver. therefore, we need to make the next year, as several of you highlighted, the year of delivery, where we will put all the key elements on the legislative front on the table for parliament and the member states, and the council, to start the true negotiations on how we will transform the energy union proposals into valid legislation. i want to put it on the table also because we want to call upon member states to start working as early as 2017 on draft national energy and climate plans, to make sure that they also develop their vision for 2030 and that they will tell us how they want to implement all these plans at national level, so we can see if the figures are adding up and if we need some further action to be undertaken. then we can actually have the process which would make it possible, despite the energy mixes which are decided at national level, to have a common european framework, a common european goal and, i believe, good common european results. one word, if you allow me, on energy poverty. we deliberately highlighted this as one of the key messages of the state of the energy union, because it is true: we have more than 10% of europeans – more than 50 million european citizens – who are facing energy poverty and have problems paying for energy bills. we have to take action on these issues and equip the people with new skills if they are from the traditional industries and offer them a future in these new low—carbon economies. we need to equip them with new skills, and we will be working very closely on these proposals together with commissioner thyssen in the first months of next year. i see that time is flying, and there were a lot of questions. i would like to conclude by thanking this house and thanking the members of the european parliament for this very rich debate and for the many contacts we have had throughout the last nine months, here in strasbourg and in brussels. i also very much appreciate all those members of the european parliament who joined me on the energy union tour across european cities, across european enterprises and in all the citizen dialogues we had together. i very much appreciate this, because this helps us to bring this project to the places where it must be built – in our cities, our villages, our industry. i am very much encouraged by the support and the achievements we had over the nine months, and i can tell you all that i feel full responsibility to deliver on all the ambitious proposals we presented to you in 2016.
mr president, i want to speak on procedure. i was on the speaker list until yesterday. today, i came from eight-thirty and sat in the hall to listen to the report and the debate. at 9:30, my assistant informed me that i was no longer on the list of speakers. i signed up for "catch the eye". you didn't even give me the floor to "catch the eye". instead, you gave replies to the epp between two meps and many exceeded their speaking time. it is not fair to manage time to the detriment of other meps.
in writing.– the energy union is an ambitious strategy that will allow the diversification of the european energy supply, in particular future aviation package gas imports, to move away from our dependence on russia, and should therefore be one of our main priorities. i wish to see a much stronger focus on the citizen in the energy union and more measures to tackle energy poverty and help vulnerable consumers have affordable energy. i strongly support the request for a commission communication and action plan on the state of the energy union. i believe that its governance, reporting and national plans on how member states will meet the targets and other key indicators should be based on a legislative framework, not just on a voluntary basis, in order to ensure targets can be met. finally, we should ensure that the energy transition is based on energy efficiency, renewable energies and smart infrastructure.
in writing. i appreciate the commission's initiative for its concern to have an energy union. it is important to have common rules and a competitive energy market in the eu, but we need to make sure that the indicators set are achievable in all member states. the stage of energy infrastructure improvement is different in each member state and therefore the investment volume is different, as is the time to complete it. please note, commissioner, that we are talking about countries that have different energy efficiency building and energy mix. i appreciate your proposal to review the 248 energy infrastructure projects of common interest, but i suggest that you take account of the actual situations on the ground, particularly in eastern european countries. i see no concrete measures to avoid the negative effects in certain countries in the implementation of the energy strategy. in addition to protecting vulnerable consumers, you must, commissioner, take into account the pace you set for the decline in carbon emissions so as not to affect the transport sector and, of course, jobs. decarbonising energy is an important goal, but let's not forget to be careful not to de-industrialise the european union, given that the european union is not the biggest polluter in the world.
in writing. the annual reports presented by the european commission show that more steps have been taken this year towards strengthening the energy union, which will help reduce import dependency and carbon emissions. however, several short-term objectives remain to be achieved: rapid reform of the certificate system to protect the interests of european industry and help avoid its relocation; interoperability of european networks, protection of vulnerable consumers and price adjustment; digitalisation of networks to increase energy efficiency. the commission should come up with a legislative proposal to make an integrated internal energy market viable, based on cross-border regional cooperation and the exploitation of own resources in southern europe, as well as the new eastmed energy perspectives (cyprus, israel, lebanon, egypt). the commission must find solutions to reduce dependence on the russian monopoly and verify whether the recent north stream project is compatible with european rules. a legislative proposal on interconnectors that is favourable to all member states and eu regions is also needed. europe needs to manage its electricity and gas networks intelligently, and take the necessary steps to ensure that the 28 energy policies currently in place are based on common governance.
in writing. from an energy perspective, 2015 was marked by tensions in the east, persistently low oil prices, new prospects opened up by the nuclear deal with iran, and a continued decline in domestic fossil fuel production. nine months ago we launched a framework strategy for the energy union, and today the commission tells us that we have made significant progress towards creating a true internal energy market and the transition to a low-carbon, secure and competitive economy. as a member of the european parliament from romania, a country which plays an important role in the current context of the regional energy market in south-east europe and where the energy sector is of strategic importance, i draw attention to a few things: we must make energy transform from a diplomatic instrument into an economic instrument, serving small and large consumers alike. the social dimension of decarbonising the energy system is very important and needs to be addressed with great care, as the transition to a low-carbon economy will involve a profound change in many sectors of the national economy in member states such as romania, affecting companies and, by implication, jobs.
in writing. ‒ the problem of achieving legislative clarity and coherence is one faced by all systems, from national to international. of course, within the union, its strictness is felt both from the perspective of the member states and the beneficiaries, the former because they need to harmonise their national legislation within the union framework, and the latter to benefit from union provisions, transparency or, better, to know their rights as citizens of the union. achieving this legislative coherence requires not only that we are very careful when drafting laws, but also that we monitor their development and implementation, and that we review and optimise procedures. the commission has undertaken these objectives in line with its commitments under the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making and its policy on regulatory adequacy and will continue to implement them by identifying transitional acts that have already achieved their purpose or whose content has already been taken over by other acts. i voted in favour of repealing this series of acts which have been identified as obsolete because their maintenance would only mislead member states and citizens.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the expiry of the transitional period set out in protocol 36 on transitional provisions, annexed to the treaties, the commission has performed an assessment of the schengen acquis and of the legal instruments in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. a number of acts have been identified as obsolete because their content has been taken up by subsequent acts or because they are temporary in nature. in the inter-institutional agreement of 16 december 2003 the european parliament, the council and the commission agreed on reducing the volume of, and simplifying, union law, including by repealing obsolete acts. on the basis of its screening and in line with the commitments in the inter-institutional agreement on better law-making and its policy on regulatory fitness, the commission submitted a proposal to repeal as obsolete the following acts:- 11 decisions of the schengen executive committee because their content had been taken up in subsequent acts, and- council regulation (ec) no 189/2008 of 18 february 2008 on the testing of the second generation schengen information system (sis ii), the legal effect of which was exhausted once the sis ii became operational on 9 april 2013.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that is adapting the content of certain acts in the area of freedom, security and justice deemed to be obsolete because they have been taken up by successive acts or because they have temporary nature.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text as it was high time to update the schengen acquis. having an unclear or outdated text at this sensitive time was needlessly damaging for the interests of both member states who are inside and those members who are yet to join the schengen area, but should do so soon and would have had trouble, otherwise, with the outdated text.
in writing. ‒ with the aim of making the application of european law more efficient and transparent, the european commission has proposed to reassess the need for certain legislative acts at a certain time. the report we voted on today concerns the withdrawal from the schengen acquis of 11 acts in the field of police and judicial cooperation, which are considered to be obsolete because of their temporary nature or because their objectives have been taken over by their successors. the repeal of these acts cannot be achieved at the level of each member state, which is why the measure will be implemented at the level of the union. i believe that the withdrawal of obsolete legislation can only make the application of legislation in the member states more effective, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ european union legislation includes a number of acts that are no longer applied. those acts are no longer relevant because of their temporary nature or because their content has been taken over by subsequent acts. in order to improve transparency and to provide greater legal certainty for european citizens, such acts are withdrawn from the union legislative acquis. in view of this and taking into account the expiry of the transitional period provided for in protocol no 36 annexed to the treaties, the commission has carried out an evaluation of the schengen acquis. following this assessment, the commission proposed the repeal of 11 decisions of the schengen executive committee and of the regulation on the testing of the second generation schengen information system (sis ii), which had exhausted its legal effects by the time sis ii became operational on 9 april 2013. the decisions of the executive committee concerned, inter alia, visa policy, the exchange of statistical information, the application of stamps on passports, the fight against illegal immigration, the fight against illegal immigration. the legislative resolution of the european parliament supports the repeal of these obsolete acts. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the increasingly intensive exercise of citizens' right to free movement, it is becoming a reality that many of the acts that may fall within the criminal sphere may occur partially in the territory of several member states, which makes the judicial cooperation of these states necessary for the discovery of the facts and the persons involved, the administration of evidence and other aspects of the imposition of sanctions. the importance of this communication and cooperation of the authorities of all member states has been demonstrated in the course of the conclusion of several union acts and commitments, and the efforts of the commission, the council and the european parliament have also had an impact on citizens, who are safer wherever they are in the union. i welcome this initiative to reduce over-legislation and the burden on the legislative system, given the uncertainty that such legislative stains can create if they are maintained. in accordance with article 288 tfeu, regulations are binding in their entirety and directly applicable in all member states, thus better serving the purpose of the proposal, which is to repeal acts deemed to be obsolete. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the expiry of the transitional period set out in protocol 36 on transitional provisions annexed to the treaties, the commission has performed an assessment of the schengen acquis and of the legal instruments in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. a number of acts have been identified as obsolete because their content has been taken up by subsequent acts or because they are of a temporary nature. in the inter-institutional agreement of 16 december 2003 parliament, the council and the commission agreed on reducing the volume of, and simplifying, union law, including by means of repealing obsolete acts. on the basis of its screening and in line with the commitments in the inter-institutional agreement on better law-making and the its policy on regulatory fitness, the commission submitted a proposal to repeal as obsolete decisions of the executive committee sch/com-ex (93) 14 (combating drug trafficking) and (98) 52 (police handbook), declaration of the executive committee sch/com—ex (97) decl. 13 rev 2 (abduction of minors) and council decision 2008/173/jha of 18 february 2018 on the tests of the second generation schengen information system (sis ii).
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report, which will abolish the decision of the executive committee sch/com-ex (99) 11 rev. 2 on the agreement on cooperation in proceedings for road traffic offences, taking into consideration the fact that this agreement has never entered into force.
in writing. ‒ i supported this decision to repeal the outdated acts concerning police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters from the schengen acquis, as the application of those lateral protocols was already mostly taken into account through newer and better formulated documents.
in writing. ‒ the interinstitutional agreement signed between the european parliament, the council and the european commission calls, among other things, for a reduction in the volume of european legislation. on the basis of better law-making, the european commission has proposed to repeal a list of measures in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. i agree with the rapporteur on the inclusion of a decision (sch/com-ex (99) 11 rev. 2(8) in which the executive committee adopted a cooperation agreement on road traffic offences. the cooperation agreement, concluded only between certain member states and two third countries (iceland and norway), is not an internal act of the schengen acquis and has never entered into force.
in writing. ‒ european union legislation includes a number of acts that are no longer applied. those acts are no longer relevant because of their temporary nature or because their content has been taken over by subsequent acts. in order to improve transparency and to provide greater legal certainty for european citizens, such acts are withdrawn from the union legislative acquis. the european commission carries out a regular screening of the legislative acquis to identify acts that could be repealed in view of the expiry of the transition period provided for in the treaties. the european parliament legislative resolution concerns the proposal for a regulation repealing certain acts in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. the commission is proposing to repeal certain outdated decisions on the fight against drug trafficking, child abduction, the police manual and the testing of the second generation schengen information system (sis ii). the legislative resolution of the european parliament supports the repeal of these obsolete acts. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ european legislation must constantly adapt to new realities that are evolving on the union's territory, in order to serve the citizens it protects as faithfully as possible. this adaptation requires active monitoring of the development and application of legislation in the territory at all times, and this is precisely what the commission has set out to do, namely to carry out an assessment of the schengen acquis and the legal instruments in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. the proposals for repealing seven actions presented by the commission, together with the two proposals by the rapporteur on the repeal of two other legislative acts and a good determination of the place of the matter in the europol legislation, are the result of thorough analysis and constitute appropriate steps by which we can achieve greater legislative clarity and legal certainty. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that all the measures proposed are the appropriate means to achieve transparency of european union legislation and to provide european citizens with legal acts that have a practical equivalent in judicial instruments.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the expiry of the transitional period set out in protocol 36 on transitional provisions annexed to the treaties, the commission has performed an assessment of the schengen acquis and of the legal instruments in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. a number of acts have been identified as obsolete because their content has been taken up by subsequent acts or because they are of a temporary nature. in the inter-institutional agreement of 16 december 2003, parliament, the council and the commission agreed on reducing the volume of, and simplifying, union law, including by means of repealing obsolete acts. on the basis of its screening and in line with the commitments in the inter-institutional agreement on better law-making and the its policy on regulatory fitness, the commission submitted a proposal to repeals seven council joint actions whose content has been taken up in successive acts, and council act 1999/c 26/07 laying down the staff regulations applicable to europol employees. the latter applies only to very limited number of employment contracts concluded before the adoption of council decision 2009/371/jha on europol. only few such contracts are still in force and they will soon come to an end.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report, which will bring a better drafting of the document through its amendments and will abrogate the following two additional acts that have become obsolete: 1. convention of 17 june 1998 on driving disqualifications and council act 98/c 216/01; 2. council framework decision 2008/978/jha on the european evidence warrant for the purpose of obtaining objects, documents and data for use in proceedings in criminal matters (eew).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this decision as it is always very important to avoid the doubling or contradiction of legislation. as newer protocols, decisions and directives supplanted most of the outdated documents, we needed to make sure there are no longer any old and contradictory parts regulating important institutions such as europol.
in writing. ‒ the european commission regularly carries out a screening of the legislative acquis to identify acts that could be repealed in view of the expiry of the transition period provided for in the treaties. those acts are no longer relevant because of their temporary nature or because their content has been taken over by subsequent acts. in order to improve transparency and to provide greater legal certainty for european citizens, such acts are withdrawn from the union legislative acquis. following this assessment, the european commission has submitted a proposal to repeal 7 council joint actions, the content of which has been taken up in subsequent acts, and council act 1999/c 26/07 laying down the staff regulations of europol staff. the european parliament resolution supports the repeal of these obsolete acts and also proposes the repeal of two other acts which have become obsolete, namely the convention on the withdrawal of the right to drive motor vehicles and the council framework decision on the european evidence warrant for the purpose of obtaining objects, documents and data for use in criminal proceedings. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a decision on accession to the extended commission of the convention for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna (ccsbt) aims to approve the exchange of letters between the union and the ccsbt so that the eu can become a full member, given that the european union has been a cooperating non-contracting party since 2006. the union has actively contributed to the sustainable and sound management of marine resources and to combating illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, pursuing a policy of cooperation with all regional fisheries management organisations (rfmo). these organisations are set up by states concerned by fisheries in certain areas and have both an advisory and an administrative role, with competence in the technical field and in the area of control obligations. thus, only countries can accede to the ccsbt convention. as a result, the union, although playing an active role in regional tuna management organisations, is excluded from membership. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the active involvement of the union in the management of regional fisheries organisations must be embodied in the granting of full rights.
in writing. ‒ the proposal concerns authorisation of the exchange of letters between the eu and the extended commission of the convention for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna, (ccsbt). the signing of this instrument of international law will allow the eu to become a full member of the ccsbt extended commission, having enjoyed cooperating non-member status since 2006. the european union, in accordance with its commitments under the united nations convention on the law of the sea of 10 december 1982 relating to the conservation and management of straddling fish stocks and highly migratory fish stocks, has been cooperating very actively with all regional fisheries organisations in a bid to contribute to the rational and sustainable management of marine resources and combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. i voted in favour of this report that will allow full participation in the work of the ccsbt.
in writing. ‒ the commission for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna (ccsbt) is a regional fisheries management organisation (rfmo) responsible for the management of southern bluefin tuna wherever it is to be found. the convention for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna entered into force on 20 may 1994. the european union has been a cooperating non-member of the ccsbt extended commission since 2006. i voted for this report which will allow the eu to become a full member.
in writing. ‒ i support this report in my vote today, as it supports the council's decision to authorise the exchange of official letters between the eu and the commission for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna, with a view to the eu's membership of this regional organisation. it is in the interest of the eu to become part of this organisation, given that vessels flying the flag of member states fish in the waters concerned, which also involves incidental catches of bluefin tuna. this is also in line with the eu's objectives to protect and sustainably manage fish stocks.
in writing. ‒ tuna fishing is closely monitored by certain regional tuna management organisations. the european union has pursued a very active policy of cooperation with all regional fisheries management organisations, in line with the commitments it has undertaken under the provisions of the united nations convention on the law of the sea of 10 december 1982, with regard to the conservation and management of anadromous and highly migratory fish stocks. the ultimate objective is the rational and sustainable management of marine resources and, not least, the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. the european union plays an active role in six of these organisations. the signature of the convention for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna (ccsbt), an instrument of international law, will give the union full membership, although the union, through the european commission, has been cooperating with the ccsbt since 2006.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's draft legislative resolution on insurance intermediation aims to reform directive 2002/92/ec by harmonising national provisions in the insurance distribution sector with a view to applying the same level of consumer protection. insurance and reinsurance intermediaries play a key role in the distribution of insurance and reinsurance products within the union. thus, given that insurance products may be distributed by different categories of persons or institutions such as agents, insurance brokers and agents, insurance undertakings, travel agents and car rental companies, it is necessary that all such persons or institutions should be covered by this directive in order to ensure equal treatment between agents and consumer protection. the proposed directive aims to create the same level of consumer protection regardless of the distribution channels, while ensuring a level playing field between distributors. given that there are still considerable differences between the provisions of national law which prevent access to and the pursuit of insurance and reinsurance distribution activities in the internal market, the draft legislative resolution is appropriate in strengthening the internal market for insurance intermediation, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the supplementary report by werner langen, whom i would like to congratulate on the outcome of the directive’s recast. i also welcome the outcome of the negotiations with the council to broaden the scope of the directive, to strengthen rules on transparency and to align the rules regarding investment products with the markets in financial instruments directive (mifid). i believe it will improve the way insurance products are sold and the level of protection for consumers and retails investors. and these outcomes are achievable only through greater transparency on price and costs, the prevention of conflicts of interest, and better information and advice when selling products. i strongly support the reinforcement of the ‘tying practices’ rules, so that when insurance products are offered with another good or service, consumer will have the option of buying the main good without insurance. sanctions and reporting infractions are also important: member states have to ensure, when transposing the directive, that their competent authority will impose administrative sanctions and other measures applicable to all infringements of the national provisions, and take all necessary measure to ensure that they are implemented.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report, which is the only eu legislation that regulates the point of sale for insurance products so as to ensure the rights of the consumer. the revised directive seeks to improve regulation in the retail insurance market in an efficient manner. it aims to ensure a level playing field for all those involved in the selling of insurance products and to improve policyholder protection.
in writing. ‒ the supplementary report on the insurance intermediation directive clarifies a number of clauses, seeks to harmonise national provisions in the insurance distribution sector and updates the text of the directive to take account of new trends in the internal insurance market. insurance and reinsurance intermediaries are the main actors in the distribution of insurance and reinsurance products on the european union market. insurance may be distributed by natural or legal persons such as agents, brokers and insurance agents, banks, insurance companies, travel agents and car rental companies. the objective of the directive remains the same: equal treatment of insurance distributors and consumer protection, regardless of the distribution channel for insurance products. in order to achieve that objective, the european insurance and occupational pensions authority should establish, publish and regularly update a database with each insurance and reinsurance intermediary operating in the internal market. in parallel, member states should establish a single information point for citizens, providing them with access to this register or database.
mr president, i supported this report because i consider the growing phenomenon of child poverty in europe to be a major problem. in the last five years, more than 1.6 million children have been affected by child poverty in the european union, and as this trend is growing and negative, it is necessary that we, here at the european union level, address this problem and seek solutions. as a right-wing politician, i support the restrictive fiscal policies of individual nation-states in an effort to keep budgets balanced. on the other hand, it should be said that austerity measures should not affect children and should not increase their poverty, should not affect their social security and access to the school education system, because in the future we are creating the problem of an uneducated and socially weak generation, which can be a major problem for europe and also in the context of internal security.
mr president, your children are the citizens of the europe of tomorrow. the increasing number of children living in poverty and persistent extreme poverty is one of the most pressing challenges facing europe today. alarmingly, in 21st-century europe, malnourished children are on the rise, and diseases long thought to be conquered have resurfaced. it is sobering and beyond the immediate problem that in many member states the risk of child poverty also exists in families with high work intensity. the commission should define a roadmap to overcome these challenges, make the fight against child poverty and increasing school drop-out a priority in the governance of the european semester and the europe 2020 strategy, and set targets for reducing child poverty and social exclusion within the same strategy. this time, i would like to draw the attention of all member states to the importance of combating child poverty, which is the key to the future of our continent.
mr president, the right to education, the right to health care, the right to a roof over your head, the right to participate in decisions that affect you and many others are guaranteed to children in the un convention on the rights of the child. however, many children have never heard of it, and many governments seem to have never heard of it and are reluctant to enforce it. the union is in a very serious situation. one in four children now lives on the poverty line, and we're in the european union, a rich world. this is the result of irresponsible government policies on the part of governments. i voted for this report because it sets out measures to improve this situation, measures that have the potential to change children's lives, measures on access to education, health, housing. i hope that these recommendations will be implemented. child poverty is the poverty of parents who are unemployed and cannot afford to keep their children in school. a greek proverb says that a civilization flourishes when people plant trees in whose shade they will never stand. let's plant these trees. without children there is no future.
in writing. ‒ the report on reducing inequalities, especially child poverty, aims to develop policies to combat child poverty by reducing poverty drivers and strengthening social support targeted at children. in order to meet the europe 2020 target of reducing the number of people living in poverty by at least 20 million by 2020, it is necessary to give greater visibility to these policies to combat child poverty at the highest political levels of the union. given that one fifth of the total union population is under 18 years of age and that one in four children live at the poverty line or are socially excluded across the eu, member states need to take immediate action to combat poverty and pay greater attention to the use of the union's structural funds to increase overall well-being. i voted in favour of the report on reducing inequalities, in particular child poverty, considering that it is time for member states to act promptly in developing policies to prevent and combat poverty, guaranteeing the right of all children to prosperous living conditions and equal access to culture, health and well-being.
in writing. ‒ all children should be guaranteed the right to education, health services, protection, housing, the right to recreation and leisure, a balanced diet, the right to be raised in a family and the right to participate in decisions affecting them, in accordance with the un convention on the rights of the child. the convention is far from being met within the eu, with all reports indicating an increase in child poverty in europe. the risk of poverty and social exclusion increased from 26,5% to 28% between 2008 and 2012, and in 2013 (according to eurostat) in the eu-28 26,5 million children were at risk of poverty and social exclusion. i support the ep motion for a resolution on reducing inequalities, in particular child poverty, considering it necessary for member states to provide subsidies to guarantee the right to culture, sport and recreation for all children, with a particular focus on children living in poverty, children from remote areas, children with disabilities and migrants. i also believe it is important to strengthen social rights guaranteed by the state to protect children from abuse, violence and neglect.
in writing. ‒ i support and reinforce the rapporteur's idea that both the european commission and the european parliament should use the opportunity offered by the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework to increase the appropriations for the european social fund and the food aid programme for the most deprived persons. it is also important that the european commission put the european minimum income into practice, as supported by parliament in its 2010 resolution on the role of the minimum income in combating poverty and promoting an inclusive society in europe.
in writing. ‒ considering the alarming increasing levels of poverty and child poverty that the crisis and austerity policies have created in the eu, i believe it is about time to raise awareness about the need to develop policy responses to reduce poverty and inequalities in the eu and work towards the eu2020 targets. i strongly support the introduction, in the report, of the europe 2020 sub-target on reducing child poverty and social exclusion, to make the reduction of child poverty and social exclusion visible and explicit at all stages of the european semester, to include in each annual growth survey a specific section with the binding target on fighting child poverty and promoting children’s well-being. it is fundamental that we enhance universal welfare benefits targeting children and that we invest in free, public education. we need to offer a future to our next generation by breaking the vicious circle of poverty at the youngest age possible. this means ensuring that every child at risk of poverty has access to free healthcare, free education, decent housing and adequate nutrition.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report and all the amendments tabled because i believe that there is a need to step up policies to reduce inequality, especially child poverty. the increase in the number of children exposed, the risk of poverty, the large number, over 25 million children exposed to poverty, requires urgent measures to save children from the clutches of hunger, poverty and exclusion. investments are needed in policies to reduce early school leaving, education being an equal european right for all citizens. at the same time, poverty needs to be reduced and access to prevention and health care needs to be ensured. i consider this report and its provisions to be timely and i voted for it in the hope that the measures will be put into practice.
in writing. ‒ children are at a great risk of poverty in 19 member states. women are at greater risk of poverty than men and tackling women’s poverty is not only important in its own right but also of vital importance in efforts to reduce child poverty. in the eu, we must ensure that every child at risk of poverty has access to free healthcare, free education, decent housing and adequate nutrition. europe will be a better place if we make equal opportunities a reality for all children in europe. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ according to the un convention on the rights of the child, all children should be guaranteed the right to education, health services, housing, protection, to participate in decisions that affect them, leisure and free time, a balanced diet and to be raised within a family. i have voted for this report that will increase in quantity, amount, scope and effectiveness the support and social rights specifically directed to children but also to parents.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today because i believe that the european funds available to member states, and especially those planned for the period 2014-2020, must be directed much more effectively and massively towards the integration of marginalised communities, with the aim of fighting poverty and integrating these communities. it is also very important that there is a clear definition as soon as possible, containing indicators that are clear enough to be able to determine exactly which communities can be designated as marginalised. at the same time, it is important to take into account, when establishing these criteria, the flexibility of these communities and the cultural specificity of each country. as regards women and children in these communities, we must recognise that these categories are much more vulnerable to discrimination, and the lack of funds and strategies to include these communities will only accentuate these social injustices, intolerable for a european union of the century we live in.
in writing. ‒ i give my full backing to this report and the proposal for a child guarantee scheme. more substantial efforts are needed to break the cycle of poverty, poor nutrition, ill-health and underachievement in education. this cycle perpetuates existing inequalities and the disadvantages suffered by vulnerable groups. strong eu backing, including funding, for a child guarantee scheme could help to ensure that all children have a decent chance regardless of their background.
in writing. ‒ we have been used to dealing with poverty at national, regional and local levels. it is true that local authorities are at the forefront of tackling poverty among the population, but this situation should be given greater political visibility at union level, especially when social inequalities are at the root of the problem. unfortunately, children are the population segment most at risk of poverty in 19 member states. the statistics are worrying: despite commitments made by member states, more than one in four children now live at the poverty line or are socially excluded across the union. according to the un convention on the rights of the child, all children should be guaranteed the right to education, health care, housing and protection. the report we voted on today concerns measures to alleviate child poverty, in particular the creation of a guarantee and a fund to provide free access to healthcare, education and care and to improve labour market opportunities for parents, especially for women. i am personally a strong advocate for better integration of women into the labour market and have launched a number of actions to this end.
in writing. ‒ 27.7% of european children are at risk of poverty and social exclusion, and this will have consequences for them throughout their lives. unfortunately, the highest share of children living in poverty is in romania (51%), followed by bulgaria (45.2%) and hungary (41.4%). the lowest percentage is in the scandinavian countries, with the best situation in denmark (14,5%). given that this situation, aggravated in the years of economic crisis, seriously affects children's basic rights and has a severe impact over time on employment and social integration, i believe that effective and coordinated measures are urgently needed to reduce the gaps between member states also in this sensitive area. i voted in favour of the report on reducing inequalities, in particular child poverty, because the european strategy needs to be improved by guaranteeing access to free, quality public education for children of all ages, providing basic school supplies, nutritious meals and the necessary school transport for disadvantaged children, in order to encourage school attendance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on reducing inequalities with a special focus on child poverty. i agree with the un convention on the rights of the child stating that all children should be guaranteed the right to education, health services, housing, protection, recreation and leisure time, as well as a balanced diet and to be raised within a family. different reports on child poverty in europe show that children are increasingly under threat of poverty and social exclusion. i support that it is essential that member states and the european commission to take a number of meaningful measures to eliminate poverty and social exclusion among children. the report focuses on the causes of child poverty and how to tackle them.
currently, marginalised communities are defined by each member state on the basis of national indicators: social exclusion, high long-term unemployment rate, access to education, low level of education, poor living conditions, high level of discrimination and social services, excessive exposure to health risks or lack of access to health services. the commission has accepted partnership agreements which do not include marginalised communities. i voted for this report because it proposes to include marginalised communities in the processes of preparing, implementing and evaluating projects. you can't integrate them if you leave them out when you're discussing projects, especially those that involve these marginalized communities. the report also proposes better connectivity between regions as people living in cross-border areas are often marginalised because of their geographical location. the commission is required, according to the report, to provide explanations on european and national programmes to support entrepreneurs.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy is one of the most important tools the european union has to combat inequality and support territorial and social cohesion in its regions. an integrated approach is therefore required to combat all types of discrimination faced by marginalised communities. the situation of marginalised communities has worsened with considerable cuts in public spending, generating high levels of unemployment, poor delivery of basic public services such as education, health, social security. the commission has also identified a number of other negative factors that have contributed to the increase in poverty and social exclusion of marginalised groups following the evaluation of projects in the previous programming period. it was thus demonstrated that, in most cases, funding was not used explicitly to meet the needs of the target groups, with the implementation of projects being superficial and without the expected results. this report therefore emphasises the importance of member states taking responsibility for improving the situation of marginalised communities and provides recommendations on how to overcome the problems encountered in the previous programming period, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ in all european societies, there are communities and groups facing structural exclusion and who are marginalised by much of society, lacking access to basic public infrastructure and services. poverty, unemployment and poor health conditions often disproportionately affect these communities. there is no uniform definition of marginalised communities at eu level, but the term covers a wide range of concepts: disadvantaged neighbourhoods, the most disadvantaged or materially deprived people, people at risk of poverty and groups in society who are disadvantaged and discriminated against. the concept of marginalised communities was introduced in the erdf regulation in 2013 with the aim of tackling the consequences of marginalisation. i believe that the eu has a responsibility to pursue and achieve this goal on an ongoing basis. i support the ep's motion for a resolution on cohesion policy and marginalised communities, because eu cohesion policy is one of the most powerful tools for tackling inequalities and supporting territorial and social cohesion. i also believe that an integrated approach is needed to tackle all types of discrimination faced by marginalised communities.
in writing. ‒ i would like to underline the important role that social entrepreneurship, cooperatives, self-help houses and alternative enterprises can play in empowering women in marginalised communities and i believe that the cohesion funds, in particular the european social fund, must support investments in this area with a strong gender perspective.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy is a way of bringing regions closer to the union and to ensure solidarity between member states. its implementation must tackle the crucial challenge of poverty and exclusion of young people and children, adults and people with disabilities. i believe that, in order to reduce disparities in the eu, we absolutely have to call for a european role in policies for the inclusion of marginalised communities. the commission must come up with a definition of marginalised communities in order to allow all these eu citizens to benefit from the european structural and investment funds embedded in the eu cohesion policy. i would like to express my strong support to the reference, in the text, to the need to fight ‘anti-gypsyism’, as the roma people are one of the most socially excluded communities. the commission should provide detailed information about the take-up of funding opportunities for marginalised communities and develop an analysis that allows the drawing of appropriate conclusions and the identification of obstacles that might prevent further take-up.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy is one of the strongest instruments of the european union and it must be used in order to fight inequality and support territorial and social cohesion. the term ‘marginalised’ covers a broad range of concepts, such as the most deprived or materially deprived people, people at risk of poverty, and groups in society that are disadvantaged or discriminated against. we must have a definition of marginalised communities in order to allow all these eu citizens to benefit from the european structural and investment funds which are embedded in the eu cohesion policy.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy is one of the strongest instruments the european union has at its disposal with which to fight inequality and support territorial and social cohesion in its regions. in all european societies there are groups and communities that face structural exclusion and segregation from the majority society and do not have access to even basic public infrastructure and services. i have voted for this report that will instate quality evaluation and monitoring mechanisms so that interventions lead to long-term and sustainable results. using eu funds for the inclusion of marginalised communities can become a great opportunity for promoting and supporting greater cohesion in european societies.
in writing. ‒ i support this report in my vote today because i believe that the european funds available to member states, and especially those planned for the period 2014-2020, should be better used to integrate marginalised communities and to fight poverty in these communities. it is also very important that there should be a clear definition as soon as possible, with a set of indicators that are clear enough to designate certain communities as marginalised but at the same time flexible enough to be applied to the specificities of each member state. as for the women and children in these communities, we need to understand that these categories are subject to multiple discrimination, and without funds and strategies to include and raise these communities to a normal standard, we will not be able to combat the long-term effects of this situation.
in writing. ‒ eu funds can be a powerful lever to alleviate inequalities and improve the lives of people in marginalised communities. i fully back the call in this report to ensure that marginalised communities are better served by accountable and transparent use of eu funds. the commission should look closely at how marginalised communities can be identified and defined so that funding can be properly directed on the basis of clearly established guidance. we must make all the necessary efforts to combat discrimination and social exclusion and ensure that marginalised groups are integrated into a diverse, tolerant and fair society. this will bring benefits to all.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy is the most effective instrument for economic, social and territorial consolidation. experience in managing social disparities shows that we need action at european level in reducing and eradicating poverty and exclusion, preventing segregation and promoting equal access and opportunities for all citizens, including the most marginalised groups. in complementing action taken at union level, i believe that multi-level governance and coordination play a key role in the preparation and implementation of programmes for the integration of marginalised communities. women from marginalized communities are most at risk. in addition to low employment rates, they face multiple and severe discrimination. another issue that the report considers is the need for a definition of marginalized communities. why do i think this is necessary? member states must retain the responsibility to develop their own national indicators on the basis of which to develop a definition, but i believe that we need a set of guidelines from the commission to harmonise the process.
in writing. ‒ the concept of 'marginalized communities' refers to various groups and individuals in society, such as minorities, roma, people with disabilities, people living below the poverty line or at risk of poverty, migrants, refugees and socially excluded groups. the economic crisis and the budget cuts it has caused have repeatedly generated serious budgetary problems for municipalities and have led, in the member states, to the aggravation of existing problems such as unemployment, lack of social security and lack of public health services. moreover, this has led to a decrease or even a lack of actions related to marginalised groups aimed at improving their integration. the report highlights the need to mobilise cohesion policy funds to improve living conditions and facilitate access for marginalised communities to education, housing, healthcare, employment, childcare and social services. furthermore, the need for a long-term perspective is highlighted in order to be effective, as well as the mobilisation of mechanisms to guarantee the impact on target groups and to address the problem of exclusion and marginalisation. i therefore voted in favour of the report on cohesion policy and marginalised communities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report regarding the eu cohesion policy and marginalised communities. the crisis has had a direct negative impact on members of marginalised communities in the eu, in addition also many municipalities in the member states still continue to face severe budgetary constraints which prevented them from dealing adequately with marginalisation in society. the main responsibility for changing the situation of marginalised communities lies with the member states, but also the eu cohesion policy can play a powerful role in providing an integrated approach to tackling all the different forms of discrimination that marginalised communities face. using eu funds for the inclusion of marginalised communities can become a great opportunity for promoting and supporting greater cohesion in european societies.
in writing. ‒ the future of the european union is linked to peace, security, development and the human rights situation in the world, and the need for cooperation with the un is clear. the challenges facing the eu require global solutions, and global problems necessarily require european action. due to the close correlation between the principles and objectives of the european union's foreign policy, as enshrined in article 21 of the treaty on european union, and those of the un, and the fact that article 21 of the teu explicitly requires respect for the principles of the un charter and international law, the future of both organisations is intrinsically linked and their smooth functioning also depends on how they manage their cooperation and actions. given that the eu is already actively involved, under the auspices of the un, in promoting peace, security and progress, it is necessary to strengthen the role of the union and its member states in the un on all areas of external concern, including crisis management, atrocity prevention, strengthening the rule of law, humanitarian crises and humanitarian aid. the eu cannot tackle these threats alone, but needs the support of international partners, which is why i voted in favour of this report, considering eu-un cooperation to be fundamental.
in writing. ‒ the eu needs global partners to achieve its foreign policy objectives, particularly in areas such as peace and security, organised crime, terrorism, regional conflicts, failed states and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. article 21 (1) teu states that the eu and its member states share the values and principles of the un charter. the eu security environment is increasingly volatile due to the high number of security challenges. conflicts such as those in ukraine, syria, iraq, the rise of the terrorist organisation isis, the crisis in libya and the terrorist threat in africa (sahel, libya and the horn of africa) pose serious threats that require global responses. i support the ep's motion for a resolution on the eu's role in the un. i believe that in pursuing its foreign policy objectives (in line with the treaty), it is important for the eu to work towards strengthening global governance within the un system and increasing its influence within the un system, all in the context of the eu's commitment to actively support a comprehensive reform of the un system in order to strengthen its legitimacy, transparency, regional representation, accountability and effectiveness in responding to today's complex and multidimensional challenges.
in writing. ‒ i fully support the initiative to persuade the european union to support a woman for the post of un secretary-general, which provides that the eu will support a woman in the next election for the post of un secretary-general. in this way, we could witness a world first, by electing a woman to a position of global prestige and significance.
in writing. ‒ today we are called to face unforeseen, dramatic events that are already changing the world forever. the number of humanitarian emergencies has never been higher and the refugee crisis represents the ultimate test for the cohesion of the european union. in order to deal effectively and successfully with these transnational issues, it is fundamental that we strengthen cooperation with the un institutions, making sure that our values are promoted, our ambitions are commonly shared and our engagements are mutually respected. we should therefore push for the establishment of a high-level dialogue on the implementation of the sustainable development goals. in order to achieve them, further cooperation is required in the areas of education, health, climate action, food and nutrition, water, sanitation and hygiene, child protection, gender equality, social inclusion, humanitarian aid, migration, human rights, non-discrimination on all ground, good governance and democracy building. in particular, i would like to underline that one of our main priorities should be the protection of children and of women, whose protection is crucial for the achievement of sustainable and equitable development for all.
in writing. ‒ i support the reform of the un as a means of strengthening the efficiency of the organisation. the eu must play an active role within the organisation, project its values and contribute to providing global solutions to global problems.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that should improve the eu’s prosperity, better protect its security and ensure that its governments comply with global rules, not only to safeguard europe’s prosperity and security but also with the intention of spreading respect for democracy, human rights, and the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it highlights some major points concerning the current nature of the united nations organisation which i think, if reformed, would be beneficial to the eu in particular and the whole world in general. the fact that, taken together, the union is a major economic, political and military actor in the world, with two nuclear powers, a large population and immense political power, reflects, i believe, the outdated nature of the un security council. the un needs a deep and comprehensive reform, streamlining the unsc, but also the rules of the unga, the coordination between its bodies, more tools for its key tasks (for example preventing genocides) and better accountability and transparency of its institutions to its members. the eu needs to be an integral part of this reform, if not an outright leader.
in writing. ‒ the eu and its member states are collectively the single largest financial contributor to the un system, with contributions amounting to 35% of the un regular budget, and 36.8% of the un peacekeeping budgets. moreover, the eu and its member states provide about half of all the voluntary contributions to un funds and programmes. based on these figures i believe that the eu needs to play a prominent role in reforming the un system to make it more democratic, efficient and transparent. i welcome the proposals in the current text. i particularly support the call to reform the un security system with the objective of granting the eu a permanent seat. that will give the eu the opportunity to play an active role within the un in a way that reflects our soft power. i also welcome the support of my colleagues for my initiative to promote gender equality within the un system, by asking the eu to support a female candidate for the role of the un secretary general in the upcoming elections. this comprehensive text will help us define the role that the eu can play, by leading a systematic reform of the un system. therefore i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu's role in the un, as the un is the world's leading organisation for improving global governance and the best framework for promoting eu values and interests. the principles and objectives of the european union's foreign policy are closely linked to those of the un, and are founded on respect for the principles of the un charter and international law. in an increasingly volatile environment, the eu faces a number of security challenges, such as the conflicts in eastern ukraine, syria and iraq, the rise of the terrorist organisation isis and the terrorist threat in africa, and global responses are needed, as the eu cannot address these threats on its own, but needs the support of international partners. to better contribute to its foreign policy objectives, the eu must therefore work to strengthen global governance within the un system and increase its influence and that of its member states within this system. in this regard, the report underlines the need for a comprehensive reform of the un system, with the aim of strengthening the eu's legitimacy, accountability and effectiveness in this framework.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the role of the eu within the un. in this report, parliament recalls that the eu and its member states share the values and principles of the un charter (as stated in article 21(1) teu) and have a crucial role in promoting those principles as well as the goals of the un, through the external action of the union. parliament welcomes the fact that the eu and its member states play an active part and contribute to the work of the un system in different ways and formats. the report recalls the eu’s commitment to actively support a comprehensive reform of the un system in order to strengthen its legitimacy, its regional representation, and its transparency, accountability and effectiveness.
member of the commission.– mr president, thank you very much for this high-quality debate. i would like to show – of course, with the normal differences between groups and meps – consensus on the objectives that we want to obtain together. a few comments on this debate. firstly, tax evasion and avoidance cannot be tolerated any more. tax fairness is supported by all political groups, and for that you will have the full support of the commission. secondly, we need to build a tax system for the 20th century. that is exactly what we want to do together. thirdly, implementation by member states needs to be ensured, not only within the eu – that is about tax rulings – but also more widely, and globally, at the level of the g20 at least, on the automatic exchange of information. of course, i will advocate for the fast adoption of the ccctb – and i mention the three cs and not just the two. there, we must pursue a level playing-field, reduce complexities for our companies and eliminate aggressive tax practices. fourthly, on the eu action on beps: yes, i want the eu to be in the leadership. i fully support the remarks made here for an eu which is law-compliant and your concern with preventing 28 different approaches. we need to have only one common approach. fifthly, on a country-by-country report: yes, we will have a complete impact assessment. i want this to be public, of course, but at the same time the commission will also think about protecting eu businesses’ competitiveness, as called for by several member states. everything must be looked at. but again, this is not against my personal preference, which is well known. when we talk about publicity, there is ‘public’ in it, and we must do as much as possible in that field. sixthly, on access to documents: the commission has already given access to 350 working documents of the code of conduct since 1998. by virtue of the inter-institutional agreement between parliament and the commission of 2010, we need to have the formal agreement of member states in order to share more. i did all that i could, and i am very willing to cooperate even more. we discussed that with the president of the committee, and you may be sure that the commission is not a reluctant part of it. but of course i understand your concerns, and i will try to find an even better solution. on the extension of taxes mandate, the commission has already cooperated with the committee so far and will continue to do so. the committee’s political pressure is of high importance to achieve progress, and i see that positively, not as a constraint or as criticism (criticism is part of democracy) but really as positive pressure. seventhly, on an external dimension towards third countries and a definition of tax haven: the commission is looking into this in the framework of its june planned follow-up. i said in what spirit i would advance on that, and we all agree on that. eighthly, unfair tax competition is to the detriment of all, except certain multinationals. tax competition, as mentioned, should not lead to tax war. many of you said that, and i fully share that view. ninthly, and lastly, improved dispute resolution mechanisms following the june action plan. we have started to work on that, and we will continue to do that together. i would like to finish by once again congratulating the taxe committee for the work that has already been done. i look forward to further cooperation with parliament and to bringing forward our agenda for a fairer, more transparent and more efficient tax system for europe’s citizens and businesses. we, on our side, will continue our work with determination, conviction and ambition. mais une dernière réflexion, peut-être, après vous avoir tous écouté. j'ai eu la chance, dans ma vie politique, de siéger dans les trois institutions. j'ai été membre de ce parlement pendant six ans, y compris vice-président du parlement. j'ai été au conseil pendant sept ans, y compris deux ans dans le conseil ecofin et maintenant je suis à la commission. je connais par cœur les jeux de rôles qui peuvent nous regrouper ou nous séparer: je ne confonds pas le parlement, la commission et le conseil, chacun est à sa place. mais si nous voulons avancer sur ces sujets délicats, pour le bien-être de nos citoyens, ne nous opposons pas les uns aux autres. c'est vain et il n'y a pas, dans cette affaire, les bons et les méchants. c'est seulement si la commission prend des initiatives fortes, c'est seulement si le parlement met en place des pressions fortes et intelligentes que les états membres – qui ont le pouvoir de décider en la matière – lèveront eux aussi certains blocages. et donc par tempérament, sans doute, mais aussi par expérience, je vous invite davantage à la coopération qu'à la confrontation, une coopération qui peut être virile ou qui peut être forte, pardon je ne veux pas apparaître sexiste, et qui est la condition pour faire avancer la cause que nous défendons tous ensemble.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 25 november 2015. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. it is a shame that today in the european union some member states have refused to make available to the special committee on taxation the documents requested in relation to letters of tax concession granted to transnational companies. in many cases, such letters of comfort have allowed transnational companies to shift profits from the countries where they are made and should be taxed in other countries where simple post offices operate. these tax practices must be stopped without delay and the council, the commission, the european parliament and the member states bear full responsibility to the citizens for their cessation.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr josé manuel fernandes and mr gérard deprez, on behalf of the european parliament delegation to the conciliation committee on budgets, on the joint draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016 approved by the conciliation committee in the budgetary procedure (11706/201514195/2015 - c8-0274/2015 - 2015/2132(bud)) (a8-0333/2015).
mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council, 2016 is the third year of the mff 2014-2020. the implementation of the 2014-2016 budget should underpin the budgetary adjustment requested by the mff. current challenges - outstanding payments, the refugee crisis, now terrorist attacks - have put a lot of pressure on the 2016 budget. it is to the credit of the european parliament, the commission and, for the first time in a long time, the council that a compromise has been reached that can ensure both the implementation of policies and the overcoming of crises. all the facilities provided for by the mff have been used to the maximum. it should be noted, however, that if member states had waived unforeseen revenue and unspent amounts, an even better situation could have been achieved. it is important to minimise the outstanding amounts in cohesion policy, to recover part of the funds taken over for the esi from horizon 2020, to give due weight to the youth initiative. the data shows that new european policies have started very slowly. an evaluation of the new rules, strategies, partnership agreements is required in order to be able to schedule the implementation of the 2017-2020 budget. the budgetary adjustment must contain the will of the european institutions and the member states to create added value for every euro invested at european level. the effectiveness of the implementation of the european funds should be based on the evaluation of results on the basis of pre-established indicators.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure i understand that you appreciated the budget but that you think job creation is important. do you think that in the context in which the 2016 budget was built, and we saw here a consensus between the three institutions, more funds could have been allocated for 2016 for small and medium-sized enterprises? or do you think that's the optimal value that could be provided by the 2016 budget, because jobs ultimately give people security of life?
madam president, i would also like to extend my thanks to parliament’s rapporteurs for the way in which they conducted their work, and i would also like to thank the commission vice-president and minister gramegna for the way in which they have fulfilled their missions. in my short intervention, i would like to focus on the importance of continuing the youth employment initiative, be it in its current form or in a revised form. my view is that it is crucial to send a signal to the european youth that they are still a priority for decision-makers at european level. especially in these times, when we see that the lack of education and little prospect for jobs leads to radicalisation, we have to use all available instruments to secure a future for young people in europe. in this sense i urge the commission, as stated in the final conciliation text, to analyse the results of the youth employment initiative and to propose changes, if needed, so that this programme can continue until 2020. youth unemployment still exists in europe. the job is not yet done. the young people of europe still need our help. very briefly on migration: i very much welcome the fact that we succeeded in ensuring an adequate budget in headings 3 and 4. i now urge the member states to acknowledge the risks ahead and act by ensuring that the eu trust funds for africa and syria are adequately financed. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– what was the question? i would like to say that my observation is valid, whether we are referring to young refugees, migrants to europe or to citizens who were born, have grown up and are educated in europe. it is a valid fact that, no matter where these people come from, unless they have a job, a good education and prospects, there are risks, including the risk of radicalisation. that is why i think that high—quality education, jobs and so on are important, irrespective of whether these people have just emigrated to europe or were born here.
we have a european budget focused on growth, on investment, on policies designed to respond to the latest challenges at european level, even if it is limited by the multiannual financial framework. it is proof that the age of austerity is over, that both the commission and the council have understood that we need to have a development-oriented budget to support our common policies. we have allocated additional funds for youth, for employment, for farmers, for innovation and for security, and we must continue. i hope that the new government of romania, which is now working on the new budget, also understands that the european budgetary logic has changed. we must spend public funds efficiently in the interest of the citizen, and this requires public investment, the protection of the categories affected by the various crises - i am talking about young people, farmers, civil servants, pensioners, and mechanisms for the development of the local economy. this european budget shows, once again, that through political dialogue and by taking account of our different political views, we can build a european budget that reflects the public and citizens' interests.
madam president, the 5,000 european citizens who have left to fight alongside terrorist organisations in iraq and syria are certainly our failure. we have to lean on the cause and we have to prevent that number from rising. but at this moment we must first stop any terrorist threat and attack on us and as such, some urgent measures are required: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's policy on the protection of the environment and the environment in the context of the implementation of the eu's policy on the protection of the environment. the dismantling of terrorist groups must also be done mainly by combating illicit financing. the international financial action group has blacklisted afghanistan, pakistan, iran, iraq. these are just a few of the countries that fund terrorism. terrorism is financed by money produced by organized crime networks, corruption and money laundering. money produced by black money that is laundered must become a crime, money laundering must become a crime in every country and must be strictly enforced. financial institutions must stop opening anonymous accounts and must identify the beneficial owners of companies.
madam president, after the paris attacks, a news story went around the world and revealed the hideous face of religious terrorism. in particular, the article presented the revelations of a european citizen of fundamentalist islamic faith, second generation in europe, who was tired of waiting for a suicide mission. the latter accuses the saudis in his revelations of favoring his relatives, putting them in front for suicide missions. i remember, the character is one who was born, raised in europe, who was indoctrinated in fundamentalist communities and turned against the society that welcomed his parents with open arms. words are redundant. in this context, i consider that the measures required by this report are those which must be implemented as a matter of urgency. i believe it is time for europe, and indeed the member states, to have two essential legislative packages urgently in place to prevent this phenomenon. the first is that of an internet traffic control with the strict purpose of identifying and blocking access to virtual environments that make fundamentalist propaganda. a second package of laws, with strict addressability, would be needed to prevent european citizens from accessing financial transfers of hidden funds that isis fundamentalists maintain in europe.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam commissioner, i congratulate our colleague, édouard martin, and the shadow rapporteur on the work they have done in preparing this report on the european base metals industry. i think we can all agree on the timeliness and importance of this document, both in the context of the current situation in the member states and in the context of the review of the ets. the high prices in europe as well as the dumping from third countries have the consequence of rapid de-industrialisation of the steel sector. the employment rate in the sector decreased by 20% compared to 2007 and the demand for steel produced in the european union decreased by 28%. the irony is, commissioner, that many decades ago those who built the foundations of the european union started with coal and steel. we risk talking very quickly, perhaps even during your mandate, about steel no longer being produced in the european union and coal already being history. the compensation scheme based on state aid for indirect costs has created a new source of unfair competition in the eu single market between producers whose activity is based on the massive use of electricity. i believe that this compensation should be harmonised and granted at european level to ensure a level playing field with global competitors and european producers, and to ensure effective protection against carbon leakage. steel is not the only sector facing significant problems, more industrial sectors in the european union are suffering from global overproduction, low prices and behaviour that distorts fair trade. in view of the situation of the steel industry at european level, but in particular the urgency of the situation in some member states, the commission should explain why the existing anti-dumping measures are not properly applied and why they are not effective. finally, i would stress that the european union needs a strong, competitive industry and quality jobs. that's my message to you, commissioner.
mr president, strategically europe is becoming more and more dependent on steel and aluminium imports, losing jobs and security. the european steel and aluminium industry is becoming uncompetitive, not because of technologies, but because of dumped imports and europe's own climate and energy policy. what's going on? what's going on? it happens that basic metallurgical processes are moving from europe to emerging countries along with greenhouse gas emissions, emerging countries that are not subject to european standards. by contrast, countries in europe are importing more and more steel and aluminium intermediates, reporting greenhouse gas reductions. we need more balance in european climate and energy policies and we need firm action against dumped imports.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, colleagues, a healthy, functional society needs healthy people. employees working in a safe and healthy environment will enjoy not only their lives but also their work, and thus they will be more productive. therefore, investing in safety and health at the workplace is a win-win situation for both the employers and the employees. to achieve this we need clear and simple legislation and its enforcement. today we have 24 directives which regulate this subject, yet the number of accidents and work-related diseases is extremely high. this discrepancy is mostly the result of red tape inherent in a heavy, overlapping and burdening legislation. it is undeniable that there are many work-related risks, both traditional and emerging, but i strongly believe that the focus should not be on adding new pieces of legislation to the pile of existing ones, thereby overloading the employers and resulting in the end in a very low level of compliance. 85% of european jobs are created by smes, yet they are the most encumbered by the legislation as it is today. compliance requires allocation of resources, financial expertise and time—wise ones while trying to stay competitive and generate jobs. this status quo is counterproductive. our emphasis as legislators should be on elaborating a simplified and efficient framework that is easy to understand and implement, that does not necessarily involve great financial costs for employers, and that is ultimately beneficial for employees, the economy and society as a whole. (applause)
in writing. according to european statistics, more than 4 000 workers die each year in accidents at work and the number of fatal occupational diseases is over 150 000 per year. in the current context it is essential for europe to promote a safe and healthy working environment for all workers throughout the entire working life cycle. we must not forget that the european labour market is changing. the number of precarious jobs is increasing, as is the number of women in these jobs. in addition, new forms of employment are emerging and new technologies have brought with them new challenges in terms of occupational safety. all these require viable solutions and an appropriate process for collecting comparable data on occupational diseases and exposures, precisely to identify best prevention practices. the economic costs of accidents at work and occupational diseases are significant and the particular complexity of many new and emerging risks requires immediate action at eu level.
the question is "blue cardboard". madam president, i would like to ask our colleague, mr le hyaric, whether after all these terrorist attacks in europe, it is not perhaps time to establish a european union counter-terrorism agency, with its own intelligence services and specialised military counter-terrorism forces? do you agree, mr le hyaric, that the time has come to do so?
apparently everything is in flemish on all channels. anyway, we will try to move on.
mr president, at the moment it is hard to evaluate the impact of the latest attacks in paris on european society and its fundamental values. our core system of values, liberties and democratic rights has been shaken. it is our responsibility to ensure that nothing similar happens again, by adopting a more efficient framework of social integration – not assimilation but social integration – combating radicalisation and, first and foremost, neutralising the root causes of the extremist behaviour of terrorist organisations. in order to establish a safer environment, we have to define a balanced framework in which security and liberty can coexist, as you cannot be free without being secure. we must speak more to the alienated, self—isolating communities in which violent ideologies find recruits, in order to share the humanistic values of europe with them. another problem right now is the fighting in syria. there is a high risk that daesh, knowing they are about to lose ground in syria, will take further action in europe and transfer their operations and their attacks to europe. we have to be prepared for that. but what still remains unanswered is why, today, we see so little intelligence sharing among our member states. why are terrorist organisations still being actively financed, considering that the whole banking industry is more or less in the hands of the western world? why is europe today still unable to work jointly with arab leaders to reform the islamic south? why is europe still unable to control its schengen borders properly? and one final question: with one of the two seats of the parliament in a state of emergency and the other on the highest level of alert against terrorism, what more can we expect?
i really appreciate the fact that i was rapporteur for that report and you wanted to get some extra time for that, but thank you very much anyway.
mr president, i would first of all like to emphasize that the paris attacks have created a european solidarity which, for once, has not been confined to words. as we know, the mutual defence clause in article 42 (7) was activated for the first time and the european union has therefore chosen to give substance to this solidarity of the member states. the next step is to implement this commitment effectively. i think that the member states, including my own country, romania, must coordinate quickly. we must put together a joint action because a war is a war. this requires resources, it requires troops, including redeployment of military personnel. on the other hand, we must know that the caliphate is attacking in various places, not only in europe, and that solidarity is not only about the war in syria.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. just a few months after the charlie hebdo journalists were executed in cold blood, the attacks of 13 november come to reinforce the danger posed by islamic terrorism. in the aftermath of the massacre, the evidence of human solidarity was truly moving, and the encouragement and messages sent to the french people showed that the world still has resources of vitality. european leaders must take responsibility, because the threat of terrorism shows no sign of stopping, on the contrary. the fact that the terrorists attacking european states are mainly citizens of the union, born or raised in europe, who have been radicalised in the meantime, reinforces the conviction of the ineffectiveness of the inclusion policies implemented so far. another point to consider is the discovery among the bombers of a possible syrian immigrant who arrived in europe this year, which raises serious questions about the narrative that refugees can be received without any controls, even though the syrian passport found at the scene of one of the bombings was most likely a fake. it is not enough for one member state alone to take the necessary measures to ensure community security, and i therefore believe that now more than ever a strong effort is required to re-establish a new 'european concert' to combat terrorism.
in writing.– the criminal attacks in paris have brought guerrilla war onto the streets of europe, directly affecting the individual security of the european citizens. two conclusions: first, that euro-atlantic security gets abruptly an internal dimension, to complement the external one we were used to until now. second, that those two dimensions have to be connected and the instruments the eu has to deal with each of them have to be integrated, preferably in one single spectrum, starting with intelligence, then police, then civil defence, then gendarmes and, finally, the armed forces. technically, that raises two problems: intelligence sharing among the eu’s own agencies and among the ms should be significantly increased and, second, how to use the armed forces in preserving the internal security of the ms. apart from new regulations and instruments, the eu should engage in a review of the existing ones, of which quite a number do exist but have never been used! in a larger sense, every response we come with should try to preserve the right balance between privacy and public security and attempt – as much as possible – to avoid making our lives even more miserable, thus denying an indirect ‘victory’ to terrorism.
in writing. many of us believe that europe will not be changed by terrorism. i, on the other hand, believe that europe will change in the light of the effects of this black friday. this is the most difficult moment since the second world war! we've all felt the threat even as we try not to let fear take over. i'm afraid the emergency will become the norm. i don't want to say that "refugee" is synonymous with "terrorist", but in the current situation, where we are unable to control our borders, i think that many fundamentalists, as we have seen, will take this opportunity to move around the european space. i therefore stress the need to increase financial investment in security measures at the eu's external and internal borders. to defeat terrorism, we must, before our fellow citizens, here and now, have a clear and real picture of the islamic state (although it's crazy to call it the stat). international forces must first of all find a way to cut off its funding channels, its vital flow: the business cycle. this area must be sealed off despite the financial interests - only then will we defeat terrorism.
in writing. never in its more than half-century of existence has the eu faced challenges like those we are facing today, when the forces that have sought to tear apart the european construction from within meet those that are tearing it apart from without. the paris attacks have already achieved their goal, because fear and mistrust seem to be taking hold of us all. the eu's response and the member states' responses will make the difference whether paris is the union's september 11 or not. the greatest stake is at the same time the greatest conquest of the eu, namely the area of free movement. the eu ceases to exist in the absence of the free movement area. if the schengen agreement no longer meets the challenges we all face today, then the agreement must be amended. it is just that, an agreement and a regulation agreed by the member states and which they must all adapt to reality. the amendment of this agreement should not in any way raise barriers in the eu, but adapt security measures and european cooperation to new realities. double standards, hypocrisy and endless repetition of the same speeches without action put our union at risk.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of draft amending budget (dab) no 8/2015: own resources - european data protection authority. this report provides for a correction of the eu budget, namely a revision of the traditional resource forecasts, the budgeting of the outstanding vat and gni balances for 2014 and the budgeting of the vat and gni balances for 2015. draft amending budget no 8 will also result in a reduction of eur 123 474 in commitment and payment appropriations in the budget of the european data protection supervisor, as well as a reduction of the gni-based contributions of the member states of eur 9,4 million. last but not least, the impact of the 8th eap will be eur 9 403.4 million, which represents a reduction in member states' contributions to the eu budget.
in writing. ‒ substantial additional financial means are necessary to address the current refugee crisis. i therefore approved the council position on draft amending budget no 8/2015.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report, which will have the impact of a eur 9 403,4 million reduction in member states’ contributions to the union budget.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument in the context of the immediate budgetary measures provided for in the european agenda on migration in view of the recent financial challenges posed by the migrant and refugee crisis. in this context, there is a strong need for a massive involvement of the european authorities of the place of jurisdiction to ensure a smooth and unhindered process. the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to complement funding from the general budget of the eu for the financial year 2016 therefore constitutes a solution to the existing financial problems. the annual unused amounts available for the flexibility instruments in the financial years 2014 and 2015 should be used for this mobilisation. the amounts foreseen for redistribution are eur 734,2 million in 2016, eur 654,2 million in 2017, eur 83 million in 2018 and eur 58,6 million in 2019.
in writing. ‒ substantial additional financial means are necessary to address the current refugee crisis. i therefore approved the council position on draft amending budget no 8/2015.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report, which will bring more flexibility for the union’s budget, especially addressing the refugee crisis.
in writing. ‒ i have supported, by my vote today, this report initialising the negotiations between the representatives of the european parliament and the council on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument in the context of migration measures. the budgetary implications of the recent migration phenomenon in the eu, the preparation of member states to provide living conditions for these people are extremely important and these costs were not anticipated in 2013 when the 2014-2020 budget framework was negotiated and approved. it was a matter of urgency that this flexibility instrument, which will allow the use of the eur 1.506 million, be approved and that the commission be given the green light to relocate the funds in the new context.
in writing. ‒ i have stated my support for the report on the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund (eusf): payment of advances in the 2016 budget as any instrument that can contribute quickly, efficiently and flexibly to resolving emergencies should be encouraged. the aim of the solidarity fund is to enable the eu to respond to emergencies caused by major natural disasters and to show solidarity with the regions of europe affected by a disaster. the fund may provide financial assistance to member states and countries at the stage of negotiations for accession to the union in the event of a 'major natural disaster', that is to say, if the total direct damage caused by the disaster exceeds eur 3 billion in 2011 prices or 0,6% of the gni of the country concerned, whichever is the lower. we must be aware that the solidarity fund is not just a form of eu financial assistance, but also an important means of conveying a clear political message of solidarity, providing much-needed support to the affected citizens.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was set up to enable the union to respond to emergency situations caused by major natural disasters and to express european solidarity to disaster-stricken regions within europe. the fund can provide financial aid to member states and countries involved in accession negotiations in the event of a ‘major natural disaster’, i.e. where total direct damage caused by the disaster exceeds eur 3 billion in 2011 prices or 0.6% of the country’s gni, whichever is the lower. it can also be mobilised in the event of a regional disaster. the current proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council is not linked to a specific disaster. instead, it aims at entering into the general budget of the union for 2016 the amount of eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations for the payment of advances in a timely and efficient way in the event of a disaster occurring next year. the eusf is not simply another form of eu financial support, but that it also contributes to sending a clear political message of solidarity, while providing much-needed assistance to affected citizens. a prompt response capacity, including through the payment of an advance, will help the union achieve these objectives.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was set up to enable the union to respond to emergency situations caused by major natural disasters and to express european solidarity to disaster-stricken regions within europe. i have voted for this report that aims at entering into the general budget of the union for 2016 the amount of eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations for the payment of advances in a timely and efficient way in the event of a disaster occurring next year.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision of the european parliament and of the council regarding mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund to provide for payment of advances in the 2016 budget. i support this newly-introduced provision, as it ensures the timely availability of budgetary resources and allows for speedier disbursement of assistance to affected countries through the payment of an advance before the final award decision has been taken, thus enhancing the fund’s effectiveness.
in writing. ‒ the key priorities for the 2016 budget are to provide support for more jobs, growth and investment. so in proposing to create the european fund for strategic investments, the commission proposed to maximise the use of the european union budget to meet existing needs. the eu budget aims to legitimize the eu's actions and position it as a stronger global actor in the new migration policy. given the disparities between regions, but also between member states, the eu is showing its solidarity and willingness to reduce the gaps through the funds allocated. i voted in favour of the report on the 2016 budgetary procedure: a joint project, given the huge needs the eu has at the moment in all sectors, needs that can only be addressed through a well-conceived budgetary framework geared to specific priorities.
in writing. ‒ supporting eu farmers, improving infrastructure or helping countries struggling with the flow of syrian refugees: all eu operations have a financial aspect - so their funding must be budgeted. however, the budget figures approved by parliament usually differ from those agreed by governments in the council, so i think the two institutions need to look for a common denominator.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the many positive aspects in the agreement with the council on budget, such as the provisions for erasmus, cosme and horizon 2020 programmes, the youth guarantee, which is essential to fight youth unemployment and the increase in funding for development policies which is fundamental for the migration agenda. in particular, the prolongation of the youth unemployment initiative shows that we are committed to reducing youth unemployment, which remains a high and shared political priority. we have to make the best possible use of budgetary resources available to tackle this issue.
in writing. ‒ the overall level of commitment appropriations in the 2016 budget is set at eur 155 004.2 million and the overall level of payment appropriations in the 2016 budget is set at eur 143 885.3 million. i have voted for this report that will definitively adopt the european union’s general budget for the financial year 2016 and arrange for its publication in the official journal of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the negotiated deal on the eu budget for 2016 sets the commitment appropriations at eur 155 billion and payment appropriations to eur 143.88 billion. the joint text includes elements that our parliament fought for: additional allocations for horizon 2020 (+eur 31.82 million in commitments), the cosme programme (+eur 14.28 million) and erasmus+ (+eur 6.62 million). this is on top of the additional eur 303 million for horizon 2020 and the connecting europe facility already secured by parliament earlier in 2015, during negotiations on the efsi. my only concern regards the youth unemployment initiative. while i welcome the commission’s proposals on the continuation of the youth employment initiative until 2020, i regret the fact that no new commitments could have been found for the youth employment initiative. with 4.6 million young people unemployed in the eu, i believe that more investments in reducing the number of young people unemployed are needed to guarantee an adequate response and remedy to the problem. to conclude, i believe the conciliation text presents a good compromise that will help europe deal with some of its most immediate challenges, therefore i voted in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint text regarding the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016. the joint text touches important areas where the eu needs to strengthen its involvement, such as: full mobilisation of the eu flexibility instrument in 2016 for immediate budgetary measures under the european agenda on migration; additional allocation to the horizon 2020 programme; further support for farmers (especially in the milk sector); statement for the continuation of youth employment initiative, following the evaluation in 2016.
in writing. ‒ the use of bis (2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (dehp) may lead to undesirable effects with respect to the endocrine system of at least one animal species. this substance is of major concern because the serious effects lead to problems of human health. given the unfavourable effects on both animals and humans, i believe that urgent action is needed to unlock this situation. financial interests cannot be the only ones pursuing it, given that while the committee for risk assessment (cer) has recognised the endocrine-disrupting effects of dehp, the committee for socio-economic analysis (case) considers that the economic benefits of using this substance outweigh the risks to human health. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that we have a responsibility to the european public to protect our citizens and the environment from hazards such as hazardous chemicals.
in writing. ‒ given that bis (2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (dehp) is a known toxic substance, classified by reach as a toxic substance of very high concern, affecting scientifically proven reproduction and the endocrine system in the environment. the applicants did not fulfil the conditions for authorisation as they did not demonstrate that all risks in the procedures applied are adequately controllable. they also failed to demonstrate that the socioeconomic benefits of processing this substance would outweigh the risks of dehp and that there are no suitable alternatives. there are much safer alternatives on the european market in terms of substances, materials, processes and technologies used. what i think we need to take seriously is innovation and the principles of the circular economy. i therefore supported the objection to the authorisation of bis ((2-ethylhexyl) phthalate.
in writing. ‒ dehp is as a substance of very high concern and, already in 2000, it was included in annex 1 setting out the candidate list of 553 substances under category i of chemicals that showed evidence of endocrine disrupting activity in at least one species using intact animals. on 12 december 2014, the member state committee (msc) unanimously agreed to the identification of dehp as a substance giving rise to an equivalent level of concern due to its endocrine disrupting properties in the environment(6); the msc unanimously acknowledged that, in the case of dehp, there is scientific evidence on endocrine disrupting activity and on the causal link between this activity and adverse effects on human health. i therefore supported the call on the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision and to submit a new draft rejecting the applications for authorisation for the formulation of recycled soft pvc containing dehp.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that will grant authorisation based on several legal conditions of use for the following substance: bis(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (dehp).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution by the environment committee and was glad to see that it had the overwhelming support of my colleagues. there are very real concerns about the health implications of dehp. identified as toxic to reproduction and an endocrine disrupter affecting the environment, it is very worrying that the commission granted a broad authorisation for a substance associated with birth defects and abnormalities. the aim of the reach regulation is to ensure a high level of protection of human health and the environment, yet the widespread use of this substance would likely pose a threat to both. there is no justification for this authorisation, especially considering that safe alternatives are available.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament resolution on the draft decision on the authorisation of phthalate aims, on the one hand, to underline the economic and social need to accept the recycling of these plastics, which are clearly proven to be toxic, and, on the other hand, to contribute to protecting the health of citizens who are severely affected by dehp phthalates. we have, at this stage, enough data on the cumulative effect of these substances, as phthalates are already present in our tissues at dangerous levels, affecting the endocrine system and fertility. the most exposed categories are pregnant women and children. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the european commission should come back with a new proposal in the next period to drastically limit the recycling of lightweight pvc containing dehp phthalates and products made from materials containing this substance which is harmful to the human body.
in writing. ‒ the report of parliament's special committee on tax arrangements and the commission's investigations revealed that activities aimed at reducing the overall tax liabilities of certain companies is a common practice at member state level. i would point out that the restructuring of national budgets following the economic crisis has significantly reduced the staff of tax administrations and has encouraged tax evasion and avoidance. the increasing gap between the statutory and the effective tax rates for multinational companies also confirms that the derogations granted by member states from the tax regime contribute to the increase of the budget deficit in the long term. unfortunately, the lack of convergence of eu tax systems encourages preferential national regimes and creates legislative frameworks that are conducive to abuse. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that a coordinated tax policy between member states can ensure a level playing field for firms in the internal market.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the final report of the special committee on tax rulings that, after 10 months of investigations on tax rulings and other harmful practices, many hearings and committee delegations, presents the taxe committee findings and recommendations. in particular, i welcome the call on the commission to speed up the presentation of legislative modifications for the prompt establishment of a compulsory eu-wide common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb) with a short and concrete deadline in order to introduce the ‘consolidation’ element. i support mandatory and public country-by-country reporting, automatic and mandatory exchange of information regarding all tax rulings that are still valid, registered in a central directory to which the commission has full access; and a common european list of tax havens, ‘independently of their location’ based on comprehensive, transparent, robust, objectively verifiable and commonly accepted indicators. finally, we have a new agenda for tax justice, which will allow major improvements in tax coordination and cooperation in the eu to fight aggressive tax planning.
in writing. ‒ the negative effects of tax evasion by multinational companies are borne by all other taxpayers, including small and medium-sized enterprises. a comprehensive legal framework for fair corporate taxation in europe should therefore be established. in the special committee report we make clear what we expect from the member states and the european commission: a comprehensive package against aggressive tax planning. all companies have to pay taxes in the countries where they make their profits. for many years, multinational companies have reduced their taxes through preferential offers in different member states. therefore, the taxes that support our health, education and infrastructure services have been paid almost exclusively by smes and citizens. this situation has become unbearable, especially in periods of severe budget cuts in social assistance expenditure.
in writing. ‒ the special committee on tax rulings by member states was set up in february 2015 to shed light on all member states’ tax rulings and examine ways to end unfair tax practices and combat tax evasion in the european union. i have voted for this report that seeks transparency on tax rulings.
in writing. ‒ european integration is a complex process in full swing. a key component of this, in addition to the political and monetary component, is the fiscal dimension. the member states' charging systems are still too different to have a coherent system at union level. this creates gaps in development and living standards between member states. for these reasons, there is a need for greater harmonisation of tax policies at european level. this process is not possible without monitoring in each member state by independent and impartial actors whose work must not be affected by the interests of the state actors concerned. following the monitoring, recommendations will be issued with a view to establishing a minimum and a maximum level of taxation at eu level. at the same time, a comprehensive database of 'tax havens' will be established and the fight against intra-community tax evasion will be regulated more effectively. states or commercial operators that fail to comply with these regulations will have to bear the consequences and pay the penalties set by the european institutions. this will generate new revenue for the union which can be used for the development of the member states.
in writing. ‒ aggressive tax planning practices and the erosion of the tax base for businesses have been known and analysed internationally for several decades. the commission notes that the contested tax ruling does not provide for any specific tax treatment of luxopco in the light of the tax rulings of luxscs and luxopco, as the ruling also provides for a tax treatment of luxopco in the light of the ruling of luxscs. these tax behaviours lead to the separation of where value is created and where profit is taxed. moreover, it is not limited to tax rulings but covers a wide range of unfair tax practices, applied by national tax administrations in the european union but also outside it. i voted in favour of this resolution because public monitoring is a practice that is part of the exercise of democratic control, and these practices can persist as long as they remain undisclosed.
mr president, the first and most obvious reaction to the deadly attacks in paris was again to point to the glaring holes in our security systems. indeed we do need stronger borders, better information systems, more controlled access to the terrorist data and more efficient information exchange in order to protect civilian lives. just as important, however, is for us to come to terms with the fact that these killings were perpetrated by european citizens. if we want to make the world a safer place, we must start by understanding what drives thousands of european citizens to embrace violent extremism and indiscriminately take lives at home and abroad. although necessary, repressive measures are not sufficient to tackle extremism. as has been pointed out by the head of one of the more successful anti-radicalisation initiatives in vilvoorde in belgium, if we want to prevent more people from falling into the hands of terrorist organisations, we must attempt to strengthen those bonds with family and the wider community that the recruiters have tried to break.
in writing. ‒ recent terrorist attacks have once again confirmed that investment in preventive rather than reactive measures is more necessary. as regards the involvement of european citizens in radical organisations and terrorist attacks, urgent action is needed to bring this growing phenomenon under control. given that up to now some 5 000 european citizens have joined terrorist organisations and other military formations, we cannot remain indifferent to the new realities. we need to act and prevent this number from rising by means of concrete and democratic action, and in this regard european cooperation is essential for the efficient and effective exchange of information between the competent institutions. efficient coordination of internal and external policies is also needed to ensure that the significant terrorist threat in the eu is removed. i voted in favour of the report on the prevention of radicalisation and recruitment of european citizens by terrorist organisations because we need now, more than ever, as many tools as possible to provide a solution to mitigate a phenomenon that is continuing to accelerate and is becoming considerable.
in writing. ‒ the presence of terrorism and the fight against it has a long history in europe, dating back to its very emergence on a global scale. of course, islam is not the only religion that is abused to legitimize terrorist acts, and terrorism is not solely religiously motivated. given the frequency of attacks in europe over the past year and the departure of european citizens to syria, the phenomenon of increasing radicalisation in the eu needs to be tackled with a number of preventive measures. reactive measures are only necessary in emergency situations, and with regard to the radicalisation phenomenon in the eu, i believe that the most effective way of acting is to combat it by taking preventive measures. i support this report because concerted european action is needed to combat extremism, radicalisation and terrorist recruitment in prisons and on the internet, to strengthen the exchange of information on radicalisation with terrorist trends in europe, but above all to prevent radicalisation through education and social inclusion.
in writing. ‒ member states have core competence in combatting the radicalisation of eu citizens. however, a concerted eu approach is needed to be effective. law enforcement measures are essential but no longer sufficient; a complementary strategy based on prevention must also be adopted.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report is to make recommendations on an eu strategy to prevent the radicalisation of european citizens. law enforcement is essential, but it's no longer enough. a complementary strategy based on prevention should also be adopted.
in writing. ‒ the terrorist attacks at the start of 2015 highlighted the urgency with which the european union needed to take action on combating terrorism and preventing the radicalisation of its citizens. i have voted for this report that will make recommendations on an eu strategy to prevent the radicalisation and recruitment of eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i support the rapporteur's view that without a coordinated and integrated approach to the causes of so many people choosing the path of radicalisation and terrorism, including in the member states, we will not be able to combat the effects of this phenomenon. it is essential that states work together to find the best strategies and exchange good practices and effective measures that can be applied in other states' territories. education and combating discrimination through social inclusion, especially among young people, are also cornerstones in any strategy to combat radicalisation, hatred and terrorism and must be taken very seriously.
in writing. ‒ terrorism is one of the most pervasive negative phenomena of our times. beyond the root causes of its production, it is likely that this phenomenon will be further exacerbated in the coming period, under the influence of the destructive activities openly promoted by the so-called 'islamic state'. although the main responsibilities for combating terrorism lie with the member states, a coherent strategy within the union is needed to be able to halt the rise of this phenomenon. one area of action is the prevention of violent extremism and terrorist radicalisation in prisons. another direction is the prevention of terrorist-type radicalisation in the virtual environment, which has an important influence in the direction of terrorist militant mobilisation. the main tools for preventing radicalisation in society are the education system and social inclusion, which must be supported at european level. at the same time, however, member states need to improve the exchange of information on terrorist radicalisation on the continent and strengthen instruments to deter terrorism, such as border control, including among their own citizens. the actions of the member states must also aim at dismantling terrorist cells, both within and in the eu's neighbourhood. for these reasons, it is necessary to adopt this document without delay.
in writing. ‒ radicalisation is a concept used to describe the phenomenon whereby certain individuals embrace intolerant opinions, views and ideas that could lead to violent extremism. in recent years, more than 5 000 european citizens have joined terrorist organisations and other military formations, such as the islamic state and others outside the european union, particularly in the middle east and north africa region, and this phenomenon is gaining considerable scale. the recent terrorist attacks in france, belgium and copenhagen highlight the security threat posed by the presence of these radicalised individuals, who are often eu citizens. a number of tools already exist in europe to address the radicalisation of european citizens, and in this context the eu and its member states should make full use of these tools and seek to strengthen them, in order to respond to the current challenges to the security of states. to this end, there is a need for cooperation between member states in sensitive areas such as the exchange of classified information, as well as the establishment of common action to prevent the radicalisation and recruitment of european citizens by terrorist organisations. the report highlights all these aspects and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ recent events in the territory of some eu member states show that the european union must act urgently in the field of combating terrorism and preventing the radicalisation of european citizens. radicalisation is a complex phenomenon that is based on a number of global, sociological and political factors. at present, more than 5 000 european citizens are considered foreign fighters, radicalised people who have joined terrorist organisations. when we talk about radicalization, we need to have a big picture of the factors that have contributed to radicalization. it is a huge challenge to understand why these citizens have chosen this path as the causes of radicalisation can be equally socio-economic, ideological, personal and psychological and for this reason radicalisation must be understood in the context of the situation of each individual concerned. the european parliament's report addresses the issue of radicalisation in detail, calling, inter alia, for an action plan to be drawn up for the implementation and evaluation of the eu strategy to combat radicalisation and recruitment for terrorist purposes. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on prevention of radicalisation and recruitment of european citizens by terrorist organisations. the terrorist attacks in europe in 2015 highlighted the urgency with which the european union needs to take action on combating terrorism and preventing the radicalisation of its citizens. i agree that the eu and the member states should become more involved in preventing radicalisation, and of course a concerted eu approach is needed to be effective in combating the threat posed by radicalised eu citizens who may move freely around the european union. the european union has to adopt a new strategy based more on prevention. the aim of the report is to make recommendations on an eu strategy to prevent the radicalisation and recruitment of eu citizens.
mr president, raising labour standards and the level of occupational health and safety is not just in the interest of workers but also in the interest of companies’ productivity and competitiveness, the sustainability of social security systems and of society at large. we need clear and efficient rules in the field of health and safety at work and rigorous application regardless of the size of employers. this does not preclude however, taking into account the specific situation and needs of micro and small enterprises and the provision of special assistance to them in the implantation of health and safety legislation. i also strongly agree with the call from the report that we should step up our measures against undeclared work, as it is undeclared workers that are most exposed to work-related accidents.
in writing. ‒ based on one of the european union's objectives that all workers have the right to the highest level of protection of health and safety at work, we need to focus our attention on the need to promote a safe and healthy working environment for workers throughout the entire working life cycle. i believe that more investment is needed in risk prevention policies and in promoting, developing and supporting a culture of prevention in relation to health and safety at work. this prevention, together with increased attention to the cumulative effects of occupational risks, creates added value for workers and for society as a whole. given that risks to workers' health and safety are largely similar across the union, the eu has a role to play in helping member states to tackle risks effectively and to ensure a level playing field across the eu. i voted in favour of the report on the eu strategic framework on health and safety at work 2014-2020 because this framework is a concrete means of providing workers with safer working conditions.
in writing. ‒ i believe that ensuring a level playing field throughout the eu and eliminating unfair competition and social dumping is crucial and i believe that labour inspectorates play a key role in ensuring that workers' rights to a safe and healthy working environment are respected and in providing advice and guidance to employers, especially smes and micro-enterprises. i also believe that member states should be encouraged to comply with the ilo standards and guidelines on labour inspection, to ensure sufficient staff and resources in labour inspectorates and to improve training for labour inspectors, as recommended by the european economic and social committee.
in writing. ‒ considering that every year more than 4 000 workers die due to accidents at work and the number of fatal work-related diseases amounts to more than 150 000 on an annual basis, an eu strategic framework on health and safety at work is very much needed. the framework will allow the identification of many important challenges facing european employees and employers, but it still lacks, however, an ambitious agenda for concrete legislative proposals to improve the situation of workers with regard to existing and new and emerging risks as well as work-related diseases. i welcome the call for the commission to revise directive 2004/37/ec, adding more binding exposure limit values on the basis of scientific evidence; the call for a proposal for a comprehensive legal instrument on musculoskeletal disorders; the call for the development and implementation of a programme for systematic monitoring, managing and support for workers affected by psychological risks. the financial and economic crisis should not be used as an excuse to undermine occupational risk prevention policies as this approach is neither acceptable nor effective. nor should alleged administrative simplifications lead to lower health and safety standards for workers.
in writing. ‒ the financial crisis should not be used as an excuse to undermine workplace risk prevention policies. the commission and the member states should improve the collection of reliable data on occupational diseases, exposures and risks across all sectors. the commission must put forward concrete legislative proposals on health and safety at work and thus transform its 'strategic framework' into a real strategy.
in writing. ‒ every year more than 4 000 workers die due to accidents at work and the number of fatal work-related diseases amounts to more than 150 000 every single year. good health is a fundamental right in europe and even though considerable progress has been made in the area of occupational health and safety throughout the years, major risks to workers’ health and safety continue to exist. i voted for this report that will improve the health and safety situation of workers and ensure a level playing field for businesses.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it gives a very accurate analysis of the health and safety needs at work in the eu. the commission's strategy in this area, coordinated with national strategies, should ensure a high standard of health and safety at work for european citizens. it is a right that citizens have, but also an obligation on the part of employers, whether private or public, to ensure this standard. unfortunately, in the context of the economic crisis, many companies, but also the public sector, have had drastic cost reductions and layoffs. this has often led to situations where the workload has become larger and in some cases more dangerous for the remaining employees, which has endangered and endangers both the safety and health of people. the commission and the member states must work together to find a common approach to this problem and i am referring in particular to the implementation of effective strategies to ensure a standard level of occupational safety and health, with clear sanctions for those who do not comply with this standard.
in writing. the incidence of accidents at work and deaths from occupational diseases has reached alarming levels. for these reasons, more effective regulation of safety and health risks at work is needed. regulations should aim at limiting exposure to carcinogens and mutagens, avoiding the development of locomotor deficiencies and psychological risks from stress and avoiding exposure to asbestos. at the same time, the involvement of the social partners and social dialogue at all levels is required to achieve adequate protection of workers' safety and health, regardless of the size of the employer, the type of activity, the member state or the type of contract. the financial and economic crisis and the administrative simplifications (refit) should not be used as an excuse to lower safety and health standards for workers. a separate chapter is devoted to the challenges and risks facing women in the workplace. they must be vigorously combated, as must the incidence of violence against women in the workplace. the implementation of high european standards of worker protection can help to improve the situation internationally by including these requirements in all eu trade agreements with third parties. for these reasons, i support this laudable initiative.
in writing. ‒ the economic crisis has led to increased job insecurity and reduced earnings for businesses, especially smes, and this should not lead to a loss of focus on the importance of health and safety at work. improving occupational health and safety across europe can contribute to economic recovery and to achieving the europe 2020 targets of reaching an employment rate of 75% among the population aged 20-64. health and safety at work is a fundamental interest of society and an investment that has a positive effect on the productivity and competitiveness of enterprises and also improves the sustainability of social security systems. cancer is the leading cause of mortality from working conditions, followed by cardiovascular and respiratory diseases, while occupational accidents account for a small proportion of deaths. improvements in conditions and strong legislation on health and safety at work are therefore needed to prevent such situations. i therefore voted in favour of the report on the eu strategic framework on health and safety at work 2014-2020.
in writing. ‒ a healthy, functional society needs healthy people, and a healthy work environment will improve employee productivity. the promotion of health and safety at work and the protection of workers at work are essential to improving working conditions and, consequently, to protecting workers' health. the european parliament's report draws attention to this important issue and calls on the european commission to review legislation on health at work. improving the efficiency and effectiveness of the legislative framework in this area is essential for the protection of workers. the report also makes a number of recommendations on improving legislation on occupational diseases and stresses the importance of protecting workers from exposure to carcinogens, mutagens and toxic substances for reproduction. the report also draws attention to the need for increased exchange of information and good practice between member states and the importance of supplementing existing resources to increase the efficiency of labour inspectorates. working conditions must be in accordance with the legislation in force, this being not only the responsibility of law enforcement bodies but also of employers and employees. i voted in favour of this report.
mr president, i would first of all like to welcome the agreement reached in valletta between the european union and its african partners, because only through a common approach will we be able to deal with the greatest refugee crisis in our history. it is of course necessary, as other members have already pointed out, that the decisions taken in malta be followed up by concrete action and, in particular, by sufficient financial contributions from the member states, otherwise the objectives of valletta will remain a dead letter. of the five priority areas for action, two seem to me to be crucial. first, the need to tackle the root causes of this crisis, because we can no longer be satisfied with temporary solutions. the union must play a more active role in resolving and, above all, preventing conflicts in its neighbourhood. in this context, a political solution to the syrian conflict is of paramount importance. the second priority area of action is the fight against illegal immigration and trafficking of all kinds. the absence of political agreement on a government of national unity in libya raises questions about our ability to combat this illegal immigration in the mediterranean effectively and sustainably. is it not time to consider other options to contain the migrant crisis in the absence of a political agreement in libya? supporting mediation efforts between the various tribes in southern libya could be a path to explore.
mr president, i would like to start by expressing my sympathy and my condolences for the workers who lost their lives in the jade mine on monday. these elections represent a milestone in the recent history of myanmar and its democratic transition. we are, of course, happy with the result and the electoral process, which was completed smoothly. but what deserves even more emphasis is the fact that the people clearly expressed their desire and support for democracy. our official results show that people frequently supported a symbol of the peaceful fight for democracy, namely the nobel peace prize winner and sakharov prize winner aung san suu kyi. but let us not be under any under any illusions: these elections are a good starting point, but only a starting point in what remains a long transition. as we know, the winner will not be able to elect the president. 25% of the seats are in military hands, as are some key ministerial posts. what is essential now is the result, which must be respected by all and followed by national reconciliation. i am encouraged by the fact that the president and the military acknowledge the result. but now it will be necessary to work together for reforms. europe should stand alongside myanmar’s fight.
in writing.– the most important question following the resounding victory of the national league for democracy party (nld) in the recent elections in myanmar is what ms suu kyi’s plans are for ending one of the world’s longest-running civil wars and for transforming the country into a peaceful federal union by honouring the key promises from the panglong agreement. although it might be speculated that the votes cast for the nld in multi-ethnic minority states were the result of a tactical decision to weaken the former ruling party, the multi-ethnic national mandate of the new president cannot be denied. now it remains to be seen what ms suu kyi will do with this mandate and the hopes of ethnic minorities making up around one third of the country. we are also eagerly awaiting the steps she will take to put an end to the terrible persecution of the rohingya minority, the members of which were not allowed to take part in the elections. also, i do hope that in her democratisation efforts ms suu kyi will find a reliable and strong partner in the european union.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the review of the european neighbourhood policy was presented last week. its aim is that of revitalising and making more effective relations with the eu’s neighbours. in this context, we should give a new boost also to our eastern partnership or, at least, based on a differentiated approach, to the countries showing their readiness for developing relations and cooperation with the eu. georgia is today a frontrunner from this point of view, and we need to bear in mind its importance for us and the need to stand by a country and people who have shown a clear pro-european attitude. georgia is a very important partner for the eu in the black sea region and, i will also underline, a faithful one in the current dramatic context. after the signature of the association agreement, georgia showed its commitment by making significant progress in the reforms, including in the framework of the visa liberalisation action plan. i hope that the next progress report will confirm all the efforts made by georgia and that georgian citizens can be rewarded with the free visa regime. having said that, i would also like to underline that we cannot take georgia’s stability for granted; we need europe to provide all necessary assistance for the reform process, but also to support and reaffirm georgia’s right for its independence, territorial integrity and sovereignty, keeping in mind the destabilisation process started by russia in 2008 and recently continued with the signature of the so-called treaties with the breakaway regions of abkhazia and ossetia. at the same time, let us be clear, georgia itself needs to ensure its internal stability, with a fair political environment, cross-party political support for key reforms and also a fair atmosphere in the electoral campaign. finally, my plea to the epp group is: please stop playing politically the case of georgia, because in this way we cannot help georgia but, on the contrary, only its enemies.
on behalf of the s&d group.– mr president, one year ago the european parliament was meeting to ratify the association agreement. in doing so, this house acknowledged the reform efforts and ambitions of the moldovan authorities. a lot of progress had been made, and the ratification was a strong sign of recognition. moldova was the uncontested front runner of the eastern partnership, our favourite success story at that time. dear colleagues, if we are meeting today in this chamber to talk about moldova, it is not to celebrate one year on from, or the first anniversary of, the ratification. to put it quite bluntly, there is nothing to celebrate. in these past 12 months i have met four different prime ministers. the fifth is on the way. the co-chair of our parliamentary association committee, a former prime minister, has been arrested on corruption charges; a banking scandal involving all three major banking institutions has made usd 1 billion vanish – this is almost 50% of moldova’s gdp – and now, more than ever, the country and its people need the political class to offer resolute action and strong vision. parties are not even able to propose a new executive. the situation in moldova is grave – so critical that the immediate temptation is to get angry because the process is no longer delivering. it is just disappointing us. the wonderland has turned into the dark side, but we should and will resist that temptation for the sake of moldovan citizens. they deserve better; they deserve our engagement, our encouragement, and we will be at their side more than ever before. moldova’s political class has simply failed its citizens, and we are very worried. the political process has no predictability. the political situation is in a perpetual state of instability, a chronic state of crisis. this means only one thing: the needs of the population are not being addressed, reforms are not being implemented and citizens are paying the bill. moldova needs political leaders to take responsibility. moldova needs transparent institutions. put quite simply: moldova needs a political class which is able to restore citizens’ trust. a new executive confirming the ambitions of the association agreement and effectively implementing the reforms needed could finally deliver, and that means the rule of law, an independent and efficient judiciary, a bold fight against corruption and a thorough investigation into banking fraud, bringing those responsible to justice. this is the last chance for the outgoing governing coalition. once again: this is the last chance for the outgoing governing coalition. the deadline has passed, and there is no alternative to continuing on the path of the current reform agenda. we can see it, and moldovan citizens can feel it. it is time for political leaders to hear it.
mr president, several colleagues have referred to the fact that in a single year moldova has transformed itself from the model pupil of the eastern partnership into a country that is no longer predictable at all, where chaos reigns - as someone said earlier. how did it get here? i think there are three important factors that have changed that. it's russia first. russia's influence on opinion is greater today than it was a year ago. secondly, it's about the oligarchs who control the parties today to a greater extent than they did a year ago. and thirdly, it's about corruption that has weakened institutions to a greater extent than it was before the november elections. we are facing the failure of a pro-european coalition that was validated at the polls and for a year, instead of finding resources to restart the machine, produced solutions that lasted only a moment and deepened the political crisis. i think we have a responsibility and elmar brok called the various political families to responsibility. i would say we shouldn't ask that of the communists. i think the communist family in parliament should stay out, as well as all the friends of russia who are also in the european parliament, supporters of a catastrophic scenario for moldova. so i ask them to refrain, not to get into this game. secondly, i think we have to respond to the demands made in chisinau at this moment, to provide european mediation for the building of a new coalition. we have embarked on a journey, we have assumed a responsibility, we have offered a perspective for moldova and other countries, including through the revised neighbourhood policy. i think we have to get involved, moderating, making possible an alternative path to what the communists want, to what the dodon socialists want, to what moscow wants in the republic of moldova.
mr president, allow me to speak in the official language of the republic of moldova, the romanian language. doamnelor și domnilor, prin istorie, prin tradiții, prin cultură, prin limbă, prin legături umane, prin poziția ei geografică, republica moldova face parte din sud-estul european, nu din spațiul euro-asiatic. da, sigur, republica moldova are acum probleme, dar nu cred că uniunea europeană își permite să lase republica moldova într-o zonă de incertitudine, într-o zonă de teamă alături de ucraina. după cum știți, republica moldova are un conflict înghețat din 1991. ucraina îl are mai de curând în partea de est cât și în sud cu crimeea. este nevoie să sprijinim acum mai mult ca oricând republica moldova ca să aibă un guvern viabil, un guvern care să aplice programele uniunii europene în așa fel încât cetățenii republicii moldova să beneficieze de acest acord de asociere al uniunii europene, să vadă că viitorul lor este alături de uniunea europeană, de statele membre ale uniunii europene, de lumea europeană. în același timp trebuie spus foarte clar că sunt interese estice de destabilizare a republicii moldova și trebuie să contracarăm acest lucru, trebuie să sprijinim un guvern viabil la chișinău, trebuie să sprijinim organizațiile societății civile pro-europene de la chișinău din republica moldova. republica moldova trebuie să vină alături de uniunea europeană, alături de românia și celelalte state. viitorul ei este european.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, whenever i am in moldova, people always ask me the same question: does moldova still have a chance? i believe that it is our duty, as representatives of the european institutions, to give the republic of moldova a european perspective, and to the citizens of the republic of moldova a hope, to show them that the republic of moldova still has a chance. if we don't provide a perspective, then vladimir putin will and it won't be good. it will not be good for the republic of moldova, but it will not be good for the european union either. the reality is that the republic of moldova benefits greatly from association and rapprochement with the european union. the republic of moldova is the non-eu state that receives the most eu funds per capita. our duty is to explain to the citizens of the republic of moldova the benefits of coming closer to the european union and not to let them fall prey to the propaganda from the east that says that there are no concrete benefits for the people from coming closer to europe. it must be said very clearly that in 2014, when the russian federation imposed an embargo on moldovan products, the european union reacted by raising the quotas on import of fruit and completely eliminating the quotas on import of wine. it has ensured the existence of agricultural entrepreneurs, of farmers. we must tell the citizens of the republic of moldova very clearly who is their friend and who is their enemy. we must make it very clear that the european union wants a strong, independent republic of moldova on its own feet.
mr president, as linda mcavan pointed out, education is a fundamental human right and the right of every child. it is vital in order to be able to enjoy in full all other social, economic, cultural and political rights. it is a catalyst for development, which improves the prospects of other interventions in the areas of health, sanitation, disaster risk reduction, job creation, poverty reduction and economic development. efforts in this direction will ensure that the principle of policy coherence is respected. i therefore absolutely agree on the need to ensure more integrated, systematic and effective responses to education needs in emergencies, and i strongly believe that the european union must work with partner countries, other donors, the private sector and civil society to improve educational opportunities for children and young people in conflict situations. education has to be considered as an integral part of the humanitarian response. all actors must increase their commitment to education by mobilising the education cluster in the early stages of an emergency and by ensuring that sufficient funds are dedicated to it.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure. madam president, colleague, you have spoken about simplification and it is something that everyone complains about in all countries, including the administration, not just private companies. i ask you: do you think there is a direct link between the complexity of writing the programmes and the mistakes that are made and the corruption that occurs in the attraction of european funds? do you think there's a direct connection and what should be done?
madam president, madam vice-president of the commission, you have spoken of a performance-based budget. i totally agree. the epp group will draw up a position paper on this in the coming weeks. mr president, you mentioned a new results-oriented approach. unfortunately, when i read the court of auditors' reports, at least those for joint ventures, i did not notice this at all. it does not talk about results, it does not talk, for example, about the evaluation of the contribution in kind, it even mentions audit reports that do not provide any clarification as regards errors. there is no mention of intellectual property rights in relation to projects that are carried out with public money. even more, if we compare it to the 2013 reports, 10% is different, the rest of the text is identical. so, please would that what you said apply in practice for future reports.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, that is very kind of you. let me start by expressing the regrets of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, federica mogherini, for not being able to take part in the debate. i am happy to stand up on her behalf. after the events in kunduz in early october, we have now had to witness the cruel beheading of a group of shia muslims belonging to the hazara community in the southern province of zabul by anti-government elements. the eu has firmly condemned this attack, as well as other recent brutal and barbaric acts of violence in afghanistan. we have extended our sincere condolences to the families of the victims, including women and children who were abducted last month and executed between 6 and 8 november. these new atrocities coincide with a growing number of violent clashes between insurgent groups, whether different taliban-affiliated groups or those linked to daesh. so far no group has claimed responsibility for the beheading of the seven people. the perpetrators must be found and held accountable for their crimes. once again, we call on all parties to the armed conflict, including all anti—government elements, to uphold international law. the continued targeting of hazaras risks fuelling ethnic tensions within afghanistan. as many of today’s speakers mentioned, on 11 november there was a mass demonstration in kabul, with reportedly more than 20 000 men and women grieving the brutal loss of life and protesting about what happened in zabul. the demonstrators were mainly hazaras, but they also included other ethnic groups – pashtuns, tajiks, uzbeks and others. we should keep in mind that the ever—present security threat in afghanistan remains one of the main contributors to increased migration, both to neighbouring countries and to the eu. the deteriorating security situation, with a record level of terrorist attacks and the civilian casualties stemming from them, plus a deteriorating economic situation and limited employment opportunities for educated young people: these are the origin of migratory pressures, and we in europe are directly affected. we need to act. we have our 2014-2016 eu strategy for afghanistan. it flags, as a first objective, the promotion of peace, security and regional stability, and it is in this perspective that the eu has agreed to co-host next year’s ministerial conference on afghanistan, in october 2016. this conference in brussels will further foster the stabilisation process in afghanistan, where strong afghan leadership, combined with continued international solidarity, is needed to send a signal of renewed hope, confidence and positive change. we have a challenging security situation, grave human rights violations, a fragile political situation and a very dire economic situation. they all cause further risks of destabilisation and the continued flow of afghan refugees and migrants – people fleeing because of that loss of hope. it is all the more urgent that the government of afghanistan and all partners in the region engage credibly to end the conflict and ensure a stable environment with the support of the international community. an afghan-led and afghan—owned peace process remains the prerequisite to any sustainable solution. on this path, the eu stands firm in its commitments to afghanistan and to its people.
in writing.– i call for implementation of the provisions of the national action plan to end torture by initiating investigations and prosecutions based on the unama findings, which are extremely important. violence and human rights violations have led to widespread corruption and death, how long will it take for us to respond to the global atrocities and stop the bloodshed? seven members of the shia hazara ethnic group, including three women and a child, were found with their throats cut on sunday in an incident police blamed on islamic state militants. the fighting in one of the taliban’s traditional southern strongholds, underlines the risk of fragmentation facing the islamist movement. i agree that we must work with the nato-led international security assistance force (isaf) in order to assist and aid the afghan national security forces. (asnf) these are the forces that have the greatest competences when it comes to fighting isis and other militants, since they have first-hand fighting experience against them.
although there has been hope in recent times that the changes in cambodian political life will bear fruit and that some cooperation between the two parties may be possible, the events of the past few months suggest that we have been overly optimistic about the strength of the changes. the cambodian government's actions are clearly aimed at undermining the opposition and thus the democratic competition. in these circumstances, i think we need to keep a close eye on developments in the country, especially given the fact that the european union is cambodia's largest partner in this field with a €410 million development assistance programme for the period 2014-2020. if we are serious about promoting our shared values around the world, this need must be reflected in development policy.
author. madam president, i would like to say, as mrs lambert and mr tannock have also pointed out, that we are talking about a country where freedom of expression, freedom of the media exists and anyone can see that in bangladesh. the number of newspapers and the disputes that take place in the press are proof. on the other hand, it is worrying what is happening lately, namely the death threats and attacks against journalists and bloggers. it is commendable that the government has committed to a zero tolerance policy towards these abuses. of course there's a lot to do. we must not forget, moreover, as mr tannock said, that we are talking about a country where the value of secularism is important, but which, on the other hand, is under the threat of isis which concerns us here equally. we call on the government to ensure effective protection for all journalists and bloggers who do not defend radical islamist causes.
reporters without borders says it simply and directly: without freedom of information, there are no opponents. this is probably what the bangladeshi authorities were after when they passed a law in 2014 banning anti-state speech, speech that ridicules the national ideology or that does not conform to the culture of bangladesh. therefore, i call for the release of those detained on the basis of these provisions and for convincing explanations regarding the fate of the opponents who disappeared from the opposition parties and for impartial investigations into the cases of these disappearances. the 2015 cybersecurity act and the information technology act should be amended so as not to restrict opinions and views different from those of the authorities. free thought and the word "free" cannot be hidden in prisons.
in writing. ‒ trade liberalisation is an important tool for ensuring sustainable economic growth and development, an objective on which the european union was built and which remains the main factor of cohesion between member states. however, such liberalisation needs to be accompanied by appropriate supportive policies, including measures at macro and microeconomic level, including fiscal transparency, fiscal policies and fiscal equity, administrative simplification, education and training, institutional reforms and social policies, in order to maximise and better distribute the benefits of trade reforms and effectively counterbalance any negative effects. all of these are specified in the parliament's resolution, along with the principle of special and differential treatment, the benefit of economic development of all continents and the contribution to poverty reduction. the doha round was launched with the objective of creating new trade opportunities, strengthening multilateral trade rules and addressing current trade system imbalances, with the needs and interests of developing countries, and in particular least developed countries, at the heart of the negotiations. i voted in favour of this resolution as i consider its completion essential and will therefore support the objectives it proposes.
in writing. ‒ as the reform of the common agricultural policy is the european union's contribution to the expectations of the doha round, i believe that wto member countries must proactively support efforts to create efficient and effective channels of work and to strengthen wto cooperation with other international organisations whose work has an influence on global trade negotiations, in particular the international labour organisation, the world health organisation, the un and its agencies and bodies, such as the un conference on trade and development, the food and agriculture organisation, the un environment programme, the un development programme and the un framework convention on climate change.
in writing. ‒ the doha round creates new trading opportunities, strengthens multilateral trade rules and addresses current imbalances in the trading system by placing the needs and interests of developing countries and especially of the least developed countries (ldcs) at its centre. thus, it contributes to fair and free trade at the service of the economic development of all continents and the alleviation of poverty. i support full commitment to the enduring value of multilateralism, respect for special and differential treatment in the negotiations, and the call for speedy ratification and implementation of the trade facilitation agreement. moreover, structural reform of the wto is needed in order to better guarantee an open, fair and non-discriminatory trading system based on shared rules, and which takes greater account of the role and interests of smes. finally, i believe the eu should continue to play a leading role in promoting tangible progress in the ongoing wto negotiations with a view to the full conclusion of the doha development round in the foreseeable future, as well as in facilitating the full participation of ldcs in global trade by acting as a bridge between the various positions of the wto members.
in writing. ‒ in light of the 10th wto ministerial conference which will take place in nairobi from 15 to 18 december 2015, the european parliament stresses the importance of a trade agenda based on free and fair trade and with development at the centre of the process. the principle of special and differential treatment should continue to be an integral part of the negotiations as it recognises the special needs of low-income and least developed countries, in particular in implementing trade provisions. we call for a speedy ratification of the trade facilitation agreement – the successful outcome of the 9th wto ministerial conference in 2013 – by all wto members. it was the first multilateral trade agreement concluded after the establishment of the wto in 1995 and will bring significant benefits in particular to developing country members. finally, we also welcome the progress made so far in plurilateral negotiations such as the environmental goods agreement, the information technology agreement and the trade in services agreement with a view to their multilateralisation once a critical mass of participants has been reached.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this resolution that will encourage fair and free trade through increasingly just and equitable rules, with the purpose of creating economic development across the globe.
in writing. ‒ the european union has always been a supporter of free trade worldwide. this has been manifested by support for the creation of the world trade organization (wto) and through various bilateral free trade agreements with other states or multilateral ones involving other regional structures. at the same time, however, the eu has consistently advocated addressing the current imbalances in the trading system through differential treatment of the least developed countries, in order to support their development as a result of free trade and the rejection of protectionist barriers. in this respect, the eu is in favour of a structural reform of the wto that guarantees an open, fair and non-discriminatory international trade system and that gives a privileged place to small and medium-sized enterprises. the eu also supports the importance of dispute settlement mechanisms and greater transparency in the assessment of trade policies. the european parliament, as the direct representative of european citizens, also supports the development of the parliamentary dimension of the wto, which is intended to ensure the legitimacy of the organisation. the completion of the doha development agenda at the 10th wto ministerial conference can be an important step towards achieving these generous goals. i therefore believe that the european parliament must support this ambitious eu mandate for the next wto ministerial conference.
in writing. the wto needs a substantial structural reform to ensure a fairer, more open and non-discriminatory multilateral trading system based on clear rules shared and applied by all members of the organisation. common rules should take greater account of the interests of all wto members, including developing and least developed countries. i join the majority of the ep in calling for a more balanced system that takes into account the interests of all economic operators with a focus on smes and micro-enterprises, not just the interests of large multinational corporations. it is very important to strengthen the parliamentary dimension of the wto through the future structural reform of the organisation because only then can we ensure that transparency and democratic legitimacy that is lacking today. we live in a new era of global trade that is characterised by the legitimate demand of citizens to understand and follow multilateral trade negotiations in such a way as to ensure that the interests of nations and large global corporations do not conflict with the legitimate interests of citizens in all corners of the world. involving national parliaments and the ep in the process of negotiating and implementing trade agreements is the only way to meet the legitimate demands of citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that strong trade is one in which the diversity of products and the number of members is constantly increasing, in a centralised market, where the rules applied are transparent and fair. a step towards such trade was taken by ecuador's accession to the trade agreement with colombia and peru, another decisive step in aligning with important, like-minded and rapidly developing countries in a region that is increasingly oriented towards asia and the pacific. the ecuadorian government has made numerous developments in recent years in all sectors, from protecting vulnerable social classes through strengthening human and workers' rights, to environmental rights, with ecuador hosting the highest concentration of species in the world's biodiversity. ecuador has also experienced economic growth, coupled with a reduction in poverty, and has ratified some ilo conventions.
in writing. ‒ i support the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement with colombia and peru, as it will open up markets and increase the stability and predictability of the trading environment. the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement with colombia and peru is another decisive step forward in the alliance with important, like-minded, and fast-growing countries and regions. i would like to call for a prompt implementation of the free trade agreement with ecuador, as it will contribute to reinforcing the social development model of the country, ensuring the necessary respective safeguard structures, the elimination of inequalities and the protection of workers, peasants and the environment. the agreement will provide improved access to the ecuadorian market for many key eu exports, for example in the automotive sector or for alcoholic beverages. however, the agreement will not only secure access to markets; more importantly it will also create a stable and predictable environment that will help boost and diversify trade and investment on both sides.
in writing. ‒ the accession of ecuador to the eu-colombia and peru fta represents an important step in strengthening eu trade relations with the andean community and more generally with latin america. the agreement is expected to boost trade and investment in both sides. more importantly, it will contribute to alleviating poverty and reducing inequality in ecuador. i highlight in particular the inclusion of trade and sustainable development provisions which will promote compliance and enforcement of the relevant ilo and environmental conventions in the three countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution that enhanced the protocol on ecuador’s accession to the trade agreement between the eu, colombia and peru. ecuador’s exports to the eu will benefit both parties involved as this will ensure progressive social development, as well as transparency and sustainable development of policies.
in writing. ‒ the european union supports a policy of encouraging good relations and free trade in goods with latin american countries. in this context, relations with the andean countries are a priority. the union has already concluded a multilateral free trade agreement with colombia and peru in 2012. it is intended to replace the old general preferential scheme (gsp+) agreements which expired on 1 january 2015. ecuador thus remained outside a formal free trade agreement, although in practice it benefits from temporary preferential tariffs. despite the problems with fresh banana imports from ecuador last year, the accession of ecuador to the eu-colombia-peru multilateral agreement is necessary for the development of trade between the union and ecuador and the increase of mutual investments. this does not, however, mean that the eu must renounce certain conditionalities that it is imperative that the ecuadorian side meet, such as the respect of certain social conditions for workers in this country and respect for the environment. without these clauses, which are in line with the values promoted by the eu internationally, the signing of the agreement would not have the expected effects on the development of ecuador. the current initiative is an important step in that direction.
in writing. ‒ i believe that a new animal welfare strategy is needed, as the current strategy ends at the end of this year and there are still a number of points to be implemented. for the time being, we want to see the implementation of the current strategy, but it is also essential to prepare a new strategy as the current strategy does not sufficiently reflect the importance of animal health for animal welfare and the link between animal health and public health.
in writing. ‒ i believe it is very important to draw up a new strategy for the protection and welfare of animals for the 2016-2020 period so as to ensure the continuity and clarity of operations which are essential to achieving further positive developments in eu animal welfare policy. european citizens care deeply about animal welfare and in recent years more and more people have become concerned about the ethical treatment of animals. the new strategy to improve welfare conditions for animals kept on farms, living in zoos and used for experiments must be promptly developed and effectively implemented, and the commission must keep striving to ensure that farm animals are kept and transported under conditions that do not subject them to mistreatment, abuse, pain or suffering. the commission must consult widely with farmers, veterinarians, animal welfare organisations and other experts to help ensure that improving living conditions for animals would also make european food and agricultural products more competitive within europe and around the world.
in writing. ‒ i would like to reiterate the need to implement the points outstanding from the european union strategy for the protection and welfare of animals 2012-2015. there is also a clear need for a new strategy for the protection and welfare of animals for the years 2016-2020. high animal welfare standards are needed across all member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution in order to maintain a cohesive and well-functioning internal market based on the eu legislation related to animal welfare, as well as to ensure that eu citizens are increasingly informed regarding their consumer choices.
in writing. ‒ i supported this text as all our voters agree on some very clear principles which need to be reflected in the unified eu strategy on animal welfare, but also in all national legislations. animals should not be made to suffer needlessly, regardless of cultural customs or traditions, as we are now living in a modern society. all acts related to animals, both pets and livestock, need to be properly regulated across the eu to insure a maximum level of quality of life and treatment for these animals. it is also a matter of human health – as the consumption of meat increases, animals which were mistreated, crowded, fed unhealthy feed or otherwise abused will have negative effects on the health of our citizens. therefore, both for the sake of the animals but also of european people, this new strategy should be properly implemented by the commission and member states.
in writing. ‒ the way a society treats animals, domestic or wild, is defining for its degree of civilization. the avoidance of ill-treatment of animals and the recognition of their rights are thus essential principles that deserve to be upheld by the european union. the current european regulations are insufficient and need a harmonised strategic framework for the next period, conferred by european parliament resolutions. this framework covers issues relating to the livestock sector, but also to the environment, public health, the internal market and the free movement (of pet animals). important issues are the persistence of the abominable practice of dog fighting, the presence of stray dogs in large cities, the violent killing of domestic animals, the use of animals as guinea pigs, the threat of extinction in the case of elite breeds or the use of wild animals in circuses. to avoid these practices, an integrated approach, promoted by the european commission for the period 2016-2020 and based on rigorous scientific criteria, is needed. the current resolutions are absolutely necessary for a united approach to the problem and for the general improvement of the animal situation in the territory of the member states.
in writing. ‒ in areas of the world affected by conflict or natural disasters, children are the most disadvantaged group. the fundamental right to education is an essential factor in the training of future professionals and must be protected at all costs. we cannot afford to have generations of children killed by various political crises or wars, and their prospects reduced by lack of education. children will only be able to deeply understand all other rights - social, economic, cultural and political - after they have acquired the education through which they will operate. education also plays a fundamental role in creating health awareness, thus facilitating health and sanitation interventions. in addition, lack of education should not be a factor of discrimination in the future. i believe that the role of host countries and international donors is essential in delivering this fundamental right through deeper involvement in education, psychological support and promotion of learning the language of the host country, to ensure better integration of refugee children. i therefore support the motion for a resolution - education for children in emergency and protracted crisis situations.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the european union must work with partner countries, other donors, the private sector and civil society to improve the prospects for education for young people in conflict and emergency situations, given the crucial importance of the stabilising role that young people can play after the end of conflict thanks to their eventual acquired skills for rebuilding infrastructure, basic services, health care and education systems, and to reduce the risks of an unemployed young population causing social unrest or slipping back into the vicious circle of violence.
in writing. ‒ education is a fundamental human right and the right of every child. it is vital in order to be able to enjoy in full all other social, economic, cultural and political rights. it is a catalyst for development, which improves the prospects of other interventions in the areas of health, sanitation, disaster risk reduction, job creation, poverty reduction and economic development. efforts in this direction will ensure that the principle of policy coherence is respected. i therefore absolutely agree on the need to ensure a more integrated, systematic and effective response to education needs in emergencies and i strongly believe that the eu must work with partner countries, other donors, the private sector and civil society to improve educational opportunities for young people in conflict situations. education has to be considered as an integral part of the humanitarian response. all actors must increase their commitment to education by mobilising the education cluster in the early stages of an emergency and by ensuring that sufficient funds are dedicated to it.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution that will instate equal rights for every child, regardless of their ethnic origin and social, migration or residence status, particularly in terms of educational opportunities for young people in conflict or emergency situations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text as it is an important text on child protection and care in the european union. as the most vulnerable and yet the most important part of human society, it is vital that children are educated and prepared to deal with a wide variety of crises. it is a matter of survival but also societal development and all efforts should be made in ensuring adequate financing programmes for access to training courses and long-term education for children in emergency or extraordinary situations, both for those in the eu and those outside our borders.
in writing. ‒ children are the most vulnerable human group in the face of emergencies and crises. they should therefore be adequately protected against those risks. the right to education of a significant proportion of children worldwide is affected by armed conflicts, social unrest or natural disasters. also, a significant number of children are refugees or displaced. education is a fundamental right of children, which can provide them with prospects for a better life and the chance to overcome the difficult situations in which they find themselves. unfortunately, this right is not guaranteed everywhere by the states and governments in power. the european union has been involved in addressing the situation through the 'children for peace' initiative and through participation in un programmes. however, more is needed to eliminate discrimination against girls and children with disabilities, to prevent school drop-out, to combat illiteracy, to ensure education for children in crisis areas, to provide psychological support for children in conflict areas, to socialise refugee children, and to prevent child abuse and trafficking. a number of funds have already been created, but more humanitarian funds need to be allocated to education. it is therefore necessary to adopt this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i consider cohesion policy to be one of the most important tools the european union has to combat inequality and support territorial and social cohesion in its regions. the 2014-2020 programming period has brought remarkable changes in the simplification approaches addressed in cohesion policy, but nevertheless certain reporting procedures, controls in relation to the european structural and investment funds are still burdened by bureaucratic mechanisms. these types of burdensome procedures become an impediment both for beneficiaries, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, ngos and municipalities with limited administrative and financial capacity, and for managing authorities. furthermore, another obstacle faced by the beneficiaries mentioned above is generated by the current over-regulation which causes delays, entailing certain indirect costs for those eligible to receive eu funding. all these difficulties lead to negative outcomes, reducing the impact of investments from european funding. immediate steps are needed to simplify and make cohesion policy more performance-oriented in order to increase the impact of european projects and to attract beneficiaries on a continuous basis.
in writing. ‒ although the reform of cohesion policy for the 2014-2020 programming period - which addresses simplification, application, management, reporting and control methods in relation to the european structural and investment funds - is still burdensome for both beneficiaries and managing authorities, especially those with the least administrative and financial capacity, i believe that the simplification of the rules on financial instruments under the esi funds should be promoted in order to align them more closely to the needs of beneficiaries and ultimately improve their use.
in writing. ‒ despite the reformed cohesion policy for the 2014-2020 programming period, in which simplification methods are addressed, application, management, reporting and control with respect to the european structural and investment funds are still cumbersome for both beneficiaries and managing authorities. complicated procedures can place a significant burden on beneficiaries. i therefore believe that the commission should introduce detailed guidelines on simplification in order to make the member states and their regions aware of their task of eliminating, or at least significantly reducing, the administrative burden and gold-plating arising at national and local levels. moreover, the commission should provide the member states and their regions with a roadmap for streamlining and simplifying control, monitoring and reporting activities.
in writing. ‒ i strongly agree with the commission providing the member states with a roadmap for simplifying control, monitoring and reporting activities. moreover, what is very needed is a simplification of the rules governing financial instruments within esi funds.
in writing. ‒ i voted for a reformed cohesion policy that will reduce the burden of complicated procedures on beneficiaries, particularly small and medium-sized businesses, ngos and municipalities, which are in need of eu funding.
in writing. ‒ there is a wide consensus across the european union that the level of bureaucratic hurdles, administrative burdens and lack of access to information are severe enough to deeply hinder the implementation of the cohesion policy. we have a wide number of reports, from grass-root organisations to administration officials, that there are problems with its transparency, with its language, with its accessibility for all stakeholders. that is why i voted for this motion for a resolution and i sincerely hope its recommendations will be taken into account.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the resolution entitled ‘towards simplification and performance orientation in cohesion policy 2014-2020’. i believe that, despite the considerable steps towards more clarity and coherence in european structural and investment fund management in the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework, there is still room for simplifying the application, implementation and reporting tasks for beneficiaries. in my view, this would especially require more guidance by the commission towards member states on administrative streamlining and promotion of best practices. nevertheless, simplification should never be carried out to the detriment of the safe use of esi funds and ultimately of the eu budget. this is why i believe that there is a need to ensure a proper balance between simplification and the detection and prevention of irregularities and fraud through the use of operational tools like the arachne database.
in writing. ‒ effective implementation of eu cohesion policy requires simplifying current procedures and focusing on achieving tangible results. important steps have been taken so far to simplify the agenda for the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework. despite these steps, however, the implementation, management, reporting and control of the structural and investment funds remain cumbersome processes for beneficiaries and implementing authorities. the most important impact is felt by small and medium-sized enterprises, non-governmental organisations and municipalities, which are in the greatest need of european funding. this significantly reduces the impact of european funds on the development of the regions of the member states. at the same time, the duplication and differences that arise in audit work and methodology require a unification of practices and a greater focus on efficiency and results. in this regard, the commission should develop detailed guidelines on simplifying administrative procedures at member state level and developing common practices at european level, in order to avoid the bottlenecks that arise. digitalisation and simplification of application procedures by providing all relevant information can be useful for this purpose, if a stronger focus is placed on the needs of beneficiaries. the present resolution is a first step in the right direction.
madam president, i am pleased to note that in the document adopted on sunday europe and turkey are rediscovering their common future and the need to work. i regret that we only discovered this after the terrible crisis we have been experiencing in recent months. i also regret that this meeting was held after the second round of elections in turkey; but better late than never, and i applaud the deal that was made. as for the money to deal with the situation of migrants, i think that this money should be given quickly and that there should be no problems in setting up this fund. turkey must also demonstrate in a very concrete way the commitments it has made. secondly, as regards the accession process, i am pleased to hear that chapter 17 is to be opened. i consider this a positive step, it was a mistake to postpone the opening of new chapters so much. finally, i do not see why our greek colleagues are so unhappy to be criticised, because greece's responsibility in the recent crisis is enormous, and i think that in the coming weeks greece will have to show solidarity with our efforts.
mr first vice-president of the european commission, i would first like to thank you for the way you have negotiated in such a difficult context. our group has repeatedly called on the commission and the council to help both turkey and lebanon and jordan to cope with the influx of refugees. let's face it: these countries face much greater difficulties than the european union. this agreement is good, even if it comes too late or rather late: both in managing the refugee crisis, and in our counterterrorism strategy, both in fighting daesh, and in trying to stabilize syria, we need turkey. we can't do without a partner like that. i do not hesitate to say that the process of further enlargement with turkey must be advanced and new chapters must be opened, apart from chapter 17, i believe that chapters 23 and 24 are essential to guarantee fundamental rights and freedoms.
blue-card question.– mr borghezio, the turkish geostrategic space is part of the euro-atlantic space – part of south-eastern europe somehow – and everything going on in turkey seems to influence european security and defence to a great extent. do you not think that we need turkey for europe’s security? – because, just like italy, turkey is a mediterranean state, and the security of europe is greatly influenced by turkey. we have to cooperate with turkey.
in writing. the european commission adopted today a package of legislative proposals on the circular economy. the circular economy has a direct impact not only on the environment, but also on jobs, industry, energy, research, etc. the key actions in this package must aim at transforming the eu economy into a sustainable and competitive one. so, beyond the mandatory product design requirements, we need to encourage research and innovation and continuous training of the workforce. i also stress that often price is sometimes a barrier to putting circular economy principles into practice. as long as a product (electronic, electro-manager or other) costs less when new than when repaired, the consumer's choice is obvious. last but not least, ensuring sustainable access to raw materials is essential for the competitiveness and growth of the eu economy and for the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. main raw materials, including renewable and secondary raw materials, need to play an important role in production processes in the circular economy. therefore, we need to improve the availability of secondary raw materials data and support eu-wide research on the flow of raw materials.
in writing.– there are lots of compelling benefits of a circular economy. most of them are environmental, such as the improvement of our living environment, the protection of scarce natural resources or the reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. there are strong economic benefits as well, like the sustainable availability of raw materials, job creation within a more labour intensive production model and the decoupling of economic growth from the use of resources. nevertheless, the real driver behind the need for a new economic and consumption model is that we do not have a choice; we are already witnessing the irreversible ecological damage we are doing to our land and marine environment. i am happy that the commission stuck to its promise to present its new circular economy strategy before the end of the year and i am looking forward to exploring it in detail. i do hope that through this strategy we can ensure the long-term economic predictability that is needed to enable the technological development and investment in a new, circular economy.
in writing. the concern of the author of this report for the respect of human rights with regard to economic migrants and asylum seekers is admirable. but turning frontex into an institution that deals with alleged violations of immigrants' rights is unacceptable. the purpose of frontex is to defend and protect the eu's borders and, in the meantime, to prevent by specific means the entry of persons who could trigger attacks such as the one in paris. the recommendation to create a mechanism for refugees to complain about human rights violations is welcome, but it does not need to be set up within frontex, which is an operational institution and must be a body whose purpose is the security of the eu and its citizens. by giving frontex another, predominantly bureaucratic, mission, the commission will only diminish its ability to effectively cope with the mission entrusted to it at its inception and i therefore believe that it would be a mistake at this time when the eu's borders are being weakened. i therefore believe that measures should be taken to strengthen and increase the response capacity of frontex to ensure the security of the eu's borders and not invent bureaucratic obstacles.
member of the commission.– madam president, the report members are adopting today is the result of very intensive and fruitful work. it is comprehensive, inspiring and – i am happy to say – to a large extent in line with the commission’s thinking. i would like to thank the rapporteur, the shadow rapporteur and everyone who worked on the report. there were more than 500 amendments, which demonstrates how much thought and energy went into it. the report showed that cities are of an ever—growing importance for all of us, quite simply because more and more of us are living in the city – 80% of europeans live in urban areas. so it is logical that we have to tackle some serious challenges in urban areas: congestion, demographic change, road safety, access to mobility and air pollution, including co2. the report reflects these challenges and proposes solutions that can be manifested. i will not go through all of them, but will mention only three that i find particularly important at this point. first, sustainability and urban mobility plans. these have proven to be a very useful instrument and show that voluntary instruments can work very well. this is encouraging for our efforts to support cities through the exchange of best practices and guidance. so, i would ask members, when back in their constituencies, to support the commission in promoting these. an intelligent transport system is the second area. members may be aware that the commission is running a platform for cooperative intelligent transportation systems (c—its). the aim is to deploy c—its as soon as possible, eu—wide, in a coordinated manner. cities would greatly benefit from this. more generally, the report recognises the incredible potential that digitalisation offers for individual mobility and city logistics. we fully agree on this point. digitalisation of transport is therefore a personal priority for me as well. the third area is investment and innovation. both are key enablers for jobs and growth. let us reflect together on how we can support cities in attracting more investment and how this investment can support innovation and how innovation can support sustainability. the report confirms that innovation in urban mobility offers huge opportunities. just take clean transport and the multiple benefits that decarbonisaton of transport offers. let us stop associating decarbonisation with cost and start thinking of it in terms of investment. with urbanisation as a global mega-trend, i am convinced that it will really pay off and will contribute to the commission’s agenda for growth and new jobs. let me also mention efsi at this point, which is an appropriate mechanism to address its needs. urban mobility is such a rich topic that i would need to mention many more issues to be complete – road safety, the sharing economy, active mobility, efsi, save and the cohesion funds, multimodality and many more. but now it is time for the debate. i am really looking forward to hearing members’ concrete comments and i will be very happy to respond to their proposals at the end of the debate.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure. dear colleague, i understand that you agree that we need what the rapporteur and those who worked on the report said here, we need sustainability, urban mobility and, in the end, you said that you still have a problem with the fact that the use of diesel would be prohibited by amendments, to put it concretely. the commissioner has spoken here about decarbonising transport - let's look at it as an investment. what do you think: can decarbonising transport be seen as an investment and how?
commissioner, tomorrow you will chair cop 21 in paris, a key event that aims to highlight the impact that decarbonisation of the transport sector can have on economic recovery at european level. the european parliament has been your best partner in these efforts, starting with the white paper on transport and ending with the vote on the report on sustainable urban mobility this evening. dear colleagues, in the six years that i was general counselor of the municipality of bucharest, i understood that there is only one solution for our cities to prosper following the fourth industrial revolution: improving the environment, quality of life and health of citizens by ensuring safe, fast and sustainable urban mobility. as a european legislator, i have supported these efforts by proposing measures to manage transport efficiently, improve the performance of logistics services, promote public transport and, last but not least, inform citizens about alternative means of transport.
given the commission's assessment that urban areas are responsible for 23% of co2 emissions from transport and that this situation will only get worse as a result of increasing urbanisation if no action is taken, i think we can all agree that urban mobility developments are one of the most important areas of action that can shape our fight against climate change. it is therefore important to design all our modes of transport from a sustainable development perspective, taking into account the social, economic and environmental impacts of transport. i believe that the commission and the member states have a role to play in promoting a more effective sharing of good and innovative practices in sustainable urban mobility and the creation of public procurement systems that include environmental performance requirements to a greater extent than is currently the case.
in writing.– i support this initiative for the introduction of a sustainable urban mobility plan, financed by the eu budget, to protect the well-being and the safety of eu citizens and of the environment. the report outlines that currently 38% of road deaths occur in urban areas where traffic congestion costs are estimated at eur 80 billion. consequently, car emissions have also increased by 30% since 1990. it is therefore crucial to reverse this trend by redirecting urban mobility towards sustainable modes of transport. the report also stresses the importance of synergies between the commission and the member states to employ eu funding sources alongside the smart and sustainable mobility policies and projects, as well as the maximisation of these resources to achieve economic and social benefits. the report ultimately outlines the fact that existing initiatives such as road charging (eurovignette), and new approaches to urban transport such as car sharing, are imperative in the intermodal mobility chain, alongside cycling, walking and public transport. i emphasise the need for cooperative networks at both european and national levels, as well as an in-depth consideration of the aforementioned prospective solutions – with the ultimate objective of making mobility in urban areas more sustainable.
mr president, one and a half years ago, in april 2014, we voted right here in brussels on the regulation establishing the european year for development, and now we are in a position to discuss the application of this regulation and what can follow the european year for development. this means that for over a year we have been able to raise awareness among european citizens about the 12 priority themes. we've had the opportunity to explain how taxpayers' money is being spent, how development funds can change the lives of citizens in some of the poorest countries in the world. and - as is the case for romania - for several new member states that do not have a very articulated tradition of development cooperation, this european year was a very good opportunity to connect citizens to the european development agenda. as the permanent rapporteur on policy coherence for development, i welcome the fact that this concept was explicitly one of the priorities of the european year. the need for the union to have a fair and coherent approach to developing countries must, i believe, be explained beyond the narrow circle of initiates. the european year for development is an investment in the future of our development policies, not just a simple communication exercise, because the implementation of the 2030 agenda requires a joint effort, involving a very large number of actors with diverse capacities. but without european citizens who feel they are actors of sustainable development, without a genuine ownership of the 2030 agenda, we will not be able to move forward.
in this european year, we all agree on the importance of development policy, especially in the light of the migration phenomenon of recent months and the ongoing paris climate conference. it is in the well-understood interest of european citizens that economic development and living standards in the poorer regions of the world should be accelerated. i also believe that the development of a country is unthinkable in circumstances where hundreds of thousands of people of working age decide to emigrate permanently. it is precisely these countries that migration has the most negative consequences for, because mass migration can only lead to slower and more uncertain development. we must therefore do everything we can to stabilise the situation in conflict zones, since the young and well-educated population currently being forced to emigrate could represent the hope that the target countries of development policy will not need our support. thank you very much.
in writing. it is to be welcomed that the european development fund, which provides funds for the development of cooperation with developing countries outside the european union, is the largest financial contribution from the least developed economies. it is regrettable that some member states are not meeting their commitments regarding the level of official development assistance of 0.7% of gross national product. at the same time, to increase the efficiency of the european development fund, better and operational coordination of all funds is needed, with the same destination: the development of cooperation with the least developed countries. it is also necessary to make full use of these funds and to link the objectives financed with the development strategies of the countries concerned.
in writing.– only half a century ago most women in europe did not have voting rights, discrimination was at rife, women’s jobs were second-class and the pay gap was huge. thankfully, women have come a long way, winning the battles for legal, political and economic rights. however, we are far from true gender equality, particularly in the business world where senior management positions are still held by men. the fact is that, in the eu today, women account for just 21.2% of board members of the largest publicly listed companies registered in the eu countries. although quotas are a controversial topic, i view them as the best available solution to ensure better gender balance on corporate boards of european companies. therefore i support the 2012 commission proposal for a directive setting a minimum objective of 40% of the under-represented sex in non-executive board-member positions in listed companies in europe by 2020, or 2018 for listed public undertakings. the european parliament has strongly backed this proposal; unfortunately the council was less enthusiastic. i would therefore wish to remind members of the blocking minority, and that we need strong rules to tackle the gender imbalance in company boardrooms and ensure greater gender equality in the corporate world, and also in our society.
mr president, i listened carefully to the commissioner’s speech, which lasted more than 15 minutes, on the long list of violations and the saga of the illiberal democracy of viktor orbán. my question is, what is enough for the epp group and what is enough, and when is it enough, for the european commission? let me be clear from the outset that we have to distinguish between orbán’s dangerous behaviour and the hungarian people. the choice of the present instrument, an oral question, is the result of a very mature and responsible debate within my political group which aims exactly at this: protecting hungarian citizens and not penalising them for the severe infringements carried out by the hungarian prime minister. it is high time to understand how parliament can be both offensive and effective against viktor orbán without falling into the trap of his extremist populist rhetoric. the time has come for the commission to assume its responsibilities as outlined by the treaties and to unmistakably identify and present the deficiencies and shortcomings in terms of rule of law and democracy registered by orbán and his government, and to take action now.
mr. president, yesterday was december 1st. december 1 is one of the most important days for the romanian nation. it is our national day and symbolizes the formation of the modern romanian unitary national state. although we romanians are a people that was born and evolved with europe, our recognition as a national state only came at the beginning of the 20th century, when from the great empires were born, through self-determination and recognition of other europeans, the states of central and eastern europe. national day is a moment of joy, but it's also a moment that makes you think, makes you think about nations and how they should work together in the european union - i want to encourage you to do that. the immigration crisis is the latest threat to the resilience of the european construction. by imposing quotas of refugees on each member state, the european commission has done nothing but undermine the sovereignty of those member states that have different positions on the refugee crisis. in this context, i ask you to consider the following question: when, for some reason, brussels wants to decide on behalf of national governments, despite their opposition, is this not an attack on the fabric of the nation, and, by implication, on the foundation of the european union? because, after all, the nations of europe are the basis of the architecture of the european union. happy birthday to romania!
mr president, yesterday, 1 december, romania celebrated its national day, marking a moment of great historical significance: 97 years since the great union. i see no better context and place than the european parliament to speak in this way about romania's preparation for taking over the council presidency in 2019. this autumn, together with several representatives of romanian civil society, i launched a coalition to prepare for the romanian presidency of the council. it is essential that in preparing this important event for our country, we transparently involve as many voices of society as possible, in a common and coherent approach, which generates a clear set of priorities for 2019, capable of marking the future of romania and the european union. starting romania's preparation for this moment must become a priority, we must set the objectives of the romanian presidency and, at the same time, launch a broad public debate on this topic, which will obviously involve as many relevant actors of romanian society as possible in the efforts to prepare for this extremely important moment for romania.
in writing. ‒ this mandate will make it possible to repeat investigations on unfair tax practices entered into between some member states and multinationals. in recent months, several european tax havens, including belgium and luxembourg, and large corporations have tried to hide the agreements negotiated between them. the new mandate will increase the pressure to get all the information needed. moreover, it will ensure that ambitious measures recommended in the taxe report adopted last week will be well taken into account by member states. it will be possible to tackle vat fraud within the european union. all 28 member states of the european union have to fight together against fraud and tax evasion. this is a quick way to generate enormous financial resources that will be allocated to education, health care, infrastructure, etc.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the setting up of this special committee that will examine practice regarding tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect issued by member states since 1 january 1991.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the appointment of members of the special committee on tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or purpose.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the appointments to the special committee on tax rulings.
in writing. ‒ i support the eu-liechtenstein agreement on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments because it represents an important step in ongoing efforts to clamp down on tax fraud and tax evasion and upgrades the 2004 agreement that ensured that liechtenstein applied measures equivalent to those in an eu directive on the taxation of savings income. being in line with the need for more transparency on tax issues in the eu and in its relations with third countries, i consider it important that tax administrations in the member states and in liechtenstein will be able to: identify correctly and unequivocally the taxpayers concerned, administer and enforce their tax laws in cross-border situations, assess the likelihood of tax evasion being perpetrated and avoid unnecessary further investigations.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report, because the agreement represents an important step in the on-going efforts to clamp down on tax fraud and tax evasion. the eu and liechtenstein will automatically exchange information on the financial accounts of each other’s residents, starting in 2017 for information collected in 2016. the aim is to address situations where a taxpayer seeks to hide capital representing income or assets for which tax has not been paid.
in writing. ‒ on 28 october 2015 the european union and liechtenstein signed an agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information, aimed at improving international tax cooperation and compliance. i voted for this report that aims at ensuring that liechtenstein applies strengthened measures that are equivalent to the eu legal framework and that it complies with the automatic exchange of financial account information promoted by the 2014 oecd global standards.
in writing. ‒ the tax systems of the eu member states are the basis from which the union's budget projection starts. without coherent tax systems at national level, the pooling of european financial resources would become impossible. this is why member states and the european institutions must prevent and combat tax evasion and tax fraud, which can take place through so-called 'tax havens'. to achieve this, the european union has started a concerted action to conclude agreements with european countries where the level of taxation is very low and which can serve as 'refuge' for tax evaders from the member states. such an agreement was concluded with the state of liechtenstein on 28 october 2015 and involves the exchange of information on resident accounts as of 2017 to avoid concealment of income or assets for which tax has not been paid properly. more specifically, it is envisaged to apply measures equivalent to those laid down in council directive 2003/48/ec on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments, in line with european rules on administrative cooperation and oecd standards in this field. i think we should support this agreement.
in writing. i voted on the report on the eu-liechtenstein agreement on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments. this agreement is an important step in the ongoing efforts to combat tax fraud and tax evasion and updates the 2004 agreement which ensures that liechtenstein applies measures equivalent to those in the eu savings tax directive. this agreement shall enter into force on 1 january 2016.
in writing. ‒ i strongly believe that it should be made easier for migrants to complain when it comes to alleged breaches of fundamental rights. frontex should deal with complaints regarding infringements of fundamental rights in the course of its operations, should provide adequate administrative support for that purpose, and should set up an independent complaints mechanism. the mentioned mechanism must involve the fundamental rights officer. there is a clear need of such a mechanism in light of the growing migratory flows and expanding capacity of frontex, in particular with regard to the agency’s participation in migration management support teams working in ‘hotspot’ areas. i therefore support the setting up an independent complaints mechanism within frontex on alleged breaches of fundamental rights, call for more involvement of the fundamental rights agency and easo, and call for the speeding up the process of complaints to the benefit of the complainant. follow-up measures by member states must also be made public.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. it is important to mention that this report supports the recommendation by the european ombudsman that frontex should deal with complaints regarding infringements of fundamental rights in the course of its operations. moreover, frontex should provide adequate administrative support for that purpose and should set up an independent complaints mechanism.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report that calls for the setting up of a frontex individual complaints mechanism, laying down the structure, lodging and admissibility of complaints.
in writing. ‒ the ombudsman and the european parliament are right in calling for an effective mechanism to monitor respect for fundamental rights in all the activities of frontex, as it is also the case of other eu institutions, bodies and agencies. the setting—up of an individual complaint mechanism is especially important in the light of the highly sensitive nature of frontex’s activity, and also if we consider the long-term plans to extend the current legal remit of frontex and to transform it into an independent border guard service. nevertheless, i believe that any new legal obligation concerning an individual complaint mechanism should be matched with adequate financial and human resources and, on the other hand, should contain appropriate safeguards preventing the misuse of a complaint mechanism in a way to ensure that frontex is still able to effectively perform its tasks.
in writing. ‒ the intensification of migration to eu member states in recent months requires amendments to certain regulations on european migration management tools. one such instrument is frontex, which contributes to the defence of the union's external borders. ensuring the security of the member states is a key condition for the viability of the european construction. however, in the context of the intensification of the terrorist phenomenon, there is a tendency to attribute to all migrants from conflict zones close to the union's borders intentions that they do not have and to manage this problem by limiting their legitimate rights. in the event of such a breach, migrants should have the right to petition frontex individually, either in person or through representatives. the complaint to the european ombudsman concerns this very issue, which is not currently covered by any european regulation. if frontex staff were responsible for the violation of the fundamental rights of migrants, then these rights would be significantly reduced and there would be no danger of inhuman treatment of these groups. of course, that mechanism must also act as a filter on the admissibility of those petitions on a case-by-case basis. the adoption of the current document is necessary to avoid potential abuses.
in writing. ‒ in 2012, the european ombudsman opened an own-initiative inquiry into frontex's implementation of its fundamental rights obligations. in view of the increasing humanitarian and legal challenges facing the eu at its external borders and the intensification of the operations carried out by frontex, a mechanism capable of processing individual complaints concerning alleged violations of fundamental rights occurring during the agency's operations or cooperation with third countries is necessary, thus becoming a body of first instance for the submission of complaints. an individual complaint mechanism can only be effective if both potential complainants and agents taking part in frontex operations are informed about the right of persons to complain, through effective and gender-sensitive information, in the official languages of the eu, as well as in languages that asylum seekers and migrants understand. the establishment of a transparent and effective mechanism for individual complaints would provide citizens with the opportunity to exercise their right to an effective remedy when their fundamental rights are threatened. the report deals with these issues, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. i voted in favour of the special report of the european ombudsman on the own-initiative inquiry into frontex. the report welcomes the european ombudsman's own-initiative inquiry into frontex, but also frontex's current efforts towards stronger respect for fundamental rights. among the proposals included in the report is the establishment of a mechanism capable of handling individual complaints about alleged violations of fundamental rights during frontex operations or cooperation with third countries, with the aim of making it a first-instance complaints body.
in writing. ‒ sustainable urban mobility has to be one of our main priorities and a key to boost the social and economic conditions in cities whilst preventing growing inequalities and fighting against climate change. cities are the drivers of growth and economic activity, generating over 80% of eu gdp, but they are also often unequal places, with extreme divisions and with inadequate attention given to the needs of disabled people, the elderly, and others who are vulnerable. supporting and promoting walking and cycling in particular should be a high priority. i support the sustainable urban mobility plans as an important tool for providing adequate and safe mobility solutions for all citizens (including also persons with reduced mobility), improving quality of life in cities by fostering modal shift towards sustainable modes of transport, and promoting efficient, affordable, safe and accessible public transport as an integral part of sustainable urban development.
in writing. ‒ i understand the importance of urban mobility, which is why i voted for the report as a whole. we need sustainable strategies that require investment. we need to move towards the digitisation of transport and we need to decarbonise it, but through investment and not by banning a particular type of fuel. that's why i didn't vote for the amendment calling for the end of fossil fuel subsidies. the amendment didn't pass. i think we need to set ourselves targets that each member state can achieve through investment. for this reason, i did not vote for amendment no 32 part 3. reducing emissions is necessary to improve lives, but we need to gradually set targets that can be supported by investment without affecting jobs.
in writing. ‒ i fully agree with the view that land planning is crucial to creating long-term, efficient and safe transportation networks that will have a strong impact on traffic volumes. safety is essential to the development of any sustainable urban projects. furthermore, all stakeholders, especially eu citizens, must be consulted and informed in order to ensure transparent planning, development and decision-making of urban development strategies. thus, i would like to call upon the member states to construct sustainable urban mobility plans.
in writing. ‒ urban mobility is often experienced as a constraint arising from over-reliance on private cars powered by traditional fuels. i voted for this report that calls for a faster shift to more sustainable modes of transport taking into consideration that today the mobility of eu citizens is still essentially based on cars.
in writing. ‒ there are numerous harmful effects of the current transport model on the fundamental elements of the natural environment, including air, water, soil and various ecosystems. as there is no one-size-fits-all solution for urban areas, as cities in the european union have specific situations and needs, which are determined by geographical location, climate or demographic structure, safety must always be considered a key element of all sustainable urban transport plans. estimates show that 82% of eu citizens will live in urban areas by 2050. new practices such as car-sharing alongside cycling, walking and public transport are developing. energy efficiency and the use of energy from renewable sources, which imply a low level of carbon emissions, are essential for achieving sustainable urban mobility. i believe that supporting urban mobility is possible and necessary for an integrated approach, with sustainable urban transport contributing to reducing energy consumption, air and noise pollution, accidents, traffic congestion, land use and soil sealing, and can also be one of the key drivers of sustainable economic growth.
in writing. i voted for the own-initiative report on sustainable urban mobility. the report finds that the transition to more sustainable modes of transport is very slow. the rapporteur therefore proposes that the european commission should require all member states and local authorities to have a sustainable urban mobility plan. such plans are absolutely necessary given that, according to forecasts, 80% of europeans will live in cities in the near future. urban mobility needs to be reoriented towards sustainable modes of transport in order to meet the major challenges of this century: climate, health and environmental protection.
question asked in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure. dear colleague, you have described this report as satisfactory. sure, it's important to have energy efficiency, balance the mix and reduce global warming. i'd be interested to know why you gave the qualifier "grateful". have you thought, perhaps, that there are concrete situations in europe where the balance of the mix will not be achieved, where de-industrialisation will take place, where certain investments will be closed, for example for fossil fuels? or what is the reason you gave the qualifier "grateful"?
mr president, commissioner, the debate tonight and the votes tomorrow are extremely important in defining the framework for the energy union. the two own-initiative reports, 'towards a european energy union' and 'reaching the 10% electricity interconnection target', present important elements for creating a more secure, sustainable and competitive energy market. the proposed measures, such as the creation of a modernisation fund, additional consumer protection measures, support for regional cooperation projects between electricity and gas distribution network operators are important objectives. at the same time, given that european smes and industry are vital to the european union's economy and competitiveness, we need to ensure that the proposed objectives and targets are not achieved to the detriment of european industry and jobs. member states are responsible for setting their own energy mix, with all targets on carbon reduction, energy efficiency and renewable energy being met. we are concerned that there are member states that are far from meeting these targets for 2020. given the current context of our energy dependence on certain external factors, the achievement of a fully integrated internal market, security of supply, energy efficiency and the optimal use of the european union's energy resources, as well as research and innovation, would maximise the benefits for new industries and new technologies, while ensuring protection and support for the workforce and traditional industries. in view of the role of interconnectivity in completing the internal market of the european union, i would stress the importance of the 10% electricity interconnection target, which requires the urgent mobilisation of all efforts at all levels and the mobilisation of financial resources. the future governance framework for the energy union post 2020 needs to be ambitious, reliable, transparent, democratic, so that all legislative proposals in the energy union will have to be subject to the ordinary legislative procedure, which involves the full involvement of the parliament.
mr president, the single market means first and foremost networks: gas and electricity, mainly. investment is needed in interconnecting national networks, and for this, not only funding but also political will is needed. joint projects are a win. the commission has to decide at national network level on the list of joint projects taking into account the level of interconnection with neighbouring states, available delivery capacity, existing absorption capacity, development of national networks. i think more important than the 10% or any other percentage in the future is the assessment of the need for interconnection based on the production-consumption situation in each member state. the energy mix is a national attribute. we have to respect the environment, but also the needs of the economy. coal must remain the raw material for energy production, with the application of modernisation and emission-related measures.
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, when we launched the energy union framework strategy, we set out to target measures specifically on lowering energy costs for household consumers. one year on, i am concerned that more work is needed to achieve an energy market that supports european households and where the reduction in energy prices is reflected in the bills paid. the specific energy mix of each state should include both indigenous and locally or individually developed sources, in particular renewable sources. a favourable investment climate for them can contribute to the modernisation of energy infrastructure. in addition, access to low-cost energy-efficient technologies can encourage entrepreneurship, especially among young people. energy security is an essential element of the energy union. in this regard, projects linking the electricity markets of the cee region should be opened to the south-east and alternative energy supply routes should be continuously exploited.
in writing. the eu's internal energy market needs common standards for smart grids, which are key elements in ensuring stable supply and free flow of energy across borders, as well as investments in the interconnection of smaller-scale gas and electricity networks linking neighbouring regions. in order to develop these interconnections, it is beneficial for all european citizens to have better cooperation between the commission and the member states and, in particular, between the commission and the regional authorities. in addition, such cooperation can contribute to the proper planning of energy demand and supply in the eu internal energy market and can ensure cost-optimal security of supply. moreover, those interconnectors will allow electricity grids to redirect energy from surplus areas to deficit areas, thus allowing the market to respond instantly to supply shortages wherever they occur and to compensate for circadian and seasonal cycles.
in writing.– in light of the long-term target of achieving 80-95% reduction of greenhouse gases by 2050, the purpose of the future energy union is to ensure a free flow of energy across member states. i support the initiative of a future energy union plan that enables eu consumers to access gas, electricity and heating in a sustainable, democratic and cost-effective manner. according to the report, the eu’s fragmented energy market has a severe impact on europe’s competitiveness and energy security. the report stresses the increased demand for an efficient internal energy market that can deliver energy taking into account factors such as safety, social and environmental responsibility and affordable distribution. alongside market integration, price convergence is also a pressing concern taking into account the variable costs provided by different energy sources. the report underlines that it is imperative to support local production of energy (primarily renewable) and to pursue up-to-date technological changes, alongside new modes of production and consumption trends such as electric vehicles. as mentioned in the report, i emphasise the upmost importance of a cohesive internal energy market, alongside interconnectedness and resilience between the national and the union’s energy security and market objectives.
in writing. we are again discussing in the european parliament the single european energy market, which does not exist. this is why european citizens pay more for energy. in the absence of a single market and therefore of competition at european level, large national energy companies have the possibility of charging rents to consumers in each member state. it is inexplicable and reprehensible that some member states, which do not really want competition at european level, are resisting by defending their own companies. that is why it is time to make visible progress towards the achievement of the european single energy market.
mr president, modernising the trade mark regime at european level will help the system to work better. this instrument allows, in particular, the effective fight against counterfeiting and piracy. the costs of counterfeiting go up to 8% of international trade, and the real losers are consumers. that is why our key objectives through this legislation have been related to public health, the protection of jobs, but also the defence of fundamental rights. i am pleased that the european parliament has been able to reduce red tape by using this mechanism, increasing efficiency but also reducing costs by up to 37%. the new rules reduce the possibility of exceptions that can lead to abuse, but also allow for better coordination on products in transit. the generalisation of this system at european level will help the beneficiaries. the consideration of balancing revenues for national trade mark bodies will increase the fairness of the european system. in my country, i must say, romania, consumers, that is, citizens, are unfortunately often misled by counterfeit products. it is therefore essential that the european union intensifies information and communication campaigns aimed at both citizens and companies - i am referring in particular to smes - wishing to secure the protection of trade marks. a strong common system of trademark protection will strengthen the european economy in relation to its competitors and i want as many informed beneficiaries as possible from all european countries and, in particular, from my country, romania.
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, i want to start by saying how much i appreciate this instrument. i had the chance to speak to several beneficiaries from my own country, romania, as well as from belgium, bulgaria and the netherlands. i saw how with a little money at the right time, and with dedication, people’s lives can change for themselves and also for their employees. such instruments are the right answer to the question: what kind of help do people need? most of them do not need and do not want state assistance, but rather want to be empowered to manage their own lives. the european parliament has been calling for such an instrument since 2008, by means of its own-initiative resolution. when the microfinance facility was eventually established in 2010, it was conceived in response to the worsening credit market in the european union and in order to reach the goals of the eu 2020 strategy on growth and jobs. however, even if overall the microfinance facility can take credit for making finance more accessible and for contributing to job preservation and job creation, there was relatively little focus on vulnerable groups. this is one field in which i hope that we will do better in the future. i cannot but hope that the instrument which will replace it from 2016, easi, will take into consideration our recommendations. and maybe other similar instruments should be set up to empower more categories of people: those who – as revealed by the evaluation – belong to an unprofitable target group like the young, unemployed or self-employed, immigrant minorities and disabled. after all, the economic incentives should go hand in hand with social inclusion measures.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as the representative of the romanians on the eastern border of the european union, i would like to draw attention to the risks posed by the economic vulnerability of this region, beyond which the wounds of the conflicts in ukraine and the republic of moldova are opening up. the north-east of romania suffers from a worrying development gap compared to the european average. despite exceptional natural and human potential, national and european policies have proven inefficient in harnessing local resources. i therefore believe that the european commission's attention should be urgently focused on the economic strengthening of the eastern flank of the european union. today, it is not armies, but economic offensive, propaganda and diversion that are changing the geopolitical reality. the destruction of ukraine and the chisinau crisis are also possible because brussels did not provide, at the right time, effective support for development and europeanization efforts. give all european citizens an equal chance to live decently, so that there are no strategic surprises.
madam president, chronic diseases are a massive social and economic burden for europe. according to the medical-scientific society ers, chronic diseases such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease kill hundreds of thousands of people every year and represent an economic burden of two hundred billion euros a year in the european union alone. despite this, member states are failing to follow the recommendations of the european semester on chronic diseases and to implement the un political declaration on non-communicable diseases. the implementation of all legislation related to non-communicable diseases and the exchange of good practices needs to be strengthened as a matter of urgency. i call on our president to urge the council to take action to raise public awareness and to increase the implementation of all european and international obligations in the field of chronic diseases.
in recent weeks, the entire hungarian community in romania has watched in disbelief as authorities accused a small-town entrepreneur, the local leader of a far-right organization, of committing a terrorist attack, but during a search of his home, only firecrackers and stargazers were found. the full truth will be revealed in court, but in the meantime, there is a depressing hysteria in the romanian media, and the entire romanian community is being targeted. there is a feeling among the hungarian minority, and even among some romanian publicists, that someone is trying to create intentional interethnic tension, and in the current complicated european security situation, the accusation of terrorism is enough. collective stigmatisation of a community can make it impossible to have a dialogue and debate about really important issues that are still rarely discussed in romania. obstruction of the right to use the mother tongue, the questioning of the symbols of the minority community, the selective application of the education law or the suspension of the process of restitution of church property. there needs to be a real dialogue between the majority and the minority in romania on these issues, not media manipulation and collective stigmatization.
president of the eurogroup.– mr president, i think it was mr annemans who said that we have here a divided parliament. now, i have been a member of a national parliament for 12 years and i always think that it is a good thing that parliaments are divided, for the obvious reason that we have to represent different political ideas in our society. the real question is whether we can share common goals, whether we can find an agreement on the way forward, on the choice of instruments. i think, listening also to the different contributions from parliament, that there is quite a large agreement on the way forward, and it is about the right policy mix. those of you have said that we have made mistakes over the course of the crisis are right. we went into unknown territory at the beginning of the financial crisis, in the eurozone crisis, and we developed our instruments and we developed new frameworks for policy. we set up emergency mechanisms, we created new institutions to strengthen our economic cooperation, and we have come a long way, so there is no reason for cynicism. there is reason for optimism, for example if you see at what pace we have designed and set up the banking union, and yes, everyone who says we need to complete it now is right. one of the lessons that we should learn over the course of the history of the european union is that we should finish our projects and not set up a framework and leave it half finished. so let us finish the banking union. i am convinced that setting up and finishing the banking union will be more important for economic recovery than any other project at the moment. so that is what we should do and we know what we need to do. we need to fight the risks that are remaining in our banks and we need to make sure that it becomes more solid. as president juncker said, it protects the deposits, which is key for our citizens. let us get it done. part of that mix of instruments should also be strengthening investments. the commission has taken a strong initiative with the efsi. let us get it up and running. let us expand it if necessary. let us see that we get the investments going. completing the banking union will be crucial to get a stronger credit flow back to our smes, companies wanting to reinvest again and others opening for business. a lot of young people all over europe want to start businesses. can they get their hands on credit? that is what the capital markets union is about, that is what completing the banking union is about. and yes, part of that policy mix also has to be growth-friendly fiscal policy. one of the key issues that is holding us back, holding back our economic recovery, is the indebtedness of our societies – governments with high debt, households with high debt, smes sometimes with high levels of debt, which is holding back our recovery. but there is no quick fix. anyone who believes that with a snap of one’s fingers one can get rid of those high levels of debt is mistaken. it will take time, but we have to get through it and we have to get financing and credits for our economies. that is key, and fiscal policy will support that. demand is returning in many of our eurozone countries. growth has returned to all of our countries except for greece, and i am sure that working with greece as we are now in a very constructive mode, and taking difficult measures that will help get the greek economy back on track, is the way forward. yes, there are issues of balance – political balance, economic balance – within our eurozone, but do not be negative about what we have accomplished. we have come out of a deep crisis, we have strengthened our cooperation, we have strengthened our monetary union in many respects and let us continue to do that, but let us do it in a way that sticks and not in a way that brings us new problems. so if we take new steps forward, and we will do in the second phase of the five presidents’ report, let us design it well. let us build a monetary union that becomes more resilient to shocks, rather than creating new ones.
blue-card question.– the package adopted by the commission to complete the economic and monetary union does not provide the necessary instruments to allow the economic and monetary union to enhance economic and social convergence. it is only by enhancing economic and social convergence between the members of the euro area and the other member states of the european union that we are finally going to make this currency – and the common economic and monetary union – a success.
mr president, i firmly believe in the future of economic and monetary union, in the future of the euro, as long as we implement the course of action set out in the report of the presidents. however, i regret that member states outside the euro area are taking too lightly the commitment they made when joining the european union, namely that they will take all the necessary measures to adopt the euro. i believe that the council and the european commission can do more to get these member states to fulfil their commitment. i believe that the european semester has become an effective instrument for coordinating the economic and budgetary policies of the member states. however, there is a gap in the functioning of the european semester that needs to be closed, namely that national parliaments must be involved from the spring stage in the examination of national reform development programmes and convergence or financial stability programmes, when they, the governments, are obliged to forward them to the european commission. i fully support the need to set up national competitiveness councils in each member state. i believe this is the primary responsibility of each member state, businesses and local and national authorities. (the president agreed to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).
answer to a question asked in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure. thank you for asking. the problem is that some national parliaments only learn about national reform programmes, convergence programmes, in the autumn, when governments present their draft budgets to national parliaments, after having already received the european commission's recommendations on economic and social policies. i therefore believe that it is necessary for the national parliaments to intervene as early as april, to be aware of these programmes.
question asked in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure. dear colleague, support economic and monetary unity. i'm with her. you have said that an economic mechanism is needed to regulate the relationship between the euro countries and other countries. can you tell us how you see this regulation through economics? because we have, of course, countries with the euro and countries without the euro.
madam president, i have witnessed, since 9 a.m. today, almost four hours of debate here. it's a very important subject. what do we want with economic and monetary union anyway? if we go back to the thinking of those who signed the treaty almost 23 years ago, we see that there are three pillars: the first pillar includes economic and monetary union. of course we have to look at both parliament and the commission responsibly and see whether the measures that have been taken - the effects of the measures - are what europeans, the citizens, expect. in the end, it is the citizens who are assessing whether we have taken concrete action, and we must say very objectively that, looking back, we see that very serious things have happened that have not led to the resolution of expectations - if i am referring here to terrorism, drugs, organised crime, but also to economic and monetary union. for me the answer is clear, but i do not know whether it is clear for the commission. the juncker plan for investment must take account of the poor areas and be allocated there, because we cannot talk about union when there is no social cohesion.
in writing. first, the package proposed by the commission does not leave enough room for monitoring and parliamentary debate at european level. the commission should launch negotiations for an interinstitutional agreement on european economic governance, including the european semester, and the monitoring of the implementation of the macroeconomic adjustment programme with the european parliament, the council and the eurogroup, as set out in the five presidents' report. second, we need to think about the future. the euro area will expand. it is important that new member states join the euro area when their economies are ready to cope with the rigors and constraints that this entails.
in writing. ‒ the european asylum support office is a body whose purpose is to strengthen cooperation on asylum between member states, to strengthen the implementation of the common european asylum system and to provide support to member states whose asylum and reception systems are under particular pressure. the european asylum support office benefits from the input of both the member states and some associated countries, in particular switzerland, iceland, liechtenstein and norway. the agreement with the swiss confederation has thus developed naturally, given the openness of that office towards countries which have concluded agreements with the union. the involvement of the swiss confederation in the work of the office has a positive impact on the support provided by the office, namely the exchange of good practices and expertise, the permanent and emergency assistance provided by the support office, the collection and analysis of information by the support office and the early warning and preparation system of the support office, which is why i voted in favour of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this proposal is to conclude the arrangement with switzerland on the modalities of its participation in the european asylum support office (easo). the main provisions of the arrangement foresee the full participation of switzerland in the activities of the support office, representation in the support office’s management board as an observer and without voting rights, and annual financial contributions by switzerland to the budget of the support office by an annual sum calculated, in accordance with its gdp, as a percentage of the gdp of all states participating in the support office’s work. switzerland accepted provisions concerning a possible increased contribution if the union contribution is increased. i support the adoption of the report, since i believe that member states must cooperate more closely on asylum matters.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion that will set out preparations for the swiss confederation regarding the modalities for its participation in the european asylum support office.
in writing. ‒ through its bilateral treaties with the european union the swiss confederation has adopted various provisions of european union law in order to participate in the union’s single market. i have voted for this recommendation on the draft council decision that will define the modalities of the swiss confederation’s participation in the european asylum support office.
in writing. ‒ the existence of conflicts and crises in certain countries of the world means that the number of people seeking asylum for various reasons in the territory of the member states of the union, but also in neighbouring countries, is increasing accordingly. in accordance with the rules of international and humanitarian law, member states are obliged to grant these rights to persons who justifiably request them. the work of the european asylum support office is designed to coordinate and support asylum-seekers' assistance policies in host countries. this activity would not be possible, however, without the involvement of the member states and the eu associated states. the involvement is realised in concrete terms, at the level of day-to-day activities, but also by providing financial support to support these activities. the participation of switzerland in the bureau complements the institution's jurisdiction over the whole european territory. as a country located in the heart of the continent and heavily targeted by asylum seekers from all over the world, switzerland's participation in this european policy is beneficial both for the union and for the swiss state. the adoption of the present agreement is therefore necessary in order to achieve the most coherent european asylum policy.
in writing. ‒ strong trade is one in which product diversity and membership are continually increasing and the rules applied are transparent and fair. a step towards such trade was also made through the negotiations and the provisional agreement with the dominican union, which has considerable political significance in the cotonou agreement as a further means of strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. given that dominica has fully integrated human rights and promotes the values and principles of democracy, good governance, respect for human rights and the rule of law, and has made considerable efforts to diversify and offers real growth potential, in particular in the tourism and geothermal energy sectors, i believe that this agreement will boost tourism and contribute to strengthening trade and investment relations. that is why i voted to finalize this agreement and support the visa waiver.
in writing. ‒ the commission has negotiated on behalf of the eu an agreement with the commonwealth of dominica on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of the commonwealth of dominica when travelling to each other’s territory for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. this agreement simultaneously represents a culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and the commonwealth of dominica – which is politically highly significant as an additional way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. i support the report as the new visa regime provides for visa-free travel for eu citizens; it will bring people closer and will boost tourism.
in writing. ‒ dominica has made a lot of progresses regarding civil and human rights and demonstrated that it has the same democratic values as the european union. i voted in favour of this report on the cotonou agreement regarding the waiver of short-stay visas as an important step forward for dominica’s economic and cultural area.
in writing. ‒ the eu should wisely allow legal access to third country nationals, as one of the means of both managing migration and protecting its good image, consistent with its values. of course, reciprocity should also always be sought, in order to also benefit directly eu citizens when travelling abroad. the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver with dominica is part of this possible menu of wisdom.
in writing. – i have voted for this recommendation on the draft council decision that provides a visa-free travel agreement for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of the commonwealth of dominica when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period amongst other provisions.
in writing. ‒ the european union has good cooperative relations with all countries in the world that share its democratic values and norms. to this end, the european commission is in constant dialogue with those states interested in intensifying their cooperative relations with the union and the member states. an important area of cooperation is the issue of visa-free travel for short stays. these periods are usually for tourist or business travel. the abolition of the visa regime is a significant boost to the development of the two-way tourism sector. the caribbean is a favourite holiday region for citizens of the member states of the union, as it offers excellent natural conditions at any time of the year. in these circumstances, the abolition of the visa requirement for european citizens would facilitate organisational arrangements and increase the number of european tourists to the states in the area, with significant effects on the economies of those states. the benefits would be mutual, allowing our citizens easier access to holidays in this region of the world. for these reasons, i consider that supporting the adoption of the agreement between the eu and dominica, but also between the eu and trinidad and tobago, grenada, saint lucia, saint vincent and the grenadines, with a view to the abolition of short-stay visas, is an important impetus for the development of tourism.
in writing. ‒ the eu's negotiations with the 14 pacific countries, including vanuatu, through the comprehensive economic partnership agreement are welcome, aiming to create new trade opportunities, strengthen multilateral trade rules, putting both the union's needs and the needs and interests of developing countries at the heart of the negotiations. in terms of trade, in relation to pacific states such as vanuatu, the union and its member states mainly import agricultural products such as palm oil, coffee and fishery products and export electrical and mechanical equipment. in terms of mobility, taking into account that the vast majority of schengen visa applicants are not at risk and therefore obtain a short-stay visa, but also that 36,6% of applicants obtain multiple-entry visas, we have solid evidence to exclude security risks and at the same time to highlight the benefits of the visa waiver. the agreement adds value to the eu's current support for democracy and its completion is essential and that is why i supported the objective it proposes by voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ the commission has negotiated, on behalf of the eu, an agreement with the republic of vanuatu on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens the republic of vanuatu of when travelling to each other’s territory for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. this agreement simultaneously represents a culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of vanuatu – which is politically highly significant an additional way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the cotonou agreement regarding the waiver of short-stay visas as an important step forward for the republic of vanuatu’s economic and cultural area.
in writing. ‒ the eu should wisely allow legal access to third country nationals, as one of the means of both managing migration and protecting its good image, consistent with its values. of course, reciprocity should also always be sought, in order to also benefit directly eu citizens when travelling abroad. the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver with vanuatu is part of this possible menu of wisdom.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this recommendation on the draft council decision that provides a visa-free travel agreement for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of the republic of vanuatu when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period amongst other provisions.
in writing. ‒ the dialogue that the european union has with the rest of the world is beneficial to boosting international cooperation. the signing of agreements on cooperation in specific specific areas also allows european values to be better promoted by means of implicit conditionalities. one of the important areas of cooperation is visa-free travel for short stays. those periods shall relate in particular to tourist stays or business trips. the abolition of the visa regime is a significant boost to the development of tourism. the pacific area is a developing region with excellent natural conditions for tourism activities at any time of the year. the elimination of the visa requirement for european citizens would facilitate organisational measures and increase the number of european tourists in the countries of the region, with significant effects for the economies of those countries. the benefits would be mutual, allowing our citizens easier access to holidays in this region of the world. for these reasons, i believe that supporting the adoption of the agreement between the eu and vanuatu, but also with samoa and east timor, with a view to the abolition of short-stay visas, is an important impetus for the development of tourism.
in writing. ‒ the idea of the union's role internationally and of going beyond the borders of the member states is intrinsically linked to the union's own success and to the strengthening of its institutions. in this context of internationality, visa liberalisation comes naturally as an opportunity for european citizens to access new territories, targeting tourism and trade. another caribbean country targeted by this liberalisation is the republic of trinidad and tobago, which has one of the most dynamic and prosperous economies in the caricom, due to oil and gas resources, high levels of direct investment and growing tourism. the eu is the second largest trading partner of the republic of trinidad and tobago, which has an outward-looking approach and an intensive, open trade policy. the present agreement will strengthen relations between the two parties and boost trade. i support the commission's position on how this framework for business and leisure travel will be secured and improved, which was embodied in the provisional agreement with trinidad and tobago, and i believe that only a positive vote can continue the beneficial path that has been started.
in writing. ‒ the commission has negotiated on behalf of the eu, an agreement with the republic of trinidad and tobago on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of the republic of trinidad and tobago when travelling to each other’s territory for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. this agreement simultaneously represents a culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of trinidad and tobago – which is politically highly significant an additional way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report on the cotonou agreement regarding the waiver of short-stay visas as an important step forward for the republic of trinidad and tobago’s economic and cultural area.
in writing. ‒ the eu should wisely allow legal access to third country nationals, as one of the means of both managing migration and protecting its good image, consistent with its values. of course, reciprocity should also always be sought, in order to also benefit directly eu citizens when travelling abroad. i supported the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver with trinidad and tobago as part of this menu of wisdom.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this recommendation on the draft council decision that provides a visa-free travel agreement for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of the republic of trinidad and tobago when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period.
in writing. ‒ the european union is also defined by the diversity of business models and economic production, which are protected at european level, and greater openness to third countries can only strengthen the economic mechanisms already formed in the european area. in this respect, the rapprochement between the peoples of europe and the pacific islands is a positive decision and this report notes progress towards deepening relations between the european union and the independent state of samoa, with the main areas of economic cooperation between the union and samoa being the private sector, the water sector and the development of tourism. with samoa a stable parliamentary democracy since independence in 1962, and with fundamental rights and freedoms protected by the constitution, the eu's political dialogue with samoa represents an additional opportunity to deepen cooperation on human rights. given that no member state has a consulate in samoa, which means significant costs for nationals of this country to apply for and obtain a visa abroad, the exemption from this obligation will be a definite advantage for travel of any kind to the european union and i therefore support this agreement.
in writing. ‒ the commission has negotiated on behalf of the eu, an agreement with the independent state of samoa on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement can only be concluded if the european parliament has given its consent. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of this territory when travelling to the independent state of samoa for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. this agreement simultaneously represents a culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and the independent state of samoa – which is politically highly significant and an additional way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the cotonou agreement regarding the waiver of short-stay visas as an important step forward for the economic and cultural area of the independent state of samoa.
in writing. ‒ the eu should wisely allow legal access to third country nationals, as one of the means of both managing migration and protecting its good image, consistent with its values. of course, reciprocity should also always be sought, in order to also benefit directly eu citizens when travelling abroad. i supported the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver with samoa as part of this possible menu of wisdom.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this recommendation on the draft council decision that provides a visa-free travel agreement for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of the independent state of samoa when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period.
in writing. ‒ the union has fought to promote and encourage democratisation and genuine and sustainable democracy in countries emerging from periods of political transition. but beyond the level of speeches, these objectives must be put into practice through negotiations with third countries seeking to achieve the results listed above and, moreover, through association with these countries, so that we can provide them with real economic support and our citizens can also enjoy a diversification of products on the market, a decrease in product prices and, why not, new territories to which they can access without additional formalities. the first step towards these objectives was the provisional application of the liberalisation of short-stay visas, which was correctly implemented at the commission's initiative, and i can only support its final adoption. considering the agreement to be beneficial to both parties involved, i voted in favour of this report and welcome the work undertaken by the eu through these agreements which will ensure a greater openness of its citizens to these areas.
in writing. ‒ the commission has negotiated on behalf of the eu an agreement with grenada on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement can only be concluded if the european parliament has given its consent. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of this territory when travelling to grenada for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. this agreement simultaneously represents a culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and grenada – which is politically highly significant and an additional way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the cotonou agreement regarding the waiver of short-stay visas as an important step forward for the economic and cultural area of grenada.
in writing. ‒ the eu should wisely allow legal access to third country nationals, as one of the means of both managing migration and protecting its good image, consistent with its values. of course, reciprocity should also always be sought, in order to also benefit directly eu citizens when travelling abroad. i supported the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver with grenada as part of this possible menu of wisdom.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this recommendation on the draft council decision that provides a visa-free travel agreement for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of grenada when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period.
in writing. ‒ in view of the cotonou agreement, to which the democratic republic of east timor acceded shortly after its declaration of independence, and at the same time taking into account the relations between the european union and the democratic republic of east timor, as well as the relationship between the member states and the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group, the latest political dialogue was favourable to facilitating cooperation on visa arrangements. this agreement on a fixed-term visa constitutes a step forward in the relationship between the eu and the democratic republic of timor-leste, strengthens the economic and cultural relationship and intensifies political dialogue on a range of issues including both human rights and fundamental freedoms. i voted in favour of this report on the agreement between the european union and east timor on the short-stay visa waiver as i believe that it is beneficial for both the european union and east timor for better cooperation both politically and economically and culturally.
in writing. ‒ the commission has negotiated on behalf of the eu, an agreement with the democratic republic of timor-leste on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement can only be concluded if the european parliament has given its consent. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of this territory when travelling to the democratic republic of timor-leste for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. this agreement simultaneously represents a culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and the democratic republic of timor-leste – which is politically highly significant and an additional way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the cotonou agreement regarding the waiver of short-stay visas as an important step forward for the economic and cultural area of the democratic republic of timor-leste.
in writing. ‒ the eu should wisely allow legal access to third country nationals, as one of the means of both managing migration and protecting its good image, consistent with its values. of course, reciprocity should also always be sought, in order to also benefit directly eu citizens when travelling abroad. i supported the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver with timor-leste as part of this possible menu of wisdom.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this recommendation on the draft council decision that provides a visa-free travel agreement for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of the democratic republic of timor-leste when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period.
in writing. ‒ the relationship between the european union and saint lucia is governed by the cotonou agreement, an agreement concluded between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states, on the one hand, and the european union and its member states, on the other, and by the celac-eu and eu-cariforum dialogues. it has led to the establishment of cooperation instruments, including the eu-cariforum partnership agreement and the caribbean-eu joint strategic partnership. this agreement on a fixed-term visa constitutes progress in the relationship between the european union and saint lucia, strengthens the economic and cultural relationship and intensifies the political dialogue on a number of issues, namely human rights and fundamental freedoms. i voted for this report because i thought it was good for the eu and good for saint lucia, both economically and politically and culturally. it is also beneficial for the population of this young country.
in writing. ‒ the commission has negotiated on behalf of the eu, an agreement with saint lucia on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement can only be concluded if the european parliament has given its consent. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of this territory when travelling to saint lucia for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. this agreement simultaneously represents a culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and saint lucia – which is politically highly significant and an additional way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the cotonou agreement regarding the waiver of short-stay visas as an important step forward for the economic and cultural area of saint lucia.
in writing. ‒ the eu should wisely allow legal access to third country nationals, as one of the means of both managing migration and protecting its good image, consistent with its values. of course, reciprocity should also always be sought, in order to also benefit directly eu citizens when travelling abroad. i supported the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver with santa lucia as part of this possible menu of wisdom.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this recommendation on the draft council decision that provides a visa-free travel agreement for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of saint lucia when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period.
in writing. ‒ relations between the european union and saint vincent and the grenadines are governed by the cotonou agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states, of the other part. this signed agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and nationals of saint vincent and the grenadines travelling to the territory of the other party for a specified period of 90 days in any 180-day period. this exemption agreement is a result of the deepening of relations between the european union and saint vincent and the grenadines, with a strong political significance, in line with the cotonou agreement, a further strengthening of economic and cultural relations, but also an intensification of political dialogue on some subjects, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. i voted in favour of this report on the agreement between the eu and saint vincent and the grenadines on the short-stay visa waiver as i consider that this agreement represents an important step both economically and politically, as well as culturally for both parties.
in writing. ‒ the commission has negotiated on behalf of the eu, an agreement with saint vincent and the grenadines on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement can only be concluded if the european parliament has given its consent. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of this territory when travelling to saint vincent and the grenadines for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. this agreement simultaneously represents a culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and saint vincent and the grenadines – which is politically highly significant and an additional way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the cotonou agreement regarding the waiver of short-stay visas as an important step forward for saint vincent and the grenadines economic and cultural area.
in writing. ‒ the eu should wisely allow legal access to third country nationals, as one of the means of both managing migration and protecting its good image, consistent with its values. of course, reciprocity should also always be sought, in order to also benefit directly eu citizens when travelling abroad. i supported the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver with saint vincent and the grenadines as part of this possible menu of wisdom.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this recommendation on the draft council decision that provides a visa-free travel agreement for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of saint vincent and the grenadines when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period.
in writing. ‒ the eu-uae cooperation relationship was established under the 1988 eu-uae cooperation agreement and in 2013 the eu strengthened bilateral cooperation relations. the signed agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and the united arab emirates when travelling to the territory of the other party for a specified period of 90 days. the visa waiver is open to all categories of persons travelling for various reasons, with the exception of persons carrying out paid employment. this agreement on a fixed-term residence visa constitutes progress in the eu-uae relationship and strengthens the economic and cultural relationship. it also intensifies political dialogue on a range of issues including human rights and fundamental freedoms. i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is beneficial both for the european union and for the united arab emirates, for better economic, cultural and political cooperation.
in writing. ‒ the commission has negotiated on behalf of the eu an agreement with the united arab emirates on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement can only be concluded if the european parliament has given its consent. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of this territory when travelling to the united arab emirates for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver agreement must be viewed in a wider context as a tool for intensifying cooperation, in which context both parties have a shared interest in stabilising the macro-region and acting as sound and reliable partners in various fields such as combating terrorism, trafficking in persons and climate change. the united arab emirates are also becoming major players in development and international aid. in this field too, the european union and the united arab emirates can be full partners. the visa waiver agreement therefore testifies to bilateral relations which will gain by being intensified. european citizens will not only be able to fully benefit from the partnership between the european union and the united arab emirates but also participate in it by travelling at a reduced, economical and practical cost.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the waiver of short-stay visas as an important step forward for the united arab emirates economic and cultural area.
in writing. ‒ the eu should wisely allow legal access to third country nationals, as one of the means of both managing migration and protecting its good image, consistent with its values. of course, reciprocity should also always be sought, in order to also benefit directly eu citizens when travelling abroad. i supported the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver with the united arab emirates as part of this possible menu of wisdom. the uae are also an important economic partner of the eu.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this recommendation on the draft council decision that provides a visa-free travel agreement for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of the united arab emirates when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period.
in writing. ‒ the european union has in recent years pursued a policy of intensifying cooperation with the uae in all areas of common interest. this process is based on the recognition of the remarkable progress that this nation has made over the past three decades. the adoption of a short-stay visa waiver is a first step towards strengthening cooperation between the eu and the uae. this is primarily beneficial to the development of tourism on both sides by facilitating free movement. strengthening bilateral relations would also be beneficial in order to coordinate actions to achieve regional stability in the gulf area, combat terrorism, human trafficking and climate change. as the uae becomes an important source of international development aid, coordination with the european union can be beneficial for global economic development. however, in the area of democratic rights and freedoms promoted by the eu internationally, many issues still remain that require in-depth dialogue. the adoption of the current agreement on the short-stay visa waiver lays the foundations for a strengthened dialogue with the united arab emirates, to the benefit of european citizens and uae citizens.
in writing. ‒ the fight against organised crime is an urgent objective that needs to be strengthened in the light of the latest tragic events in europe. one of the european agencies with this responsibility is eurojust, which facilitates cooperation in criminal matters both between member states and between them and other third countries with which agreements exist. of course, this task is always done with the support of all the other european institutions, including the ohim. parliament has already expressed its wish to be informed about eurojust's work, so as not to overstep democratic boundaries in the exercise of its operations, and wants the cjeu to have jurisdiction over them. furthermore, recognising the scale of some operations and the need for better structuring of the exchange of technical information, a memorandum between eurojust and the office for harmonisation in the internal market is welcomed as it is in the interest of both parties to develop good cooperation. given the vital importance of the protection of personal data and the establishment of a legal framework in which the exchange of information is secured for the smooth conduct of procedures within the eurojust system, i support and vote in favour of this memorandum.
in writing. ‒ the report proposes that parliament should give a favourable opinion on the council implementing decision approving the memorandum of understanding (mou) between the office for harmonisation in the internal market and eurojust. no amendments have been tabled to the draft report. the purpose of the mou is to foster cooperation between eurojust and the office for harmonisation in the internal market in compliance with their respective mandates. noteworthy is that any exchange of information or experience provided for in the mou does not include the transmission of operational information including data relating to an identified or identifiable person. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report timely delivery of payments to beneficiaries of the union budget; that will develop a strategic cooperation between eurojust and ohim enabling them to achieve their respective objectives.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report which will foster cooperation between the agency of the european union (eu) dealing with judicial cooperation in criminal matters, eurojust, and the office for harmonization in the internal market in compliance with their respective mandates.
in writing. ‒ the memorandum of understanding between the office and eurojust is necessary, especially in the context of the restructuring of the office through the reform of the european trade mark award and administration system. i believe that only through effective cooperation between the european institutions can we hope to achieve our common objectives, including in the field of combating crime involving two or more member states.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for an implementing decision wishes to highlight the conclusion of the memorandum of understanding with the office for harmonization in the internal market (ohim) which aims to strengthen cooperation in accordance with their respective mandates. by concluding this memorandum, the two institutions are willing and ready to develop strategic cooperation that can help them achieve their objectives. the memorandum is therefore of common interest to both institutions, eurojust on the one hand and ohim on the other. i fully welcome this approach of clarification by the two institutions, whereby the exchanges of information envisaged do not include the transmission of operational information, including data relating to an identified or identifiable person. furthermore, the council will need to be vigilant about the implementation of the data protection guarantee provided for in article 3 (5) of the memorandum.
in writing. ‒ the own resources decision is the key legal instrument that sets out the main elements of the system, in this case the size of the union budget. the new provisions are in support of the consolidation of the union budget and the prevention of potential losses. the member states must therefore have an own resources account opened in their treasuries on behalf of the commission or designate a body to do so. moreover, one of the provisions indicates the guarantee that no commissions or negative interest are charged for the own resources accounts, precisely to avoid exposing the budget to various risks. it also provides for the rationalisation of the annual adjustments to vat own resources and gni own resources. this report sets out concrete methods and procedures to meet the needs of the treasury and to avoid situations where the union budget could be exposed to financial risks, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the rules on making own resources available and the measures to meet cash requirements. it contains practical arrangements in respect of the establishment of traditional own resources, conservation of supporting documents, administrative cooperation, the applicable rate for the gni-based own resource, accounts to be kept for own resources, the timing for making them available and for making adjustments and provisions concerning cash management and irrecoverable amounts. by modifying the rules, the commission aims to avoid any problematic situation linked to technical recalculations. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report including the timely delivery of payments to beneficiaries of the european union budget, aiming not only at increasing the incentives to pay on time by making more expensive any late payment but also at ensuring proportionality, by capping the maximum increase of the interest rate at 20 percentage points.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report that lays out rules on how member states make their timely contributions to the european union budget available, thus allowing the commission to effectively manage its treasury.
in writing. ‒ like its title, this report deals with the rules on making own resources available and the measures to meet cash requirements. it contains practical arrangements in respect of the establishment of traditional own resources, such as the period for member states to be making the payments, the applicable rate for the gni-based own resource, the accounts to be kept for own resources, and provisions concerning cash management and irrecoverable amounts. by modifying the rules, the commission aims to avoid problematic situation linked to technical recalculations of the contributions to the european union’s budget. given the complexity of the european union’s own resources system, setting in place more efficient rules on how member states make their timely contributions to the european union budget available is essential to allow the commission to effectively manage its treasury. this report, which also highlights the curtail work of the high level group on own resources in delivering proposals for overcoming the deficiencies of the current system, will help us in making the own resources system more transparent and more efficient.
in writing. ‒ the accusation relates to part of the 2013 salary of a former employee of two newspaper publishing firms, of which georgios kyrtsos was the manager at the time, and is directed at georgios kyrtsos as the former manager of those firms. considering that the alleged offence clearly has nothing to do with the office of georgios kyrtsos as a member of the european parliament but is rather connected to his former position as manager of two newspaper firms, i supported the decision to waive the immunity of georgios kyrtsos.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report according to the position adopted by my political group.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report according to the evaluation made by the committee on legal affairs (juri).
in writing. ‒ the accusation relates to statements which stelios kouloglou is claimed to have made to the press in 2010 about the probity of certain members of the prison staff in patras, at a time when he was a journalist chiefly producing television reporting. considering that the alleged offence clearly has nothing to do with the office of georgios kyrtsos as a member of the european parliament, but rather is connected to his former position as manager of two newspaper firms, i supported the decision to waive the parliamentary immunity of stelios kouloglou.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report according to the position adopted by my political group.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report according to the evaluation made by the committee on legal affairs (juri).
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the major structural changes in world trade practices brought about by globalisation. the purpose of the fund is therefore to provide support for redundant workers by providing assistance for reintegration into the labour market and a range of related measures, including benefits and various incentives. following the redundancies of 1 603 workers in 69 enterprises operating in the economic sector, finland submitted an application for custom software activities in order to be eligible for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund to support these workers. the finnish authorities shall ensure that the principles of equal treatment and non-discrimination in access to the proposed actions are respected and shall ensure to the union structures that this financial contribution from the egf will comply with the procedural and substantive rules of the union on state aid. i believe it is important to provide financial support and to improve the access to employment of people who have been made redundant, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the plenary voted on a report giving the green light for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in finland the application relates to 1 603 redundancies (almost half of them relate to microsoft mobile oy) in 69 enterprises operating in the area of computer programming/consultancy in several finnish regions within the reference period 30 july 2014 to 30 april 2015. the egf funding of eur 2 623 200 will contribute to help around 1 200 redundant workers via different types of measures such as coaching, employment and business services, training, subsidies, start-up grants, etc. the redundancies were caused by the major structural changes in the electronics industry. i therefore supported mobilisation of the egf.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on finland’s computer programing industry enabling an egf contribution for the workers made redundant in that sector.
in writing. ‒ as shadow rapporteur i voted for this report that will bring an egf contribution of eur 2 623 200 to 1 603 workers made redundant in the ict sector of finland.
in writing. ‒ the current report concerns the mobilisation of the eu globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for a total amount of eur 2 623 200 for the 1 603 workers made redundant in 69 enterprises operating in regions covering the whole of finland. the egf aims to enable a rapid, efficient and flexible response to emergency situations i therefore welcome the speedy evaluation period for this application, which was less than five months. i also welcome the measures taken by the finnish government to use this application for providing redundant workers with coaching and training, pay subsidies, start-up grants, and other means that steer towards entrepreneurship. i view that as an important step to tackle the decline in the ict sector finland has experienced in the past years. the egf is an important legislative and budgetary instrument the union has to provide additional support to workers across the union, who are suffering from the consequences of the global financial and economic crisis and to assist their reintegration into the labour market. for this reason i voted in favour of this current report.
i voted in favour of this report because i support the idea of promoting innovation and economic growth through more accessible and more efficient trademark registration systems for all european citizens. in the union, a trade mark may be registered either at national level, at the level of industrial property of each country or at the level of the union. this relationship implies coexistence and complementarity between national and european trade mark systems, in order to make them more efficient for businesses in terms of reducing the cost and complexity and shortening the time required to register those trade marks. it will also increase predictability and legal certainty. this commission initiative does not involve a new system but a modernisation and harmonisation of the trade mark registration system. i support this agreement, which supports most of the users' interests. but we must be careful in implementing it and make sure that it does not lead to high procedural costs for citizens in the various countries of the union.
in writing. ‒ protecting the community market against the penetration of counterfeit goods, particularly in relation to internet sales, is a key element for the community market. the proposal aims to strengthen cooperation between the european union intellectual property office and the offices in the member states, which will allow the agency to coordinate projects in the interest of the union. it is also desirable to ensure transparency of information to buyers so that they are aware of the measures they can take against counterfeit goods which infringe their eu trade marks. the importance of such communication and cooperation has been demonstrated through the conclusion of several union acts and commitments, and its efforts have had an impact on the perspective of intellectual property rights holders, whose property enjoys greater protection throughout the union. in order to strengthen the protection of registered trade marks and to combat counterfeiting of goods more effectively, without prejudice to wto rules, in particular the freedom of transit, the proprietor of a registered trade mark should be able to prevent third parties from importing goods into the union without authorisation and provided that they are identical with a registered european trade mark, or to support that purpose.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the rapporteur's view of the overall objective of the revision proposed by the european commission in the area of the community trade mark, namely: to modernise the trade mark system in europe, to limit divergences between the provisions of the existing regulatory framework and to improve cooperation between trade mark offices.
in writing. ‒ the trade marks package represents a key legal tool in order to fight against counterfeiting of products. it will foster innovation and economic growth by making trademark registration systems all over the eu more accessible and efficient. the system is already in place, but with the current modernisation it will be better functional. our priorities must be to preserve public health, safety and jobs, and to defend fundamental rights. parliament also achieved lower fees of up to 37%, less bureaucracy, more efficiency and a system that benefits the users of trade marks. i welcome the fact that the agreement found on goods in transit will ensure the smooth transit of generic medicines to developing countries. i believed that we secured a more effective way of combatting counterfeiting whilst at the same time ensuring that legitimate trade interests are not adversely affected.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation for second reading on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation that will implement the councils regulation (ec) no 40/94 on the community trade mark.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this recommendation for second reading on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation that will repeal the commission’s regulation (ec) no 2869/95 regarding the fees payable to the office for harmonisation in the internal market (trade marks and designs).
in writing. ‒ the european trade mark must guarantee, in that order: reducing red tape, reducing waiting time, reducing costs, increasing protection and guaranteeing validity in the european trade mark system. i support the reform of the european trade mark award and administration system, but i also believe that we need to pay particular attention to the system of legislative harmonisation at member state level. we must strive to move in the same direction and to intervene at the level of the european commission when we see that harmonisation is not progressing as it should. i voted for the form proposed by the european parliament and the council because we need a coherent and uniform system of trademark management at european union level as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ some of the european union's objectives can only be achieved through uniform legislation throughout the community, and one of these objectives is to protect registered community trade marks and to protect the community market against the penetration of counterfeit goods. the union framework needs legislative coherence in relation to intellectual property rights, which is necessary to better protect those rights and to enable any citizen of the union to benefit from them, regardless of the member state in which he or she is located. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the expenditure relating to the european union agency for fundamental rights and the european border and coast guard agency. for these reasons, i support increased protection of registered trade marks and more effective fight against counterfeiting of goods, without prejudice to wto rules, in particular the freedom of transit, and support this harmonisation, voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ i believe that this revision of the directive harmonising certain aspects of the trade mark legislation of the member states of the european union, which has been in existence for over 20 years, provides an opportunity to learn from the good practices identified and to further strengthen the harmonisation measures adopted by national trade mark offices in respect of the substantive and procedural aspects of trade mark legislation.
in writing. ‒ this directive aims at approximating eu countries' laws relating to trade marks, in order to foster the free movement of goods and services and free competition within the internal market. this approximation concerns the fundamental rules on trade marks acquired by registration. eu countries retain the right to organise the procedural aspect and the protection of trade marks acquired through use.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation for second reading on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive that will identify trade mark laws in member states.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this recommendation for second reading on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive to approximate the laws of the member states relating to trade marks.
in writing. ‒ european trade mark legislation needs to be harmonised consistently across the european union. i appreciate the definition of the european trade mark in this directive. i believe that we need to increase the protection of intellectual property rights throughout the european union and i also believe that the member states must apply the principles laid down by the council and parliament as a matter of urgency. at the same time, i am a strong advocate of simplifying the procedures for granting trademark rights to european citizens. member states must harmonise their national legislation by the first deadline (2019) to finally establish a single european area for the recognition, protection and administration of trade marks.
in writing. ‒ the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a control and enforcement system applicable in the area covered by the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the north-east atlantic fisheries introduces new monitoring and enforcement measures in relation to fishing activities in the north-east atlantic. the main changes introduced by this proposal concern new measures on the prevention, deterrence and elimination of illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, which are the responsibility of the port state, but also the integration of the notification procedures on port state control of foreign fishing vessels into a technological application, to the detriment of the traditional paper-based system. the european union is a contracting party to the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the north-east atlantic fisheries and it is therefore a matter of concern for the union's structures to ensure the long-term conservation and rational use of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic area. i believe that a sustainable approach to these types of resources and the generation of social benefits is necessary, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ regulation (eu) no 1236/2010 is amended in order to incorporate three neafc (north-east atlantic fisheries commission) recommendations which have become binding for the contracting parties to neafc and consequently for the eu. the scheme will include further measures to help the fight against iuu fishing; other changes concern new provisions for transhipment operations as well as revised notification procedures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report that will align the scheme with the fao agreement on port state measures to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, approved by the eu in 2011 and instated since 1 july 2015.
in writing. ‒ the european union is a contracting party of the convention on future multilateral cooperation in northeast atlantic fisheries, which aims to ensure the long-term conservation and optimum utilisation of the fishery resources of the north-east atlantic area, providing sustainable environmental and social benefits. i have voted for this report that will establish the principle that vessels involved in a trans-shipment operation in the regulatory area as the receiving vessel must communicate the port of landing regardless of whether the landing is to take place in a port inside or outside the convention area.
in writing. ‒ fishing is one of the main economic activities in the member states of the european union. one of the areas with the largest contribution to the fishing quotas set annually by the european institutions is the atlantic area. fishing in this region is governed by the recently adopted convention on multilateral cooperation in the north-east atlantic fisheries, to which the european union is a contracting party and one of the main supporters. the convention aims at the long-term conservation and optimum use of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic area and at the generation of sustainable social and environmental benefits. this document proposes to implement this convention and the recommendations adopted by the north-east atlantic fisheries commission by amending regulation (eu) no 1236/2010 to incorporate the provisions of the convention into european law. the amendment involves aligning the system with the fao agreement on port state competence measures to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, as well as clarifying and monitoring by computer the activity of vessels involved in transhipment operations. i believe that the amendments proposed in the present report make an important contribution to the rational exploitation of marine resources in the north-east atlantic. i therefore support the adoption of this document in its current form.
in writing. ‒ the transit measures adopted by the union in relation to the candidate countries are designed to adjust the economic, social and political pace of the latter to the realities of the union institutions. however, any transit measure is only a temporary advantage to obtain a commercial framework and strengthen citizens' rights. naturally, such concessions or their possible suspension should be seen as an incentive to accelerate the political and socio-economic reforms outlined in the 'growth pact', which are indispensable for the western balkan countries to meet the requirements of the copenhagen criteria and the acquis. to this end, bosnia and herzegovina was urged to adapt the interim agreement on preferential trade with croatia following the accession of the latter to the european union on 1 july 2013. the commission proposal also seeks to eliminate an existing shortcoming, namely the absence of a human rights clause, or this idea should be welcomed, as a practical application of the treaties. for all these reasons, i give my vote to this measure.
in writing. ‒ the eu has granted autonomous trade measures (atm) since 2000 to the western balkan countries. these are unilateral preferences which allow unlimited duty-free access to the eu. the atms will expire after december 2015. the commission proposes to extend them until the end of 2020 for serbia, kosovo, albania, fyrom, montenegro, and bosnia and herzegovina. the proposal includes a human rights clause, which is important for us. previously, it was not possible to suspend trade preferences in the event of systemic breaches of human rights and the rule of law. because of croatia's accession to the eu it is necessary to adapt the trade part of the stabilisation and association agreements in force. these negotiations have been concluded with all western balkan countries, except bosnia and herzegovina, where they remain blocked. to increase leverage the commission proposal includes a provision to suspend the atms for bosnia as of 1 january 2016 if by then no solution has been found. the annual loss for bosnia and herzegovina is estimated not to be economically critical but it is a politically symbolic point. i supported this approach in order to get bosnia to engage in the negotiations while stressing the need for a mutually acceptable solution.
in writing. ‒ following the accession of croatia to the eu on 1 july 2013, bosnia and herzegovina has not yet agreed to adapt the interim agreement in order to take into account the preferential traditional trade between croatia and bosnia and herzegovina under the central european free trade agreement (cefta) which linked the two countries before 1 july 2013. i voted in favour of this report on the suspension of special commercial measures concerning bosnia and herzegovina until its acceptance of the interim agreement.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has approved today the outcome of the interinstitutional negotiations on the amendment of the regulation concerning the autonomous trade measures for the western balkans. i welcome in particular the introduction of the possibility to temporarily suspend preferential trade measures in case of systematic violations of human rights. to this purpose the use of delegated acts is foreseen which guarantees the full involvement of the european parliament in the process.
in writing. ‒ trade between the eu and the western balkan countries is liberalised through a number of stabilisation and association agreements (saa) and an interim agreement (ia) in the case of bosnia and herzegovina. i have voted for this report on the european union’s stabilisation and association process and suspending its application with regard to bosnia and herzegovina until bosnia and herzegovina accept the eu methodology regarding the adaptation of the interim agreement.
in writing. ‒ the european union has always had cordial relations with bosnia and herzegovina, a country it has been involved in strengthening since its declaration of independence. one of the decisive areas for the country's development and stabilisation is free trade. in this respect, the eu has concluded an interim agreement with bosnia and herzegovina since 2000, which is a unilateral preferential arrangement under which it enjoys duty-free access to the eu for an unlimited period of time for most products, especially agricultural products. the commission is now proposing three main amendments to the agreement by extending the current preferences to allow time to align the preferences with those provided for in the stabilisation and association agreement, the introduction of a 'human rights' clause in the agreement allowing for the suspension of preferences in case of serious violations and the possible suspension of the agreement as of 1 january 2016 if the agreement is not adapted to include croatia in the preferential practices. the present report accepts these amendments, which it qualifies as conditional on the agreement respecting the principles of democracy and the rule of law, the implementation of effective economic reforms, regional cooperation with other western balkan countries and the strengthening of the administrative institutions of the bosnian state. in conclusion, the present document is an important step forward.
i support the conclusion of this agreement as there is a clear need for europol to cooperate with the united arab emirates. the united arab emirates is becoming increasingly relevant in the fight against organised crime as the country becomes an increasingly important hub for economic and financial crime. the profits from these criminal activities, such as vat fraud, money laundering, were reinvested in the uae and important criminals involved in these frauds sought refuge there. but i want to say that i would have expected, out of solidarity with the european union, and given that the united arab emirates asked us for a short-stay visa, so visa liberalization with the european union, to have voted against, because the united arab emirates refused to take refugees in this wave of refugees that came to europe.
in writing. ‒ fighting crime in europe has become a key target for the union, given the european and international context, the intensification of terrorist attacks and the threats posed by some extremist groups. in this context, it is important to identify the centres of organised crime networks and, even if they are outside the eu area, passivity is not acceptable, but we must get cooperation with those key states. since it is for the council to approve the conclusion of international cooperation agreements with third countries, after consulting the european parliament, the council proposed a strategic cooperation agreement between europol and the united arab emirates, an initiative which can only bring benefits to the european police office. although such agreements may concern the exchange of operational, strategic, technical or classified information and personal data, in this case it was decided to exclude the exchange of personal data, so that the issue of data protection is not relevant. i voted in favour of this cooperation as it would facilitate and intensify the fight against financial fraud and contribute to strengthening international cooperation in the field of financial investigations and other relevant criminal law matters.
in writing. ‒ following the increasing need for the european police office to exchange operational information with the united arab emirates, this draft legislative resolution complements europol's competences in strategic cooperation to combat serious crime and terrorism. this agreement would be beneficial for criminal investigation procedures, but also in the action we take to prevent crime. i also want to stress that it is important to consider data protection in exchange for personal data. i therefore support the report on the draft council implementing decision on the approval of the conclusion by europol of the agreement on strategic cooperation in the fight against serious crime and terrorism between the united arab emirates and europol.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the proposed approval of a strategic cooperation agreement between the european union and the united arab emirates with the purpose of fighting against serious crime and terrorism, which shall include specialist knowledge, general situation reports, results of strategic analysis, information on criminal investigation procedures, information on crime-prevention methods, training activities, and the provision of advice and support in individual criminal investigations. there is a clear need to cooperate with the united arab emirates on the issue to avoid that the country becomes a growing hub for economic and financial crime. this agreement would aid and reinforce the fight against financial fraud and would contribute to enhancing international cooperation in the field of financial investigation and other relevant criminal matters. i support the call on the commission to inform the parliament and the council of the outcome of the assessment on the cooperation agreement and, if appropriate, to submit a recommendation for an authorisation to open international renegotiation of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report regarding the strategic cooperation agreement with the united arab emirates, since it would aid and reinforce the fight against financial fraud and would contribute to enhancing international cooperation in the field of financial investigation and other relevant criminal matters.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report on the operational needs for europol to cooperate with the united arab emirates. europol statements show that the united arab emirates are increasingly relevant in the fight against organised crime as that country is becoming a growing hub for economic and financial crime.
in writing. ‒ the european union has in recent years supported a policy of cooperation with the united arab emirates in areas of common interest. these include the fight against organised crime and international terrorism. the country's location in a very important region in terms of supporting and financing terrorist networks and criminal groups promoting illicit trafficking requires the conclusion of a comprehensive agreement to combat these negative phenomena. europol's work in this area has been substantially enhanced in recent years, thanks to the strengthening of cooperation between member states and the adoption of specific policies at european level. the conclusion of a strategic cooperation agreement between europol and the united arab emirates shall entail the regular exchange of operational, strategic, technical or classified information, other than personal data, on the general situation, the results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigations, crime prevention methods, training and advice in certain criminal investigations. there is now a clear operational need for this agreement, in particular in relation to vat fraud, intra-community shell company fraud and money laundering. even if the agreement reached by the council will have to be reassessed after the adoption of european legislation on europol, the present report can be adopted.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision on the conclusion by the european police office (europol) of a strategic cooperation agreement on fighting serious crime and terrorism with the united arab emirates, as such cooperation is needed to be more effective in preventing and combating serious forms of crime. this strategic agreement involves the exchange of expertise, general situation reports, information on criminal investigation procedures and crime prevention methods, as well as advisory and support activities in certain criminal investigations. the exchange of personal data is not provided for in the new cooperation framework. i consider this agreement to be a first step in the process of strengthening cooperation in the fight against organised crime, particularly financial and economic crime. the united arab emirates has become a centre of financial and economic crime in recent years as the main criminals involved in fraud have sought refuge there. therefore, in view of the current instability in the area, i believe that there is a need to support and strengthen the actions of the competent authorities and to cooperate with them in preventing and combating organised crime and terrorism through the exchange of strategic and technical information.
in writing. ‒ the report 'towards a european energy union' raises the issue of the global challenges facing the european union's energy system and highlights the need for a strategy to increase energy security, sustainability and accessibility. the achievement of these targets is thus achieved with a view to ensuring security of energy supply and reducing emissions, especially as the eu's 2030 energy targets include a 40% reduction in greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions compared to 1990 levels. furthermore, other dimensions to be achieved in order to build a secure and sustainable energy system are the completion of a fully integrated internal energy market at eu level, the reduction of energy consumption, which will lead to a reduction in energy imports and pollution, and, not least, the continuation of research and innovation projects. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that a joint effort by all member states is needed to make energy safe, sustainable and accessible for the citizens of the union.
in writing. ‒ the ep resolution of 5 february 2014 calls for the adoption of three mandatory targets: an energy efficiency target of 40%, a renewable energy target of at least 30% and a greenhouse gas emissions reduction target of at least 40% compared to 1990. the latter underpins the development of the decarbonisation dimension of the energy union and constitutes the most ambitious contribution to the international climate change negotiations with a view to a binding climate change agreement at cop 21 of the unfccc, paris, december 2015. i support a multidimensional approach to climate and energy policies for 2030, based on mutually reinforcing, coordinated and coherent targets on greenhouse gas emission reductions, renewable energy sources and energy efficiency. i consider that a transparent, open, robust and inclusive governance system for 2030 is crucial to ensure that the objectives are implemented in a transparent and democratic way, ensuring regular information exchange, reporting and ensuring the full participation of the ep through the ordinary legislative procedure.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the commission must step up its research efforts on better use of europe's energy resources and environmental mitigation, with a view to sustainable economic growth, job creation, industrial competitiveness and, in particular, meeting the eu's long-term climate and energy objectives.
in writing. ‒ the two initiative reports ‘towards a european energy union’ and ‘achieving 10% electricity interconnection’ present important elements for creating a more secure, sustainable and competitive energy market. creating a fund for modernisation, additional measures to protect consumers, and supporting regional cooperation projects between the operators of distribution networks for electricity and gas are important goals. given the current context regarding our dependence on energy from external factors, achieving a fully integrated internal market, security of supply, energy efficiency and optimal use of the energy resources of the european union, as well as ensuring support for research and innovation would maximise the benefits for new industries and for new technologies, while ensuring protection and support for labour and for traditional industries.
in writing. ‒ the energy union is of paramount importance for european citizens, for european industry and for the creation of new jobs, especially in the renewable energy sector. i voted for the report as a whole, given the importance of the substance of this report. i voted for amendment no 59 because i believe that the use of hydraulic fracturing has serious consequences for the environment and human health. i opposed amendment no 65 because raising the targets for the 2030 climate and energy targets is impossible for many member states to achieve.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report regarding the creation of a resilient energy union with a forward-looking climate change policy based on a transition towards a sustainable, forward-looking energy system with energy efficiency, renewable energy and best use of europe’s energy resources.
in writing. ‒ the energy union is one of the most ambitious undertakings of the eu. it is not a single piece of legislation, but an ongoing project that in the short to medium term will see the roll-out of directives, regulations, strategies and cooperation procedures on energy issues between member states. the aim is to create an integrated system that will make energy more secure, affordable and climate-friendly for european citizens and businesses. in this context, the european parliament presented its proposal on how to set the energy union in motion. parliament’s report tackles complex issues such as technological choices, compatibility with climate objectives, diversification of energy resources and the governance of the energy union. the report had my vote as i believe it presents a balanced and comprehensive set of recommendations that the commission and the member states should follow, if the energy union is to deliver on its promises.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report regarding european energy policy that should ensure the functioning of the energy market, promote energy efficiency and savings and the development of renewable energy, ensure security of energy supply and promote the interconnection of energy networks.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report in support of one of the most important policies of the european union, namely energy policy, which aims to ensure the security of energy supply, promote energy efficiency, energy saving and the development of renewable energy, and promote the interconnectivity of energy networks, as the energy mix of the member states is still very diversified. it is clear that ensuring a more economically and physically integrated single energy market could lead to significant gains for member states. in this regard, as suggested in the document, member states should support the development of well-integrated and competitive regional electricity and gas markets, ensuring the adequacy and flexibility of the energy system and covering all parts of the union. i also welcome the report's proposal to take account of the development of the long-term energy strategy, with a view to the target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 80-95% by 2050.
in writing. ‒ the european union is one of the world's largest energy-consuming actors. for this reason, member states are constantly looking for new energy sources with the highest possible efficiency. this objective can be better achieved within a european energy union, which provides a framework for the coordination of member states' energy policies. the european commission's strategy for the energy union is based on the five dimensions of energy security, the integrated common energy market, energy efficiency, decarbonisation of the economy and research and innovation. while diversification of sources is imperative for energy security, in terms of energy efficiency and decarbonisation of the economy, more ambitious renewable energy targets and the gradual reduction of the use of polluting fuels should be considered. particular attention should be paid to research and innovation in this area, because we need the best solutions to support our citizens. the completion of an integrated european energy common market will create the framework for competitive and favourable prices for both small and large consumers, to the benefit of us all.
in writing. ‒ the european union is currently the world's leading energy importer, importing 53% of the energy it consumes, at an annual cost of around €400 billion. old energy infrastructures, weak integration of energy markets, lack of coordination of national energy policies generally lead to consumers and businesses not having a wide range of options or lower prices. the commission also found that the chinese exporting producers were not able to obtain sufficient spare capacity to meet the demand for electricity from the union industry. in addition to uncompetitive energy prices and extremely high dependence on third country suppliers, climate change is threatening the sustainability of the european energy system. improving energy interconnections between member states and modernising infrastructure would help to limit energy dependency and the risk of supply disruptions. moreover, the construction of a common energy market would facilitate access to energy markets across national borders. this would ensure secure and sustainable energy sources and affordable prices for eu citizens and businesses. i therefore voted in favour of the report entitled 'towards a european energy union'.
in writing. ‒ the report on the preparation of europe's electricity network for 2020 underlines the importance of a forward-looking policy, in which the union commits to increasing electricity interconnection to 10% by 2020. this is a valuable objective, setting a safe and sustainable direction for the electricity system. at present, 12 member states, mainly located at the periphery of the union, remain below the 10% interconnection target and are isolated from the internal electricity market. i voted in favour of this report because a concerted effort is needed to support member states whose low level of connectivity prevents the completion of the internal market in electricity from meeting this objective. as a result, a diligent determination to achieve the set objectives and intensified work in the groups advised on this issue is needed.
in writing. ‒ the 10% electricity interconnection target, first set in 2002 on the basis of the electricity generation capacity then existing, is to be achieved by 2020. the 10% target does not reflect the quantity of electricity transferred between countries, nor its quality, such as the availability of existing interconnection infrastructure or existing national infrastructure between interconnections. there are still 12 member states, mainly located in the eu's peripheral regions, which still remain below the 10% threshold and are therefore heavily isolated from the internal electricity market. i support the ep's motion for a resolution because i believe that renewable energy, energy efficiency and a sustainable energy mix that leads to energy savings and leads to an internal energy market that allows the free flow of energy are important means for a stable, independent, secure, transparent, inclusive and competitive energy system in the eu, which generates quality jobs in a sustainable, future-oriented economy. consider the creation of such a system and the elimination of energy islands as a major political priority of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i support the need to determine a future electricity interconnection target based on the eu's long-term climate objectives, as well as a sustainable energy system to which the european union aspires.
in writing. ‒ this report is in response to a commission communication describing measures needed to meet the agreed target to ensure all member states have in place sufficient electricity interconnectors with neighbouring countries with capacity to export/import at least 10% of their electricity generation capacity. it was a target originally set by eu heads of state and government in 2002 and should be reached by 2020. some eight member states are still to meet the target. we need strong political support and new measures to ensure europe’s electricity network is properly connected in order to avoid member states being isolated, ensure a true internal energy market as part of the energy union and bring down the costs of integrating renewable energy into the grid.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report regarding electricity interconnection, which is one of the key preconditions for completing an integrated internal electricity market, which will help to improve the eu’s geopolitical position through greater energy security and independence and to achieve our climate objectives, including the eu’s aim to be the leader in renewables.
in writing. ‒ an interconnected european electricity system would bring electricity prices down, reduce productivity losses in the commercial and industrial sectors and stimulate the growth of the european renewable energy industry. for these reasons, the european council established that member states should reach an electricity interconnection target of at least 10% of their installed capacity with their eu neighbours. in light of this goal, the european parliament drafted a report that highlights a list of issues that are crucial for the achievement of this target. these refer to the need for a faster permitting process for high voltage lines, better targeted investment and improved member state cooperation at regional level. i do believe this report has the right focus and therefore my vote was in favour.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report on the strategy to achieve the 10% electricity interconnection target and improving the functioning of the internal electricity market in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that improving the functioning of the eu's internal electricity market and achieving the 10% electricity interconnection target must be one of the priorities of the european community in the coming period. in this respect, as the document suggests, the commission should encourage investment in the best available technologies which, although they may be more costly, offer considerable financial benefits in the long term. i also welcome the report's proposal to propose to the european commission to make every effort to avoid coupling at the level of a group of member states and to promote eu-wide coupling, which includes all member states and their neighbours, in particular countries participating in the european neighbourhood policy (enp).
in writing. ‒ we cannot talk about energy security in the current geopolitical context in the eastern part of the european union without the member states reaching the 10% electricity interconnection target. we need serious investment projects both in achieving this target by 2020 and moving towards 15% by 2030, and in energy storage infrastructure and facilities until the level of interconnectivity and thus market integration is high enough. in economic terms, an adequate level of interconnection translates into savings of up to eur 40 billion per year by 2030, and the benefits will be felt by large consumers and households alike. we are talking about an energy union, but without exploiting the opportunities for developing cross-border energy markets, we will remain at the current stage of fragmentation. moreover, we will fail to take advantage of the energy resources specific to each member state and continue to pay import bills that entail high energy prices for industry and individual consumers.
in writing. ‒ energy efficiency can lead to energy savings, leading to an internal energy market that allows the free flow of energy. these are important means for a european energy system that becomes more stable, independent and competitive and that would create high-quality jobs. one of the most important aspects of the report is that investment in the necessary interconnection projects, which have a high pan-european significance, could reach eur 150 billion by 2030, underlining that electricity prices could be reduced by at least eur 2/mwh and europe could meet part of its energy needs from renewable energy sources. the report underlines, inter alia, that central and south-eastern europe has a vast renewable resource potential that is largely untapped. i voted in favour of this report because cooperation and coordination on long-term planning and construction of regional grid infrastructure is needed, given that the dependence on energy imports, especially from the baltic region, which is still synchronised with the russian electricity system, needs to be significantly reduced.
in writing. ‒ the progress microfinance facility was created to give europe's socially and financially disadvantaged people the chance to build a decent life. this instrument has a social policy dimension and facilitates access to microcredit for the establishment and support of micro-enterprises, by granting more loans to microcredit providers participating in the programme in the eu. the effects of granting these microcredits are reflected in the fight against poverty and also in the reintegration into the labour market. moreover, progress has a positive impact on achieving the eu's employment and social policy objectives under the eu 2020 strategy by supporting vocational guidance and training programmes, unlocking entrepreneurial potential and encouraging the creation of micro-enterprises. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that progress is a valuable and effective tool for supporting disadvantaged groups and for promoting entrepreneurship, sme creation and the implementation of innovative ideas that bring added value to the community.
in writing. ‒ i argue that the european commission needs to focus its efforts on improving access to microfinance for potentially excluded customers such as migrants, refugees, long-term unemployed, young people, low-income people, low-skilled workers and people with disabilities who currently do not benefit enough from the instrument.
in writing. ‒ i believe we have to stress the importance of micro-financing in general and for vulnerable groups in particular as well as the importance of good conduct on the part of microcredit providers, sound data collection and non-financial support for beneficiaries. i would like to underline the importance of the facility, especially in times of crisis, in its role of enabling unemployed and disadvantaged people to have access to financing, and to emphasise that given the current migration and asylum crisis in particular, micro-financing can act as an important support for refugees and migrants entering the eu labour market. micro-financing is not only an economic but first and foremost a social policy instrument. due to its focus on vulnerable groups with difficult access to financing and the labour market it contributes to reducing unemployment and social exclusion. the provision of microcredits must follow the rules of good conduct and be complemented by non-financial support for beneficiaries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report that will implement a social policy instrument with which to give people in difficult social situations a chance.
in writing. ‒ in 2010 the european union created the progress microfinance facility, with total funding of eur 205 million, the aim being to give socially and financially disadvantaged people in europe a chance to build a decent life. i have voted for this report that will implement the european progress microfinance facility.
in writing. ‒ microfinance contributes directly to poverty reduction and to restoring efficiency and balance in poor communities in the eu. i support this principle, provided that it respects the principles laid down in the europe 2020 strategy. the criteria to be followed in applying the european microfinance instrument must be primarily social. it is therefore imperative to further increase the rate of microfinance support to the social economy. last but not least, i appreciate that, for the next period, access for smes, especially those run by young people or women, must be easier and more friendly. it should be borne in mind that, up to now, most eif funding applications have not been approved by the commission. excessive bureaucracy is just one of the reasons why the road from idea to funding is so long and arduous. our duty is to facilitate young people's access to finance and help create business incubators within communities, so that they can break out of the vicious circle of economic underperformance. i add that the tourism sector could be better represented in the financing instruments and encouraged to develop.
in writing. ‒ the objective of the microfinance facility is to improve the conditions for obtaining loans and to facilitate financing for people who want to open or develop their own micro-enterprise, including to carry out an independent activity, and who would otherwise not be eligible. this instrument has been used in the past in 22 member states. thus, 60% of the beneficiaries were either unemployed or inactive at the time of applying for the microcredit, and 36% of the registered entrepreneurs supported by the loans were women. the general objective of the facility is to provide 46 000 microcredits by 2020, representing approximately eur 500 million. the mobilisation of such an instrument is of particular importance in times of financial crisis, as it allows for the creation of new businesses, promotes employment and guarantees access to finance for the unemployed and disadvantaged. moreover, in the current context of the migration and asylum crisis, microfinance can be an essential support for migrants and refugees entering the eu labour market. i therefore voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the european progress microfinance facility.
in writing. ‒ the 2013 reform of the common fisheries policy (cfp) included among its objectives the achievement of maximum sustainable yield, applying an ecosystem approach. the main instruments for achieving these objectives are technical measures and multiannual plans. however, despite the benefits of these two instruments, little progress has been made since 2009. the multiannual plans encountered an interinstitutional deadlock and the technical measures were lacking in legislation. the new common fisheries policy brings an improvement to these two instruments. the technical measures are thus based on three geographically distinct sets of measures which are transposed into specific sets of rules, and the multiannual plans aim at managing the main species of interest for fishing, integrating concrete measures to implement them. given the importance of these instruments in the common fisheries policy, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the new cfp framework regulation on technical measures needs to be formulated in a clear manner, which will require a significant effort of clarification.
in writing. ‒ technical measures and multiannual plans are essential instruments to achieve the objectives of the 2013 cfp reform. the revised technical measures regulation must ensure clarity and legal certainty. it should seek to improve the conservation and sustainable exploitation of stocks and implement the ecosystem-based approach to fisheries management in a way that is consistent with the socio-economic viability of the fisheries sector. it is important to highlight the positive aspects of ending the wasteful practice of discarding as well as available emff support. i believe we must support strongly the call for a solid scientific approach to improving the conservation and sustainable exploitation of stocks, minimising the impact on the marine environment, fighting iuu fishing, supporting fishermen, in particular traditional sustainable fishing practices and small-scale fishing, training, innovation, research, involvement of all relevant stakeholders in the decision-making, and regular re-evaluation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report that will ensure the implementation of the common fisheries policy objectives.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report regarding the implementation of a new common fisheries policy including necessary technical measures and multi annual plans.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the mato report on the new cfp: the structure of technical measures and multiannual plans. although a new cfp was created in 2013, progress on conservation has been lagging so far. the technical measures are heterogeneous and inconsistent, in particular because they were adopted through different legislative procedures and were in response to very different motivations. in the future, legislators must ensure that technical measures are simple and clear, so that they can be easily understood by fishermen. it is also necessary to find a solution as soon as possible to move forward with the multiannual plans. it is also essential that fishermen are consulted at every step in the revision and implementation of the legislation.
in writing. ‒ the european union gives fisheries a prominent place in its major policies. in 2013, the common fisheries policy was reformed to establish maximum sustainable yield using an ecosystem approach. the main instruments through which the objectives of the new policy can be achieved are technical measures and multiannual plans as conservation measures. however, little progress has been made in implementing these instruments to date, due to the interinstitutional deadlock. in this context, it is necessary to apply without delay the measures required by the reformed system, such as the avoidance of bycatch of juvenile fish and other by-catches, the conservation and sustainable exploitation of existing stocks, the minimisation of the impact on the marine environment, the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, the support of traditional fisheries, the support of research and innovation in the field, the involvement of all relevant decision-makers and the periodic reassessment of the policy. the implementation of these measures will have a direct effect on the ability to continue fishing in the future, by allowing the necessary fish stocks to be reproduced and avoiding the depletion of these important marine resources. for these reasons, i consider that the present report should be adopted in order to clarify the rules in this area.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the decision adopted on the european border and coast guard package (2015/2961(rsp)).
madam president, the inability of overwhelmed frontline member states to control the unprecedented flows of migrants themselves and consequently to safeguard the array of open internal borders clearly points to the design shortcomings of schengen’s external border control system. although the schengen borders code recommends member states to request help from the eu in case of serious deficiencies, the agency foreseen to provide such help was conceived to be a little more than a paper tiger, as has been pointed out a few times. this was because member states were too reluctant to give frontex the actual power that could have allowed it to step in when a national government was not able to fulfil its control duties. the situation today in europe calls for a strengthened border control agency that can live up to its name: one that can protect frontiers, can ensure the orderly identification and registration of migrants and that can provide the support they need.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr jadot, i agree with you completely, we must congratulate france and the french foreign minister on this success. at the same time, i would like to ask you whether you believe that the restrictive measures, which are rather weak, will finally give us results. indeed, if the reviews take place every five years, it means that many questions can arise in the interim.
question asked in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure. madam president, it is clear to me and, i think, to all my colleagues: global warming concerns us all, regardless of our political colour and political preferences. mr president, you said, among other things, that you had a success in paris and i agree with what you said. do you think that, simply because the word 'decarbonisation' is missing, the indicators and targets we have set ourselves cannot be met?
question asked in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure. i honestly didn't understand what the euro had to do with carbon emissions, but you made a statement: you said that what happened in paris actually saved the politicians. can you explain what that means? i think what happened in paris is a need, and everyone here, regardless of political choice, has to support the framing of climate change indicators. so what do you mean by "the politicians were saved"?
mr president, the paris agreement, the first ever binding global climate deal, is a testament to the strong movement that climate activists from all over the world have built after the failed copenhagen summit of 2009. i would like to express my thanks for the work of all the committed people who made this deal possible and, especially, the representative of the commission for forging a strong alliance and france for brokering an outcome that surpassed the expectations of many. an unprecedented political recognition of the risk of climate change, the agreement is a new source of hope and optimism, sending investors and business a clear signal that it is worth investing in the transition to renewable energy. i am hopeful that we may use this strong foundation to build a cleaner and safer future for our planet.
in writing. i would like to welcome the paris agreement and the commitment of all states to this fight against climate change. it has been said many times these days that this agreement is a historic moment. we are indeed talking about an important moment for the blue planet, for our health, but now we must also act on these goals and review the way we produce and consume energy. the european union must maintain its leadership for a climate-neutral world, for a zero-emission economy.
it's a trick question. colleague, have you heard about what's happening in china? what happens to the tibetan minority or the uighurs or the falun gong? how can you say that it's better there than at your place or even in europe?
mr president, i always speak after nightmarish speeches like the ones we have just heard, and that is not easy. i would like to stress the plight of the tibetans because a few days ago we celebrated the international day of human rights, but they had nothing to celebrate because their rights and freedoms are constantly violated. mr belder's report takes the right approach, openly denouncing the serious deterioration of human rights in tibet and calling for the resumption of negotiations between the chinese government and the dalai lama. i would like to go further today and say that in order to put an end to the blatant violations of tibetan rights, torture and arbitrary detention, it is time to hold china accountable. we must engage china publicly on the tibet issue, while exerting constant pressure at the highest political level. the union and its member states must speak with one voice to send the same message to china.
mr president, this is a very important report and i am glad that a lot has been done in order to improve the original text. only now does the text reflect the strategic dimension of our relations with china. the eu and china are different from many points of view; they will never agree on everything, but they remain fundamental reciprocal partners nonetheless. we know, as china knows, that there is an absolute need for our cooperation to succeed in common challenges. i could mention climate change and sustainable development – as cop21 has just ended in paris – and the position, agreed by the eu and china at the end of june this year, certainly played an important role. i could also mention security, defence and counter-terrorism, which are today more important than ever and require all actors to cooperate, or development aid which is related to the migration crisis we are confronted with. we know how important china’s investments in europe are in relaunching the economy, and there is also a huge market for european companies wanting to enlarge their perspectives and their businesses in china. the bilateral investment agreement needs to be put in place as soon as possible. it is good news that eight rounds of negotiations have been successfully concluded. on the other hand, we have to constantly build and rebuild the one china policy, so we need to be coherent. i find it inappropriate that the report refers to the negotiations on a bilateral investment agreement with taiwan. finally, i welcome the references to the importance of building synergies between china’s ‘one belt, one road’ initiative and the juncker investment plan, in which china has already shown an interest.
mr president, over the past twenty years, the people's republic of china has had sustained economic growth, and in that time the realities of the world economy have changed. so now is the time to rethink a european union relationship with china, but also for bilateral agreements between member states and china. i think there is a mutual interest in chinese capital in the european union now. china does have its troubling chapters, but it also has to take into account the global context, highlighting the beneficial rise of china-us relations, but also the china-brazil relationship. i would like to return to the importance of this resolution and stress that this partnership must be to the benefit of all the member states of the union. rethinking economic relations with china should not threaten the security of european capitals, nor should it favour certain countries, but rather come to their aid where there are difficulties that's why we are a union of nations. in this context, i believe that now is the time to start renegotiating a deeper economic relationship, on new bases and criteria, aimed at identifying ways in which investments from china can be integrated into europe's realities in the medium and long term.
member of the commission. thank you for giving me the opportunity to respond to the comments. i want to wish mrs collins well. i hope that after a day of work which has probably again been divided into two shifts, she will recover quickly. what i would like to point out again is that there is a commitment, a commitment from the juncker commission to deliver on this dossier. they promised a review. in the end, it will mean a revision of both the social security coordination regulations and the posting directive, and i can assure you that we will deliver. i will be very keen to do so myself, as you know. but i will also do so with the college as a whole. we want to achieve, in the end, legally secure rules, fair rules that are enforceable and where those who have to do the inspection can also ensure effective enforcement. those are the three main points. i would like to say something specifically about the enforcement directive: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the enforcement directive, ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to get to that, it is not being reopened. the enforcement directive was voted on after lengthy negotiations here in this house. we completed that process in may 2014 after lengthy negotiations between the council and the european parliament. that directive is what it is, it remains what it is and it must be transposed accordingly by each member state. i have already asked my services to keep a close eye on this and i ask in every bilateral contact and also at epsco, at the social affairs council, that each and every minister and government do their utmost to ensure timely and high-quality transposition. but we must ensure that enforcement can also be effective and we see that there are still gaps. not in the enforcement directive, but in other parts of the mobility legislation, we will look at that and fill in those gaps. as for the secondment directive, we'll open it. we're going to do a target review there. we have decided to revise it anyway, because otherwise we cannot comply with the principle of equal pay for equal work, and we think that is a fair rule. we think that rule should be made. someone here said: we have that in other legislation, why can't we have that here? we will make sure that the way we introduce that rule provides sufficient legal certainty to avoid it becoming a source of a great many difficulties which then have to be fought out in courts and tribunals. we want the most legally secure rule possible. we have worked on this and i hope we can present it to you shortly. this is a matter of fairness. as regards the centre: someone asked for a monitoring center, an observation center to track the mobility. well, i can refer you to the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions, which is based in dublin. it follows these matters closely, has regularly carried out studies and can give a good picture of the mobility flows in europe. a question was also raised about the interests of companies. we must take that into account. this is a situation in which both firms and employees and the service market are involved. we are concerned about the two principles on which we based the posting of workers at the time, and which we drew up in the 1990s. that was a double concern: ensure a level playing field between companies in the service sector and provide social protection for people posted to other member states in the context of the provision of services. that is our double concern and we will be looking at each of those aspects. i have of course taken note of the letters from, among others, the employers' association you cite, madam president. i take note of all the letters and try to read everything that comes in. i usually do that thoroughly, too. but of course we have to form an opinion afterwards, we have to make sure that we put together a package which we ourselves are convinced is the best we can put together. and that's the way we're going to go. with all due respect to the letters we receive, we cannot always give a positive answer to every letter or to every part of a letter we receive. the concern i feel in this parliament is a concern i share with you. we must move towards a balanced package that serves the people, the citizens of each of the 28 member states. we'll work on that, too. we are going to do so with an attitude which promotes mobility. we are convinced that mobility is a good thing for the european union, that it gives citizens additional opportunities if certain conditions are met. we will therefore ensure that this mobility is carried out in a fair manner, that there are no abuses. we must prevent abuses, but we must also provide opportunities for mobility, for the free movement of people, of workers and of services, because this is what ultimately benefits us. so we're going to look at that legislation, we're going to make changes. but again, also to ensure balance, that is to say, to look at all the member states. ensure that rules are legally secure, clear, fair and enforceable and that those responsible for enforcing and inspecting them have sufficient tools to ensure proper enforcement. i look forward to getting this package to you soon. once this package is through the college, i look forward to continuing the debate with you on the basis of very concrete proposals. i'm sure we can still have a useful exchange of ideas. we're gonna do this the grown-up way. i am going to learn a lot from you and we are going to have good discussions and make sure that we get the best package possible and i feel that the spirit of cooperation is there. i'm willing to do that.
in writing. one of the benefits of the european single market, labour mobility is the main condition for economic growth and reducing unemployment. both occupational and demographic mobility play a central role in sustainable and balanced development. member states' economies need to show more flexibility to overcome the bottlenecks that stand in the way of employment. moreover, the continuous transformations in the world economy require improving the capacity to adapt to a competitive global economy. the average unemployment rate in europe is close to 10% and, more seriously, youth unemployment is at alarming levels, with a quarter of young europeans looking for work. on the other hand, paradoxically, there are over two million unfilled jobs in the eu. however, european citizens are less mobile, perhaps due to the diversity of national economies, language barriers and, not least, legal uncertainties. we have an obligation to ensure that workers' rights are fully respected and to provide them with effective tools to use in court when they are violated.
in writing. we want a social europe and we want ec directives to reinforce this principle. the objective of 'equal pay for work of equal value' and measures to eliminate social dumping are lagging behind. so far, delay is the only solution put forward by the european commission. i appreciate the communication, but we need transparency and, at the same time, more action. emigration directly affects romania. there are millions of romanians living, studying, working and being active members of communities in other member states. i would love for these citizens to return home at some point and contribute to romania's goals of becoming a stronger state, but the principle of free movement of labour dictates that these romanians are protected as european citizens and that their choices are respected, whether we like it or not. so, regardless of their level of education, regardless of their country of origin, regardless of their religion and ethnicity, every european citizen must feel protected by the mobility package and at this point have nothing to rely on but the promises of the european commission. we are waiting for these promises to become reality, and we have been waiting for this for some time.
in writing. i would like to welcome the fact that the draft directive pays particular attention to digital technologies. it is unnecessary to stress that the social integration of persons with disabilities in 21st century europe cannot be achieved anywhere without unhindered access to the internet. i would therefore like to draw attention to the fact that in many cases the accessibility of the union's own websites is not without obstacles. one example is erasmus, one of the most successful projects in the eu's history. the erasmus plus website does not currently have an accessible version, so that, while in principle people with disabilities would have the opportunity to participate in the programme, they already face obstacles to finding out about their existing opportunities. changing that is clearly not a matter of money, but of will. i suggest that, independently of the directive under discussion, the commission should address the problem as soon as possible and also establish an appropriate support system for disabled people, taking into account that these people have special needs which often impose significant additional costs on them and their families.
question asked in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure. mr weber, you are very authoritarian and you express yourself in a very repressed way, as if you want to impose your point of view on us. i ask you: you lead the largest group in the european parliament, do you think what president juncker has presented here is right? that citizens of the non-schengen countries bulgaria and romania have a different regime? are the member states treated equally in the european union? do you support romania's entry into schengen or not?
the question is "blue cardboard". mrs de sarnez, it was mr verhofstadt who proposed a european anti-terrorist agency. do you think that this is a good proposal and that we should finally implement it, given all the terrorist attacks that have taken place in europe?
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the european parliament's proposal for a decision to extend the mandate of the president of the european banking authority. given that the necessary steps and related to this proposal have been taken and the decision of the competent committee, econ, was to grant a further five-year mandate to the current president of the eba, andrea enria, i believe that it is necessary to have an affirmative stance and allow a natural continuation of the european banking authority's governance.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the proposal of the board of supervisors of the european banking authority (eba) of 8 september 2015 to extend the term of office of the chairperson of the eba by another five-year term (c8-0313/2015) and following the econ hearing, i support the extension of the term for andrea enria as chairperson of the eba.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the extension of the term of office of the chairperson of the european banking authority (eba).
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the the extension of the term of office of the chairperson of the european banking authority (eba).
in writing. ‒ i support the report on the extension of the mandate of the current president of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa), namely mr gabriel bernardino, because his reappointment as head of the authority gives the institution a continuous framework in terms of governance, with no possibility of syncope. eiopa's core responsibilities are to support the stability of the financial system, the transparency of financial markets and products, and the protection of insurance consumers and members and beneficiaries of private pension schemes.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the proposal of the board of supervisors of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) of 30 september 2015 to extend the term of office of the chairperson of the eiopa by another five-year term (c8-0314/2015) and following the econ hearing, i support the extension of the term of office of gabriel bernardino as chairperson of the eiopa.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the extension of the term of office of the chairperson of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa).
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the extension of the term of office of the chairperson of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa).
in writing. ‒ the extension of the mandate of the current chairman of the european securities and markets authority, steven maijoor, for another five years, following an evaluation by the competent committee, econ, must be supported to allow for continuity and to ensure efficiency in the functioning of this institution, which is why i voted in favour of this report. any change in the management of an institution may result in changes in the way it operates. esma is the european authority that strengthens coordination between national financial regulators and ensures the consistent application of eu financial law in the member states.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the proposal of the board of supervisors of the european securities and markets authority (esma) of 24 september 2015 to extend the term of office of the chairperson of the esma by another five-year term (c8-0315/2015) and following the econ hearing, i support the extension of the term of office of steven maijoor as chairperson of the esma.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the extension of the term of office of the chairperson of the european securities and markets authority (esma).
in writing. ‒ i have voted the extension of the term of office of the chairperson of the european securities and markets authority (esma).
in writing. ‒ the agreement on operational and strategic cooperation aims to support and strengthen the work of the competent authorities of the member states and their mutual cooperation in preventing and combating organised crime, terrorism and other serious forms of crime affecting two or more member states. it also involves the exchange of operational, strategic information, including personal data and classified information. in accordance with decision 2009/935/jha, bosnia and herzegovina is among the countries with which europol will conclude such operational and strategic cooperation agreements. i spoke in favour of the report on operational and strategic cooperation between bosnia and herzegovina and europol to increase effectiveness in preventing and combating serious crime, especially as bosnia and herzegovina is a potential candidate country and a close neighbour of the union with which the union has many links and exchanges.
in writing. ‒ i have voted according to the recommendation of the political group.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that will strengthen the means of exchanging personal data and classified information, and that will ultimately increase data protection in member states.
in writing. the european union supports cooperation with bosnia and herzegovina and the country's efforts to strengthen its internal institutions. one of the problems currently facing the entire western balkans region is the still high level of organised crime and illicit trafficking networks, as well as a predisposition to the use of their territories by international terrorist networks. the european union, through its specialised structure europol, can provide important assistance to the specialised structures of the bosnian state to combat these negative phenomena. the bosnian state may also actively engage in europol's actions to combat illicit networks operating in the region. however, the conclusion of an agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between europol and the bosnian authorities is necessary for the achievement and deepening of cooperation. this agreement is to incorporate rules on the exchange of personal data and classified information, with the protection of those personal data. the agreement will be subject to continuous evaluation by the european institutions to avoid leaks of information on personal data. the adoption of this agreement is a win for europol's work and deserves to be supported.
in writing. ‒ by mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), 108 redundant workers from pwa international in ireland and one of its suppliers will receive personalised help and services for their reintegration. the budget for this aid is eur 737 156, of which 60% will be the egf contribution, namely eur 442 293. pwa international's disposals have had a negative impact on the economy and labour markets in parts of dublin and the east region, with particularly negative effects on local areas where a large proportion of pwa international's workforce resides. with unemployment trending upwards in these regions and fewer and fewer opportunities in the maintenance, repair and overhaul sector and in the wider manufacturing sector, former pwa international workers face increased competition for jobs and an increased risk of long-term unemployment. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that measures to support redundant employees are absolutely necessary to integrate them into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ the application relates to 108 redundancies in pwa international ltd (pwai) (repair and installation of machinery equipment) in southern and eastern ireland. although the egaf threshold lies at 500 workers made redundant, this derogation from the threshold of 500 redundancies can be justified by the cumulative effect of three major closures in the maintenance repair and overhaul sector (mro) within the last years. the redundancies were caused by major structural changes in world trade patterns.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this report that will provide eur 442 293 from the european globalisation fund to help 108 workers made redundant in the aeronautical industry. the amount represents 60 % of the total costs of the proposed actions. actions such as guidance and career planning and development, egf training grants mechanisms and higher education programmes, are all at the disposal of the redundant workers who represent the main beneficiaries.
in writing. ‒ i have voted, as rapporteur, for this report that will mobilise the european globalisation fund in ireland where the aeronautical maintenance and repair industry has suffered several losses with the closing in the past years of lufthansa technik and sr technics.
in writing. ‒ the current report concerns the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund (eusf) for a total amount of eur 442 293 for the 108 workers made redundant in the pwa international ltd (pwai) operating in the region of southern and eastern ireland. the eusf aims to enable a rapid, efficient and flexible response to emergency situations; i therefore welcome the speedy evaluation period for this application, which is less than five months. i also welcome the measures taken by the irish government to use this application to provide the redundant workers with guidance and career planning and development, training and further education programmes, and time limited allowances. i view that as an important step to tackle the decline in the maintenance, repair and overhaul sector, which ireland has experienced over the past years. the eusf is an important legislative and budgetary instrument the union has available to provide additional support to workers across the union, who are suffering from the consequences of the global financial and economic crisis, and to assist their reintegration into the labour market. for this reason i voted in favour of this current report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the objection, under rule 106 of the rules of procedure, to the list of invasive alien species because i believe that there is a need for greater transparency in the choice of species to be included in the list proposed by the european commission. their inclusion is not based on a risk assessment and a standardised methodology, but rather on the political will of the member states. the commission's proposed list also does not address the issue of invasive alien species in a comprehensive manner, so as to protect local biodiversity and ecosystem services and to minimise and mitigate the economic and human health impacts that these species may have. in view of the criticisms from the competent national authorities, stakeholders and the general public, a point has been reached where the effectiveness of the ias regulation is called into question, with many of the most problematic invasive alien species not being included in the list, while some species that cannot have a significant negative impact on biodiversity, ecosystem services, human health or the economy have been eventually included.
in writing. ‒ invasive alien species are numerous and it is therefore important to ensure that priority is given to addressing the subset of invasive alien species considered to be of union concern. the identification of invasive alien species of union concern shall remain proportionate and focus on species whose inclusion on the union list would effectively prevent, minimise or mitigate the adverse impact of those species in a cost effective manner. the commission’s initial list has been criticised by several competent national authorities, stakeholders and the general public, to the extent that they are now seriously doubting the future effectiveness of the ias regulation, mainly because many of the most problematic invasive alien species are not listed, while some species incapable of causing a significant negative impact on biodiversity, ecosystem services, human health or the economy. i therefore supported the call on the commission to withdraw its draft implementing regulation and to submit a new draft to the responsible committee.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this motion for a resolution that will draft a new document containing the list of invasive alien species of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this motion for a resolution that calls for a submission of a new draft concerning the list of invasive alien species of the union.
in writing. ‒ alien invasive species are not new, but they are expected to increase in number and severity because of the trends in global trade and climate change. we do need legislation to help minimize negative environmental impacts, and this includes an authoritative list of species which could pose a threat. i cannot see why the commission has chosen to adopt the list of species before adopting the criteria by which that list is created. this is completely illogical. and not surprisingly, the absence of agreed criteria has resulted in a list which is highly disputed. i expect the commission to come forward with the necessary criteria and a revised list. this will help member states implement the legislation and protect against the damaging environmental effects of alien invasive species.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the resolution on objection under rule 106 of the rules of procedure: authorisation of genetically modified maize nk603xt25 because there were serious concerns at the commission level to answer questions about the use of glyphosate, which is likely to promote the development of cancer, in maize. as you can see, the genetically modified corn itself is not classified as hazardous to health, but the substances with which it is treated. the commission must find mechanisms to ensure that human health is not affected by the chemicals used in various agricultural crops, whether genetically modified or organic. the commission should ensure that all food or feed containing genetically modified organisms is appropriately labelled so that the consumer can make an informed decision whether or not to consume a genetically modified product. it is unacceptable to reject the cultivation of genetically modified cereals de facto while the countries of the european union import such products in bulk from other countries such as argentina. this creates inequalities between farmers in the european union and those in other countries.
in writing. ‒ considering the fact that there are still doubts on the effects of products containing genetically modified organisms, i believe that any implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of products containing genetically modified organisms should be suspended until a new regulation is adopted. gmo trade crosses borders, which means that a national ‘sales and use’ ban proposed by the commission could be impossible to enforce without reintroducing border checks on imports. in order to ensure a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, environment and consumer interests in relation to genetically modified food and feed, whilst ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market, i support the objection to the implementing act of the commission.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this motion for a resolution concerning the authorisation of placing on the market products containing or derived from gmo maize.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that underlines the importance of risk evaluation to human health and biodiversity, prior to the authorisation of genetically modified organisms (gmos) such as maize.
in writing. ‒ the continued political stalemate between the member states on gmos has already forced the commission to propose the part-renationalisation of gmo policy. yet widespread dissatisfaction with the gmo authorisation process remains. the whole procedure needs to be reviewed, as president juncker promised. until this is done, the lack of confidence in the system will only cause further controversy.
in writing. ‒ the eu-wide revenue losses due to corporate tax avoidance practices could amount to around €50-70 billion per year, which is the amount lost through profit shifting. these losses could amount to eur 160-190 million if special tax regimes, inefficiencies related to collection and other such activities are taken into account. losses related to the erosion of the tax base and the shifting of profits represent a threat to the smooth functioning of the internal market and to the credibility, efficiency and fairness of corporate tax systems within the union. a coordinated and differentiated approach at national level as well as at union and international level is necessary. in the absence of joint action, many member states will adopt unilateral national measures, which have often proved ineffective and insufficient. i voted in favour of this report because more attention and focus is needed on this sector by the competent institutions to combat tax evasion and only by applying the principles of transparency, coordination and convergence can we achieve this.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament decided in december 2014 to authorise the drafting of a legislative own initiative report ‘bringing transparency, coordination and convergence to corporate tax policies in the european union’. this decision was a direct follow-up to the luxleaks revelations by a consortium of journalists in november 2014, which revealed that many multi-national companies concluded secret deals with the authorities of luxembourg that allowed them to reduce their tax liability, in some cases to almost 1%, while creating little or no economic activity in that country. i supported the recommendation that will provide a new agenda for tax justice. more transparency, coordination and convergence are needed to fight tax fraud, tax avoidance and aggressive tax planning.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this report that will set out a list of measures that the commission might propose as legislative acts with regard to transparency, convergence and coordination.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that will create clear guidelines for country-by-country reporting, with the purpose of increasing transparency while maintaining data protection and competitive advantage for eu firms.
in writing. ‒ mismatches between tax systems create a pathway for tax avoidance by companies, especially multinationals. if we take into account the inefficiency of collection or special tax regimes, together with the profit transfer system, the budgetary losses can reach between eur 160 and 190 billion annually. simply put, we lose 110% of the eu budget every year because of tax evasion. i welcome the approach of the principles of transparency, convergence and transnational coordination. i took part in this vote with the intention of giving the commission the tools it needs to limit as far as possible the losses to national budgets caused by tax avoidance by large companies operating in the eu. i also appreciate the work of the taxe committee, which has succeeded in establishing a number of clear principles, including the introduction of a common corporate tax base. i fully agree that this base should be operational by the end of 2017 at the latest. it is irrational to react to the limitation of public funds for the investment and operation of national and european apparatuses, but at the same time not to make progress in increasing the quality of collection in the budgets that support these investments and institutions.
madam president, it is not an easy task for the eu to sort out the dilemma of how to best deal with china, the second largest economy in the world and its second largest trading partner. but china is also an authoritarian state responsible for serious breaches of fundamental rights, including the freedom of expression, association, assembly and religion. europe needs an approach in which the pursuit of its trade and investment interests does not go against the principles it claims to stand for. it should not ignore issues such as the persecution of buddhist monks and nuns, the ever-increasing number of self-immolations, the forceful resettlement of over 2 million tibetan nomads, the mistreatment of the uighur population, the demolition of christian churches or removal of their crosses, the forced disappearance of hundreds of human rights lawyers and so on. only by dealing with such matters can we build a credible and strong relationship with china; one that is in the interest of both the eu and the population of china.
in writing. ‒ this year marks 40 years since the start of diplomatic relations between the eu and china, which are extremely important for both sides in finding common answers to a range of global issues such as global security, the fight against terrorism, cyber security and climate change. we need to see china as a major trading partner for the union, with a huge, expanding market, but we need to react to the slippages in this country. although the chinese government recognises the importance and universality of human rights, it is unable to demonstrate concrete results in improving the human rights situation. it is unacceptable that in the chinese conception, socioeconomic rights should take precedence over individual civil and political rights. it is also of concern that china is currently the country that executes the most people and continues to carry out the death penalty in secret on thousands of people annually, without regard to minimum international standards on the use of the death penalty. i voted in favour of this report in the belief that the eu's involvement through the council and the commission can have positive results, achieving, through constructive dialogue, the transition of this country towards the rule of law and respect for human rights.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the 40th anniversary of diplomatic relations between the european union and china as a source of inspiration for strengthening the strategic partnership so necessary in a multipolar and globalised world, and i consider china to be an important international power and one of the eu's most important partners. i therefore believe that the two sides must promote the eu-china comprehensive strategic partnership over the next decade that will be beneficial for both the eu and china.
in writing. ‒ china is a major trading partner of the eu, with a huge and expanding market; the ongoing investment agreement negotiations represent one of the most important issues in eu-china bilateral economic and trade relations. i welcome the 40th anniversary of diplomatic relations between the eu and china as a source of inspiration to strengthen the strategic partnership, which is so necessary in a multipolar and globalised world, and to speed up the ongoing negotiations for a new partnership and cooperation agreement based on trust, transparency and respect for human rights. i strongly support the call for finding mutual answers to a range of global concerns and identifying common interests, such as global and regional security, counter-terrorism, the fight against organised crime, cybersecurity, weapons of mass destruction and nuclear non-proliferation, energy security, global financial and market regulation, climate change and sustainable development. i am especially worried about environmental degradation in china, which has taken on dramatic proportions and i believe that more urgent, strong and targeted government action is needed.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this report that will establish a new connectivity platform with the aim of creating a favourable environment for sustainable and interoperable cross-border infrastructure networks between eu countries and china.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that reiterates the key importance of a strategic partnership between eu and china in order to find mutual answers to global security, financial and market regulation, energy security and climate change, as well as sustainable development of a framework that can respond to bilateral concerns.
in writing. ‒ this report covers the relations between eu and china, which began 40 years ago, covering political, economic, environmental, social and human rights aspects. the report follows a constructive approach that highlights both china’s vigorous economic growth and international importance, and the deficiencies it has yet to overcome. initially, the report calls for enhanced coordination and cooperation between the eu and china in areas of strategic significance, such as security, climate change, sustainable development, market governance and regulation. the report also states the eu’s support for an open human rights dialogue between the eu and china based on mutual respect. the report also takes account of the tensions in the south china sea by asking all parties to avoid provocative actions that lead to escalations, and instead to favour peaceful settlements of disputes according to international laws and arbitration. china is a significant partner for the eu, and i believe the current report represents the importance of open and constructive relationships between the sides. i also believe that the current document can help defining the cooperation line for the eu with china; for this reason i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ currently, 250 million people are affected by humanitarian crises and over 60 million people are forcibly displaced. these are numbers that cannot leave us indifferent and that call for more and more humanitarian responses around the world. given that by 2050 one billion people are likely to be displaced as a result of climate change, concerted action is needed and there is a need to build trust and to expand cooperation between private sector groups, ngos, local authorities, international organisations and governments. i have spoken in favour of this report because, as the world's leading donor and key humanitarian actor, the eu has a responsibility to take a leading role in exploiting more efficient and effective means to meet the needs of people affected by conflict and disaster.
in writing. ‒ globally, humanitarian responses are increasingly needed as a result of the challenges posed by rapid population growth, demographic change, urbanisation, the increase in the number and severity of natural disasters, environmental degradation, desertification, climate change, long-term and simultaneous conflicts with regional impact, and resource scarcity, coupled with the consequences of poverty, migration, inequalities, forced displacement and vulnerability. the number of people in need has more than doubled since 2004, reaching over 100 million in 2015, and 250 million people are affected by humanitarian crises, while the number of forcibly displaced people has reached almost 60 million, of which 40 million are internally displaced, and over 50% of refugees worldwide are children. i support the ep motion for a resolution on the preparation of the world humanitarian summit (whs). the whs, convened for the first time by the un secretary-general, will take place in istanbul in may 2016. i believe it is imperative to ensure a stronger link between the humanitarian and development sectors and to refocus on prevention and anticipation measures, changing the current humanitarian-based approach.
in writing. ‒ the european union and its member states, as the main donors of humanitarian aid, are key policy-makers with operational experience at global level. the humanitarian system must meet the challenge of providing increased support to as many people as possible at higher costs. in view of the scale of the current crises and disasters, humanitarian aid funds are insufficient, despite the very high level of contributions from donors. in addition to the financial resource, consideration should be given to changing the way the humanitarian community operates in terms of planning, coordination and response capacity. the humanitarian summit must find the best ways to protect civilians, identify threats and monitor violations of human rights and international humanitarian law. the need to provide food, water, shelter, hygiene and medical treatment to those in need is of major importance in humanitarian aid, namely minimum humanitarian standards must be ensured and maintained during the intervention. the right to education should not be ignored, but on the contrary, it should be promoted and supported during protracted humanitarian crises, without which the future of children is threatened.
in writing. ‒ i fully support the rapporteur's position that the european union, as the leading donor and key global humanitarian actor, can generate the necessary leverage and also has a responsibility to take a leading role in exploring more efficient and effective means to meet the needs of people affected by conflict and disaster.
in writing. ‒ i strongly believe that the eu should assume leadership and play a pivotal role in the world humanitarian summit process, towards a strong outcome. the eu should consider the world humanitarian summit as an opportunity to build partnerships and find common ground on humanitarian principles and international standards, and to enhance cooperation and coordination of assistance. more cooperation and complementary is needed between humanitarian and development policies, which should go hand in hand with increased development aid and humanitarian funding. moreover, special protection has to be given to women, children and people with disabilities. specific protection should be provided to children and notably to the facilitation of their access to education during emergencies. i support more involvement and cooperation of the private sector, ngos, local authorities and international organisations in humanitarian actions and the building of partnerships with non-traditional donors.
in writing. ‒ the world is being faced with humanitarian crises, unprecedented both in their number, scale and persistence. i have voted in favour of this report that will continue to emphasise the essential role of the ngos in humanitarian action and to ensure that their views are taken into consideration throughout the process and reflected in the outcome.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that will instate an operational framework for the key stakeholders, the ngos and development communities, with the purpose of creating convergence between humanitarian aid and development policy, in order to reduce and manage future humanitarian risks.
in writing. ‒ the world we live in shows us that humanitarian challenges are constantly emerging. categories forced into a situation of risk or vulnerability by conflict, epidemic, food shortage or natural disaster are increasing. cooperation with the united nations to make humanitarian aid more effective is all the more valuable in this context. a global alliance of innovation for humanitarian purposes is an imperative for the coming period and the eu can be at the forefront of advocating such action. the eu remains the un's main donor and as such, as i have said many times, it must play a leading role in the un's humanitarian and public policies. this includes the formulation of a common and unified position of the member states with regard to the presence at the un. we have to assume that this report is not just about the refugee crisis. the way the eu treats this vulnerable group of displaced people also defines our real attitude towards the humanitarian phenomenon. i support this motion for a resolution and hope that this act will be doubled by firm eu action in the field of humanitarian aid restructuring.
in writing. ‒ approximately 160 000 redundancies occurred in the steel and related sectors. the european base metals industry is currently facing massive investment losses to third countries, which are caused by the comparatively higher level of energy prices and the cost of carbon dioxide emissions. on the other hand, there is a decline in demand in this sector, but also strong global competition from third countries that do not apply the same high standards and strict regulations as those in europe. the paradox is that the capacity reduction in the aluminium sector in europe is taking place against the backdrop of an increase in european demand for aluminium in recent years, which leads to an increase in imports. i support this report because a concrete position and a well-regulated framework are needed because otherwise the closure of factories will lead to the irreversible loss of technologies and technological skills as well as the loss of industrial workforce skills.
in writing. ‒ the steel sector is suffering from the worst peacetime crisis in its history, leading to a high dependence of the industrial production sector on imports from third countries and a loss of industrial technological skills, with a direct impact on millions of jobs (following the reduction of steel production capacities by over 40 million tonnes since 2008 and the loss of over 60 000 direct jobs and over 100 000 indirect jobs). the european base metals industry is facing massive investment losses to third countries, mainly due to the comparatively higher level of energy prices and the cost of carbon dioxide emissions. i support the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the development of a sustainable european base metals industry. i believe that the eu must provide for flexible and reactive trade defence means, adapted to the new global industrial realities, in which decisions are taken in a timely manner, given the possible multiplication of flows of materials and products, as well as information and services.
in writing. ‒ i believe that energy-intensive industries must continue their efforts to optimise recycling mechanisms and reduce co2 emissions, in order to ensure industrial competitiveness in the future and to meet the mandatory reduction targets set by the european union.
in writing. ‒ the haemorrhaging of skills and jobs in the european steel industry is the result of a slump in demand. there have been such significant adjustments in capacity that any upturn in european demand will give rise to an unprecedented trade deficit in europe that would engender dependency and the loss of industrial know-how and is bound to have a knock-on effect on the downstream automotive, construction and low-carbon technologies sectors. on the other hand, closures in the european aluminium industry are taking place at an alarming pace against a backdrop of growing european demand for aluminium in recent years, which has led to increases in imports. steel and aluminium are two prime examples of the difficulties faced by those working in such industries, which must continue to modernise in energy and environmental terms when this means following an investment policy which few can currently afford. thus, while climate change policy is in no way the root cause of the problems facing these industries, it may well be so in the future if the investment crisis continues and if no european industrial policy on raw materials and base metals is implemented.
in writing. ‒ the report highlights the importance of the base metals industry to the eu's internal market and that it influences a number of sectors, including the automotive, aerospace, construction and packaging sectors. all these sectors support hundreds of thousands of jobs and need to be supported. i voted in favour of the report in particular for the calls in the report for the need to support the eu steel industry, through investment and ensuring fair competition in the internal market in relation to non-european steel products entering the internal market. deindustrialization brings with it the disappearance of jobs and the increase of poverty.
in writing. ‒ the haemorrhaging of skills and jobs in the european steel industry is the result of a slump in demand, which in 2014 was 40 megatonnes below its 2007 levels. i have voted for this report that will equip the european union with flexible and responsive trade protection measures to address the new global industrial scenarios where decisions must be made increasingly swiftly in response to a potential snowballing of inflows of materials, products, information and services.
in writing. ‒ once the backbone of european industry, steel and aluminium plants are now being closed down all over the continent. rising energy prices, stiff and sometimes unfair global competition or excessive regulatory burdens have all contributed to a decrease in the competitiveness of the european base-metals industries in general. the parliament’s report cautions against the risk of a further escalation of this situation in terms of job losses or the indirect negative impacts on high added-value economic sectors such as the automotive industries. it is a problem that needs urgent solutions and as a result this initiative received my full support.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that will pursue the coordination of the carbon emissions allowance, reuse procedures of base metals, forward-looking investments with impact on health and safety, as well as the development of a circular economy, factors that are absolutely vital for europe’s economy.
in writing. the european steel and metal industry is in a difficult situation, due to a significant decline in demand in recent years, which affects both the workforce employed in the sector and other economic sectors such as machine building, building construction and low carbon technologies. the energy and environmental modernisation of these sectors requires an investment policy that few of the companies concerned can currently afford. the creation of the carbon market in 2005 was in line with the eu's strategy to combat climate change, but it created additional burdens for member states' economies. border adjustment can be the solution to avoid the abandonment of the fight against climate change by european sectors at risk of carbon leakage by promoting fair competition between european and non-european producers. this measure can also be applied on a temporary and flexible basis and carbon leakages can be prevented by taking the whole sector into account. border adjustment is the basis of a base metal economy where reducing emissions is linked to investing in reducing those emissions, which are thus profitable. the document before you can be an important step forward.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the development of a sustainable european base metals industry, as the european base metals industry is currently facing a significant drop in demand as well as strong global competition, mainly from third countries that do not apply the same high standards and strict regulations as in europe. in this respect, the european base metals industry needs to regain its global competitiveness and a first step in this direction would be the creation of a common energy market, as higher energy prices in europe significantly limit the competitiveness of this industry. in addition, there are numerous sectors that depend on this industry, such as automotive, aeronautics, energy production, construction and packaging. the eu thus needs to improve its competitiveness and maintain its independence in the base metals sector in order not to negatively affect the above-mentioned sectors. in this respect, i believe that the development of new energy-efficient products and new production processes is needed if the eu is to withstand increasingly fierce global competition.
in writing. ‒ the migration phenomenon of recent months has revealed the tendency of some countries to defend their borders to the fullest, which should not be viewed in a negative way unless there are facts that could be in contradiction with the eu's fundamental rights. in this context, hungary has responded to the wave of criticism from the european authorities and member states. i believe that the competent authorities should pay attention to the situation in hungary, but this attention should not go beyond the normal limits, given that there are other member states facing similar problems, which is why i voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ hungary worries us and not only on the issues of migration and border control management but also, more generally, on the rule of law and democracy. i strongly believe that we have to distinguish between orban’s actions and words and the hungarian people. our aim has to be to protect the hungarian citizens and not to penalise them for the severe infringements carried out by the prime minister.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the situation of hungarian legislation’s compatibility with eu asylum and borders acquis and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that reiterates the position expressed in the resolution of 10 june 2015 on the situation in hungary, by initiating an in-depth monitoring process regarding democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, in order to prevent a systemic threat.
in writing. ‒ it is regrettable that hungary, through its representatives, considers that the current interest justifies the repeated violation of article 2 teu. the reintroduction of the death penalty and the institutional attitude towards the phenomenon of migration are sufficiently serious reasons to determine a common and firm position on the part of the member states against the position of the prime minister of hungary, viktor orbán. i think that in the case of hungary, we are in a situation where the statements of ephemeral leaders affect the reputation of an entire people. viktor orbán's vision does not correspond to european principles, but i am sure it does not correspond to those of most hungarian citizens. we therefore need to think very carefully about the impact of an action by the european parliament or the european commission on the lives of the citizens of an eu member state, whether it is a state whose leaders do not respect the commitments made by the rest of the states.
the reporter. commissioner stylianides, i would first like to welcome you and the special representative for human rights, mr stavros lambrinidis, to the debate today on the report on human rights and democracy in the world and the union's policy on the matter. i strongly believe that interinstitutional dialogue is essential to enhance the effectiveness of external action to promote respect for human rights and democratic principles in the union in third countries. in this interinstitutional dialogue, but especially in the communication with citizens, the report that i wrote and negotiated with the other political groups is intended to explain parliament's view on how the european union promoted human rights and democracy in its external relations in 2014. i also took the opportunity to explain parliament's view on the steps the union should take to improve its foreign policy on human rights and democracy. in what follows i shall dwell on a few aspects of the report, a very comprehensive one, with more than thirty pages. one of the key messages of the report is that it is time to focus on implementing the european union's human rights and democracy policy. over the last four years, the union has developed a number of instruments to promote these values, inter alia in response to numerous calls by the european parliament. we now have a very good strategic framework that guides the european union's actions. a second action plan was adopted this year, which translates the strategic framework's priorities into concrete measures. the union regularly organises human rights dialogues with third countries, as well as political dialogues in which rights are addressed. the union has, again as a result of numerous requests by parliament, a very good special representative for human rights. the union has also developed country-specific strategies for promoting human rights, and delegations have set up focal points for the same issues. we have an enlargement policy that promotes rights, as does the recently revised neighbourhood policy. the time has come, i believe, to use all these instruments effectively to maximise their impact on human rights in various third countries. we must have the courage to fully embrace the objective set out in article 21 of the treaty, namely to place the defence of human rights at the heart of the union's external action. i have proposed in this report a number of possible courses of action. among them, i think it is essential to allocate sufficient resources to human rights and democracy policy. the resources can be used, inter alia, to support those who fight every day for the respect of democratic values and rights and principles in third countries. in this respect, i welcome the new support mechanism for human rights defenders working in risky contexts, announced a few days ago by commissioner mimica. a second key message i wanted to convey is that supporting and promoting democracy in external relations must not be a secondary issue in union policy. on the contrary, i believe that respect for democratic principles and human rights go hand in hand and can hardly be thought of separately. i also drew attention to the fact that, in order to truly promote democratic principles, the union cannot limit itself to observing elections in third countries, although this is certainly an important instrument for promoting democracy. in conclusion, i would like to return to the interinstitutional relations we have been talking about, as well as to communication with european citizens. i think it is important that the report that the commission draws up each year takes a more analytical approach and highlights the efforts in this area.
member of the commission.– mr president, it is a great honour for me to take the floor at this discussion on behalf of high representative federica mogherini, a discussion which coincides with the sakharov prize ceremony, an occasion that testifies to the strong commitment of this house to human rights and freedom of expression. as your report states at the outset, mr preda, human rights and democratic freedoms are increasingly under threat in many parts of the world. defending human rights is becoming an ever harder challenge for all of us, in particular, promoting and helping to protect a healthy space for civil society organisations. we are confronted with unprecedented global challenges, with instability and conflicts just beyond our borders, and with a humanitarian crisis even within our borders. terrorist attacks were brought into the centre of our cities, and they are posing an ever—growing challenge to our free and open societies. however, while the years ahead will continue to be challenging for the european union, our approach cannot change. we need more equality and more human rights, not less. to defeat terror, we surely need to improve law enforcement tools. but, at the same time, we need to work harder to secure inclusion. while we need to address conflicts at the roots of the immigration crisis, we also need to build inclusive societies and equality of rights. while receiving asylum seekers and migrants, freedom of expression remains the most powerful weapon against radicalisation and terrorism. mr preda, honourable members, your call for placing human rights and democracy at the heart of the eu external relations will not go unheard. the protection of human rights is, and will remain, one of the major priorities of our external action, and it is the foundation that defines all our relations with third countries. this is precisely the rationale of the eu’s second action plan on human rights and democracy, which the council adopted just five months ago. this new action plan shows the common will of the eu, not just of the institutions, but also of the 28 member states together: to continue and enhance their global efforts on defending and promoting human rights and on mainstreaming human rights into all eu policies. this includes development cooperation, migration, counterterrorism and trade. the action plan puts high on the agenda the promotion of gender equality also, women’s empowerment and women’s and girls’ rights. it will serve to measure coherence and coordination between our internal and external policies. overall, it outlines our priorities on human rights in external action and details our strategy for the years to come. the action plan gives a very special focus to empowering local actors and civil society organisations in an increasingly challenging landscape. we need civil society organisations to play an active role in the lives of their countries to the benefit of everyone. during the last years, efforts to bar, restrain, or control the work of civil society organisations have been frequent. restrictive laws have emerged, imposing unjustified and complicated procedures for the registration of associations, or restrictions on their funding, in particular from foreign sources. civil society organisations in our neighbourhood and beyond need our support more than ever. just two weeks ago, we devoted the yearly ngo forum, jointly organised by the eeas and civil society, to the issue of protecting and promoting the space of civil society. hundreds of ngos attended and federica mogherini addressed the closing session. she conveyed the relevance that the commission and the eu as a whole attach to the essential cooperation with civil society in the protection and promotion of human rights in the world, and within the european union. this was a first step in a long-term process of cooperation. the eu will continue engaging on this issue. of course, the action plan looks at a number of other priorities. this includes a number of topics that you recall in your report and which we have many times discussed together. for example, we will continue to work on a responsible trade policy, or on promoting the eu agenda on business and human rights. we also want to make social and economic rights increasingly part of our human rights policy. and last but not least, we will use the full range of the policy instruments we have at our disposal. in this context, let me thank you again for the great and extensive contribution of your report. regarding proposals, suggestions and constructive criticism: these are of great value to us. as you suggest, we are working on improving our human rights strategies, making the human rights dialogues and consultations more result-oriented, and assessing the implementation of the guidelines. as regards the annual report, we have already advanced in making it clearer, more analytical and user-friendly from next year. i understand that you are also working on enhancing the ep actions on human rights. i very much welcome, for example, your work on reviewing the guidelines for the ep interparliamentary delegations. it is very welcome. our work does not end, but begins, with the adoption of the action plan. putting it into practice will be a living process where all actors will make their contribution. in that regard, you are, of course, our privileged partners. our actions on human rights and democracy are mutually reinforcing. as just one example, i can mention the role members of parliament play as chief observers of election observation missions. together with you are the other eu institutions, our member states and our eu special representative stavros lambrinidis, who is sitting next to me and who is doing a great job. thank you, stavros. (applause) we all need to join forces and cooperate even further in pursuing the ambitious objectives of our action plan. despite the severe challenges ahead of us, i am sure that we can make further progress, always together.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development.– mr president, above all unity, i think, is very important for all of us. i welcome the final agreement reached on the opinion on the annual report of human rights and democracy in the world 2014. negotiations had been positive and enriching and i believe the opinion will support the work of our colleagues from other committees, especially from the committee on foreign affairs (afet). we made a strong connection between insisting on human rights, gender equality, good governance, peace and security, and the goal of eradicating poverty and inequalities as well as achieving the social development goals in the world. moreover, we recalled that cultural diversity cannot be invoked for infringing human rights which are guaranteed by international law. human rights must be at the core of our development agenda. we therefore stressed the need to ensure that the 2030 agenda for sustainable development is underpinned by the human rights-based approach. we mentioned the importance of the addis ababa action agenda. and we decided to strongly condemn, in the opinion, the use of harmful practices on women and the use of rape as a weapon of war. last but not least, we reminded the commission and member states that agreements concluded with developing countries must include binding clauses on human rights and that the commission must conduct systematic human rights impact assessments of trade and investment agreements. îl felicit pe raportor și pe toți cei care au contribuit la acest raport.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to start by congratulating the rapporteur and by recalling that mrs mogherini has stated that human rights and democracy will be a major priority for her mandate and a landmark in relations between the european union and third countries and civil society. so it created expectations and hopes about that. welcomes the adoption by the council of the 2014 annual report on human rights and democracy in the world and the new action plan for 2015-2019; however, i believe that the council's report should not only contain the results achieved but also the challenges faced by the european union in its efforts to promote democracy in third countries, thus identifying concrete actions that could be implemented in the coming years. events in recent years have demonstrated the need for a new approach, redefining priorities and introducing new working methods, as the one-off policy has not always delivered the expected results and the methods used have not always been the right ones. examples of the failure of this approach are in the states of north africa, where the effect has been devastating, but also in the eastern neighbourhood of the european union. we need to understand that we can be more effective, including from the perspective of measures to support human rights, if we approach this relationship with third countries on the basis of common interests, but at the same time taking into account what differentiates us. we therefore need an integrated approach, covering development, migration, trade policies, supporting third countries in developing administrative capacity for the rule of law, transparent and fair electoral processes and, not least, ensuring access to education, because education is the door through which values such as respect for human rights, tolerance and freedom can enter. education and universal values are the pillars on which modern civilization is built, and where these are lacking, extremism, intolerance and terrorism take their place.
i welcome the release of human rights activist leyla yunus from prison on 9 december, after being imprisoned for promoting human rights and criticizing the government. this is azerbaijan we're talking about. i encourage the azerbaijani government to follow this path and release the other journalists and human rights activists who are still in prison, including khadija ismailova. khadija ismailova is an investigative journalist and human rights defender who was arrested in 2014 and then sentenced this year to seven years in prison. i invited khadija ismailova to a public hearing on investigative journalism in the european parliament in 2013, but she was forbidden to leave azerbaijan by the government, so she could not attend. without a free press, there is no democracy, and politicians need to understand that they can be criticized. freedom of the press and freedom of journalists are not negotiable.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr cristian preda, on his work, on his balanced and substantive report. given that respect for human rights continues to be undermined and threatened worldwide, we, the european union, have a duty to engage actively at international level, including in obtaining the necessary and appropriate financial allocations, resources and support for the promotion of human rights. i will point out some major human rights violations that still require sustained international efforts to find effective ways and methods to address them. all states must be accountable, end impunity and bring to justice those responsible for genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes, including crimes involving violence - such as rape, sexual slavery, forced prostitution, enforced sterilisation - and these crimes must be recognised and condemned as crimes against humanity and war crimes.
member of the commission.– mr president, i would like to thank you for this very fruitful debate, and for your very productive and very constructive remarks and comments. i would like to again congratulate the rapporteur, mr preda, for his very comprehensive report. i cannot agree more that maximising our internal and external coherence is of vital importance. our credibility abroad as a champion of human rights depends on what we do here at home. if we do not guarantee the highest human rights standards in europe, our external action will also become weaker. in this process, the role of the european parliament is also vital. mainstreaming human rights into all our external policies is an ongoing process, and despite progress made so far, we must continue with our efforts. our new action plan is intended to go right in that direction. in this very strict time framework of only two minutes, i would like to say a few words about impunity. in our human rights dialogues and our country strategies, this is always systematically part of accountability. most importantly, that the european union is a strong supporter of the international criminal court, and this is very important. finally, let me once again express my deep appreciation for the very constructive cooperation with this house. together we can speak with one voice in upholding the universality of human rights and in supporting the democratic aspiration of our partners. of course, we look forward to the upcoming debates on human rights in this parliament.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank all the members for their speeches and comments. i was particularly pleased to see that many of them stressed the need for coherence between our foreign policy and the internal situation of the member states. at the same time, i was a little disappointed that some of our colleagues had started to enter into the debate on the internal politics of their member states on this basis or, as is also often the case, to criticise what is happening in certain member states. these are matters for another committee, the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. that is why we have drawn up this report, which is an analysis of rights as an instrument of foreign policy. in the droi committee we do not carry out an analysis which is the responsibility of the members of another committee. what better proof could there be than to look at this annual report on human rights just after the sakharov prize ceremony. this is a very good example of what we can do in our relations with that country. i would also point out, in view of the comments criticising the fact that the report does not deal with specific situations or countries, that it is not a geographical report but a thematic one. we discuss very specific countries and cases at each plenary session in strasbourg. it's good that our colleagues know that now. better late than never! finally, i am pleased with the remark made by my colleague mr tannock, who stressed that we have tried to be more rigorous in the definition of rights, because coherence, as mentioned by several of our colleagues, is precisely the prerequisite for intellectual coherence. if we relationalize everything, if we go in all directions, we cannot be consistent in our policies.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, in recent months, as we approach the 20th anniversary of the dayton agreements, almost everything has been said about the positive and negative aspects of this text and their practical development. we, in turn, wanted to mark this anniversary with a debate and a resolution: first, to commemorate in a solemn way the conclusion of a text which put an end to the most brutal conflict europe has known since the second world war; the second is to encourage bosnia and herzegovina to look to the future. we believe that there is no doubt about this future in europe. this is therefore an opportunity to encourage the authorities of bosnia and herzegovina, twenty years after dayton, to continue on the path of reforms in order to be able to submit a credible application for membership. firstly, this implies the implementation of the reform agenda and the socioeconomic measures contained therein, but also the adoption of the coordination mechanism for issues related to european integration. the second is constitutional reforms that will transform bosnia and herzegovina into a functioning democratic state. i would also like to mention a very worrying point which is likely to hamper this european future of bosnia-herzegovina. this is the referendum on the judiciary in the serb republic of bosnia. this represents a serious threat to the cohesion, sovereignty and integrity of the country. and as i said before, the country does not need such initiatives, which only distract from the socio-economic reforms underway. bosnia and herzegovina must remain focused on reforms. in other words, it must remain on the path to europe.
madam president, i listened very carefully to the debate and i would like to join those who said that the dayton peace agreement 20 years ago was a success. it ensured peace, it was a cushion between the different ethnicities. it is a bit naive to think that such an international agreement could contribute to ensuring the prosperity of a given region, that is really up to the citizens and the politicians there. it was also said that the situation today is not very comforting, that there is a huge rate of unemployment, especially among young people, a rather rising poverty rate overall, the region is not prosperous and there is also a lot of corruption. the european union can hardly actively resolve these issues for the citizens of bosnia and herzegovina. we can, in my view, offer a helping hand and offer them a clear, possible perspective, a clear, possible vision of future membership of the european union. i think that's the key. we should talk about how to support the reforms that have been repeated here, how to help especially the youngest generation, who if they were able to get a job, if they were able to function in some kind of peaceful coexistence could be the hope for the future of this region. here i personally think that the european union should have a primary interest, should support such reforms and changes in bosnia and herzegovina. i say this for myself, i say this for the czech republic. we welcome the fact that there is a growing desire in bosnia and herzegovina to apply for membership of the european union in the future and we therefore support the association agreement. i also think that in the future it will be necessary to negotiate with serbia itself to become a member of the european union in the future. in short, this area of the balkans should be our primary area of interest, we should support these countries' efforts to join the european union and help them with reforms. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
blue-card question.– mr pospíšil, we are talking about the 20th anniversary but, you know, the bosnia-herzegovina symphony is an unfinished symphony. it will be an unfinished business – and maybe you agree with me here – for as long as bosnian society is still divided along ethnic lines, divided between the institutions of the serbs and the institutions of the bosniaks and croats, and for as long as the federal institutions are so weak. how is this state going to have a european union future with this kind of situation?
the dayton agreement was created out of necessity. his main goal was to end ethnic bloodshed. it worked, but neither side was happy with it. it was a typical compromise. it has since become clear that the two entities operating in bosnia, the weak central government that binds them together, are not able to solve, and sometimes even cause, the problems. of course, the system established by the dayton agreement is not to blame for all the country's problems. it was his influence that made bosnia take its first steps towards the rule of law. but 20 years after dayton, it's time to revise the treaty. and the european union has a moral obligation to help bosnia in its commitment to democracy, and that's the main problem. it's about moral duty. there are eu member states where governments are creating ethnic tension. i just think of my country, romania. the moral obligation of the member states is to set an example for the first time in their own countries in the relationship between ethnic minorities and majorities.
madam president, i congratulate the rapporteur on this fairly balanced report. current legislation provides member states with a set of eight criteria on the basis of which they can decide whether to authorise arms exports. this instrument provides both the flexibility and the rigour needed to avoid the use of weapons against the civilian population or by terrorist organisations and totalitarian regimes. the beneficial effects of the eight criteria contained in the common position of the member states are reflected in france's salutary decision to reverse the export contract for mistral vessels to russia and to stop deliveries. it was a correct decision, motivated by russia's flagrant violations of international law. the arms export control procedure is an important aspect of the european union's foreign and defence policies and therefore needs to be appropriately integrated into the new european union foreign and security policy strategy, especially in view of the current challenges and risks to the security of europe. i would draw attention to the importance of practical cooperation between the member states, europol, eurojust and third countries. this cooperation should be complemented by working procedures on the monitoring of illicit arms trafficking by police forces together with border authorities. the exchange of information and good communication between databases always leads to the reduction and even elimination of these risks. we also need a common and coordinated european union approach to floating arsenals and we need to include in the common position a mechanism for automatically blocking arms export licences to countries against which a european embargo is being imposed.
madam president, the unprecedented spread of armed conflicts is a huge threat to stability and security and has created a less stable and less secure neighbourhood for the eu area. arms transfers to states in conflict are significantly contributing to these conflicts and this unstable situation. i therefore strongly support the report, which will allow a better regulation of arms exports. we have a key role in preventing irresponsible exports of arms to countries that violate human rights and fundamental freedoms, and regulating the international arms trade must be a global ambition. it is fundamental to support transparency and to promote adherence to the highest regional and international standards, such as the arms trade treaty and the eu common position on arms export control. the legally binding framework demonstrates the determination, or at least a first step towards determination, of eu member states to prevent the export of military technology and equipment that might be used for undesirable purposes such as internal repression or international aggression, as happened recently in ukraine, or contribute to regional instability. we therefore have to fully support its implementation in the nearest future.
in writing. i consider this motion for a resolution to be absolutely necessary for the strictest possible control of arms exports. the introduction of eu-wide judicial control of arms exports may be the solution to reduce the loss of life. the way in which this motion for a resolution raises the question of taking into account the export of innovative technologies for licensing purposes and their transfer to the category of dual-use materials and technologies, such as those in the field of robotics and software, is to be appreciated. the speed of technological development in this century means that, in addition to the illegal or illegal export of conventional weapons, robotics or the expansion of software capabilities make available to groups defined as aggressive whole series of civilian applications that can be used as assault weapons. furthermore, these technologies can easily become tools for collecting information to be used for terrorist purposes. in this context, the inclusion of these tools in the list of dual-use technologies in order to control their use much better becomes a necessity. i hope this resolution is just the first step in stopping the delivery of unlawful weapons or dual-use technologies to groups considered aggressive.
vice-president of the commission.– madam president, i am pleased to speak here in parliament today before the vote on concluding the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and vietnam, as well as on the protocol for croatia’s accession to the agreement. this agreement will provide a modern and comprehensive framework for the eu-vietnam relationship, which has deepened and broadened over the past few years. twenty-five years ago the then european community and vietnam established diplomatic relations. in these 25 years, our ties have grown from their humanitarian origins to a multifaceted partnership with trade and development at its core. the partnership and cooperation agreement, together with the free trade agreement concluded two weeks ago, will allow us to go even further. today’s debate is an opportunity to acknowledge vietnam’s role as a close partner for the european union in south—east asia and for our relations with asean in particular. as asean’s coordinator for relations with the european union, vietnam has provided valuable support in bringing our two regions closer together. in south—east asia, vietnam is one of the fastest growing economies today. social and economic progress in the last two decades has been impressive as millions have been lifted out of poverty. its foundations were laid in the late 1980s through an ambitious economic reform programme. today, the eu, in turn, is vietnam’s second largest trade partner, the largest development donor and one of vietnam’s largest foreign investors. vietnam is now entering a new phase of national development and aims to become an industrialised country by 2020. to do so it needs to move from a growth model based on low—cost labour to one based on innovation and productivity. this calls for major structural changes and continued investments in infrastructure and human capital. the european union wants a strong and prosperous vietnam, a vietnam that respects the rule of law and human rights. our persistent message to our vietnamese counterparts is that good governance, human rights and the rule of law are the driving force for development, that a free media and a free internet provide huge benefits for vietnam to succeed in the new knowledge-based economy and to meet the myriad of challenges that come with a modernising society, and that greater openness and opportunities for people to participate and actively engage with the institutions are needed to support vietnam’s vision of becoming an inclusive and modern society. it is therefore in vietnam’s best interests to honour its international commitments regarding human rights. let me be clear. the european union and vietnam enjoy a close and ever—expanding partnership but, as in any relationship, there are areas where we have differences. these are, first and foremost, in the critical area of human rights and mrs lochbihler’s report rightly places much emphasis on this. in this respect we noted with concern the arrest today, just one day after the eu-vietnam human rights dialogue, of mr nguyen van dai, a lawyer and human rights activist. we have expressed this clearly to our vietnamese partners. the partnership and cooperation agreement provides us with a much better basis to address issues such as the rule of law and human rights than the framework cooperation agreement of 1996. respect for human rights and democratic principles constitutes an essential element of the partnership and cooperation agreement, with a much broader and more comprehensive set of commitments when compared with the previous instrument. the rule of law features among the fundamental principles covered by article 1 of the agreement. let me assure you that these principles will guide us in our relations. the enhanced human rights dialogue that we agreed to establish in 2012 is the most visible evidence of our commitment here. the latest session was held just yesterday in hanoi. i trust that with the new partnership and cooperation agreement, and thanks to the strong ties between the european parliament and the national assembly of vietnam, we stand a better chance to support vietnam’s transition towards a more open society.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would first like to thank mrs lochbihler and the other fictitious rapporteurs for their good cooperation on this resolution. this cooperation and partnership agreement between the union and vietnam is a good example of the growing assertion of parliament's power, including in matters of foreign policy. parliament's approval is an important step towards ratification of the agreement, which we must of course support. vietnam is now an essential partner of the union. a closer relationship with china will not only give the eu privileged access to a dynamic market of over 90 million people, but also strengthen its strategic position in asia, while pursuing its goals of peace, the rule of law and democracy. i would also like to stress the conclusion of the negotiations on the free trade agreement with vietnam. however, it must not be forgotten that there are still many challenges to be met, including respect for human rights. the recommendations contained in the resolution will, i hope, help vietnam to implement the necessary reforms, such as respect for minority rights, the fight against corruption and the reform of the judicial system. throughout the work on this resolution, i have tried to find compromises with my colleagues in order to obtain a balanced text, which can be a tool to accompany the implementation of the partnership agreement. in this connection, mrs gill and i are proposing two amendments for tomorrow's vote, so that the text is legally correct. only through a resolution containing realistic and concrete proposals will parliament be able to play a decisive role in the development of relations between the european union and vietnam.
mr president, commissioner, the recent decision of the european patent office only creates a new obstacle for the little ones. the european patent office's patent right should not hinder innovation and should not create problems for smes, small producers. commissioner bieńkowska, you yourself, mr juncker, often talk to us about the importance of innovation, the need to support smes, but the words are not enough. the commission has an obligation to ensure that the opposite does not happen on the ground. you have the opportunity now, commissioner, to demonstrate that you understand this. it is not possible for a patent office, whether it is itself a patent office, to annul a regulation of the european parliament by a narrow interpretation. it is important to strike a balance between intellectual property regulations and the development of biotechnology. commissioner, the commission must give a very clear answer to parliament and to the producers in this field on this issue. do not let biotechnology development, competitiveness, innovation be blocked. please also take into account the speed of decision, commissioner. the producers can't wait months, even years. in conclusion, i wish you a merry christmas, but remember that your work also depends on the quality of people's lives.
on behalf of the epp group. mr. president, this is not the first time this year that we have discussed the maldives. i've done it before, to signal that things are going in a very bad direction in this country. since then, former president nasheed has been re-imprisoned, although for two months it was said that for medical reasons he could serve his sentence at home. it's a political condemnation, and that's the key issue, because once the state we're talking about started to function normally, everything was overturned by the long domination of one family. as my colleague kukan has suggested, i think we need to consider individual sanctions against those responsible for an unacceptable situation, the control of the judiciary, the blocking of the opposition, the imprisonment of those fighting for rights.
we are deeply concerned that in the maldives we are witnessing a growing trend towards the establishment of an authoritarian regime, repression of political opponents, intimidation of the media and of civil society, which could jeopardise the progress made in recent years in strengthening human rights, democracy and the rule of law in this country. the sentencing of former president of the republic of maldives mohamed nasheed to 13 years in prison on terrorism charges, as well as of prominent politicians of the state following trials that did not respect national and international standards of justice, raises serious concerns about the fairness and transparency of the judicial process. the european external action service shall have the duty to play a proactive role in the union's bilateral relations with the maldives, including at international level, in order to achieve stability, strengthen democracy and the rule of law.
mr president, political interference in the maldivian judiciary undermines the credibility of the country’s judicial system, and the reported detention and intimidation of government opponents contributes to a climate of instability in this country. moreover, it seems that human rights in the maldives have been seriously eroded and are at risk of further deterioration, while the government is failing in its duty to stop the trend and while human rights ngos face increasing attacks, intimidation and harassment in the country. i therefore express my deepest concerns about the gradual deterioration of democratic standards and increasing authoritarian tendencies, such as the use of violence by police against peaceful protesters. it is the duty of the security forces to protect peaceful demonstrators against violent gangs. we must continue to monitor closely the political situation in the maldives and to play a proactive role in increasing stability, strengthening democracy and the rule of law, and ensuring full respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms in this country.
in writing. the maldives reintroduced the death penalty last year after 60 years of prohibition, and last month the maldivian government budgeted over €200,000 to build execution chambers by lethal injection. women continue to be flogged or sentenced to death for adultery. the maldivian authorities are engaged in flagrant human rights violations, and the situation has worsened in recent years. mahfooz saeed, a human rights lawyer, was stabbed in september. ahmed rilwan abdulla, a well-known journalist, disappeared in 2014. the maldivian authorities must abandon the death penalty and other serious human rights violations. terror does not strengthen, it weakens any government.
i would add to the debate on czarnecki-tarabella that during yesterday's preda report it was said on several occasions that the council and the commission could indeed do more, by setting a good example in calling on their member states to respect human rights, including the rights of those belonging to minorities. the fact that there have been seven prosecutions for sodomy in malaysia's history, and two of them against opposition leader anwar ibrahim, says a lot about the conditions there. the removal of political opponents through judicial means certainly reflects the fear of power that the opposition can overcome a democratic election. the stand by anwar ibrahim also signals to me that the opposition is growing stronger in malaysia and that in the foreseeable future, a retreat from power will be inevitable. the european union has no business interfering in malaysia's internal politics, we can only stress that we expect all our important trading partners to respect the values we believe in.
i will start by making an announcement, which reads as follows: ‘in accordance with rule 166 of the rules of procedure, the president has decided to impose a penalty on mr de graaff for his conduct during the votes at the sitting on 28 october 2015 and it will consist in the forfeiture of his entitlement to the daily subsistence allowance for a period of five days. the decision has been notified to the member concerned’.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes).
i can inform you that i was told that it was also running on the website at the same time.
the reporter. thank you, mr president. the proposal we want to make is that in amendment no 3 we should remove the penultimate part of the paragraph, the part that starts with 'highlights' and ends with 'areas of origin', because this part is interpreted primarily by bosniaks as support for ethnic cleansing and i think it is unacceptable for our parliament to adopt a text that can be read by muslims in bosnia and herzegovina as a call for ethnic cleansing.
the vote is over.
in writing. ‒ i supported the decision to set up a committee of inquiry to investigate emission measurements in the automotive sector, which will, inter alia, keep under review the test cycles used to measure emissions, investigate the alleged failure of the commission and the member states’ authorities to take proper and effective action to oversee the enforcement and to enforce the explicit ban on defeat devices, and investigate the alleged failure of the commission to introduce tests reflecting real-world driving conditions in a timely manner and to adopt measures addressing the use of defeat mechanisms. the committee of inquiry, composed of 45 members, will present an interim report within 6 months of starting its work and will submit its final report within 12 months of starting its work.
in writing. ‒ the eu-vietnam comprehensive framework agreement on partnership and cooperation aims to establish a partnership based on common interests and on principles such as equality, mutual respect, the rule of law and human rights. the socialist republic of vietnam has proved to be a reliable, stable partner, which has shown in recent decades a pro-european orientation, actively engaging in supporting the member states. the objectives of this agreement are to promote human and social development, to promote institutional reform and sustainable development, to promote sustainable management and environmental regeneration and best practices in this field and the conservation of natural resources, to prevent and address the consequences of climate change, and to support policies and instruments aimed at progressive integration into the world economy and trade. the inclusion of croatia as a contracting party to the agreement reaffirms the major strategic importance of the republic of vietnam as a partner of the union and the positive impact of such an agreement on the economic and social level, as well as in areas such as trade, human rights, migration, regional security, energy, science and technology.
in writing. ‒ i welcome broader and deeper cooperation with vietnam, drawing it closer to the eu and helping it on the road of reform towards good governance, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as the fight against corruption; economic, social & environmental progress must take into account the principle of sustainable development. it will be a major pillar for regional stability, progress in implementing international norms, and socio-economic development.
in writing. international cooperation is one of the eu's priority objectives in recent years. this concerns cooperation with any third country with which an agreement can be concluded subject to compliance with certain european rules in the fields concerned. eu-vietnam relations have made significant progress in recent years, evolving from a predominantly economic framework to a more comprehensive relationship. this has been helped by the lifting of the ban on foreign direct investment in several sectors of the vietnamese economy, and by progress in poverty reduction, social security, education and healthcare. vietnam is also one of the world's emerging states, both economically and in terms of international relations, in the area of south-east asia and the wider pacific. at the same time, a number of worrying restrictions on freedom of expression, freedom of the press, access to information, freedom of assembly and association and freedom of religion persist in vietnam. the conclusion of the comprehensive partnership and cooperation agreement with vietnam confirms the commitment to the general principles of international law and respect for democratic principles and human rights. in these circumstances, the agreement constitutes an important step forward for both parties.
in writing. ‒ the eu-vietnam comprehensive framework agreement on partnership and cooperation aims to establish a partnership based on common interests and on principles such as equality, mutual respect, the rule of law and human rights. relations between the union and the socialist republic of vietnam are based on close historical, political and economic ties, but not least on the idea of cooperation and mutual assistance. the objectives of this agreement are to promote human and social development, to promote institutional reforms and sustainable development, to promote sustainable management and environmental regeneration and best practices in this field and the conservation of natural resources, to prevent and address the consequences of climate change, and to support policies and instruments aiming at progressive integration into the global economy and trade. i agree with the objectives of this agreement and believe that it is the basis for a comprehensive and coherent economic and political framework and also an instrument which will provide answers to a number of the problems we are facing today, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i welcome broader and deeper cooperation with vietnam, drawing it closer to the eu and helping it on the road of reform towards good governance, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as the fight against corruption; economic, social and environmental progress must take into account the principle of sustainable development. it will be a major pillar for regional stability, progress in implementing international norms, and socio-economic development.
in writing. ‒ the eu-vietnam comprehensive framework agreement on partnership and cooperation aims to establish a partnership based on common interests and on principles such as equality, mutual respect, the rule of law and human rights. the socialist republic of vietnam has proved to be a reliable, stable partner, which has shown in recent decades a pro-european orientation, actively engaging in supporting the member states. the union is the most important export market for vietnam, with both the union and vietnam benefiting economically from the ratification of the agreement. the socialist republic of vietnam has adopted a series of economic and social reforms to stimulate vietnam's integration into the world economy, an effort which i can only welcome, encourage the continuation of these reforms. i voted in favour of this resolution because i strongly believe in the major strategic importance of the republic of vietnam as a partner of the union. i believe that a strengthening of this partnership can be a valuable tool to respond to global and regional challenges, to make progress in economic and social terms, but also in areas such as trade, human rights, migration, regional security, energy, science and technology.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this well-balanced report that takes into account our opinion and underlines important considerations across a broad range of norms and rights, such as human rights, democracy, social, political, labour, the situation of women and children, environment and fair trade. vietnam has made a great achievement in attaining the mdgs, poverty reduction, economic development, social security, employment, education, and healthcare in the last two decades. i believe we need a broader and deeper cooperation with vietnam, drawing it closer to the eu and helping it on the road of reform towards good governance, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as the fight against corruption; i support economic, social and environmental progress taking into account the principle of sustainable development. cooperation with vietnam is a major pillar for regional stability, progress in implementing international norms, and socio-economic development.
in writing. ‒ economic and monetary union in europe is a concern across all the structures of the european union. while some progress has been made, further efforts are needed to address the current shortcomings of the institutional framework for the euro area. given the significant number of unemployed and those at risk of social exclusion, concrete measures, ambitious and prompt plans are needed to ensure a union based on sustainable development, on equity, ensuring the creation of more jobs, enhanced economic growth and a high level of prosperity for citizens. there is therefore a need to strengthen an economic union that ensures that each economy has the structural characteristics to thrive in monetary union. it is also necessary to strengthen the financial union to ensure the integrity of our currency by limiting risks to financial stability. moreover, the guarantee of bank deposits must be ensured, so that we can speak of a stable banking system as a guarantee of macroeconomic stability. i voted in favour of this report because it requires the adoption of swift measures to strengthen economic and banking governance and the completion of the union's economic and monetary union.
in writing. the achievement of economic and monetary union is central to the european project. therefore, strengthening it only makes the union more coherent and stronger. the commission has now launched a project for completing emu, based on the five presidents' report, which includes an update of the european semester and a new scheme for assessing annual growth, the establishment of national competitiveness councils to assess performance and policies in this area, the organisation of a european budgetary council to oversee the euro area and the provision of representation for the euro area at international level, in particular within the imf. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. unfortunately, the package proposed by the commission does not provide for increased control by the european parliament over emu, which would have strengthened the democratic dimension of this policy. provisions to encourage economic and social convergence and increased transparency in decision-making in this area should also be included. however, i believe that this resolution is a first step towards strengthening emu, which can be followed by other improvements that will bring the union closer to the needs of its citizens.
i welcome the call in the report for consistency between the union's internal and external policies and for avoiding double standards, with a particular focus on the union and its member states to effectively address internal human rights challenges. only such a coherent approach, both at home and abroad, can enable the union to maintain its credibility and effectiveness in its external human rights policy. i would like to take the case of indigenous national minorities as an example, since the union often criticises third countries in its foreign policy activities for violations of the rights of national minorities, but these minorities, despite representing almost 10% of the total eu population, are not given any attention by the union's institutions.
in writing. ‒ respect for and promotion of the indivisibility and universality of human rights and their defence is one of the union's concerns, as it is committed to developing a common foreign and security policy guided by the principles of democracy, the rule of law, the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms, respect for human dignity, and the principle of equality and solidarity. there are a number of rights that are threatened on a large scale, such as freedom of thought, conscience, religion and belief. the number of infringements is increasing considerably, particularly in third countries. the union must take prompt and responsible action when it is informed of serious human rights violations in third countries, especially those led by authoritarian regimes. it is also important to take measures at the domestic level, given the cases of discrimination and violation of rights that occur in the roma situation, in the situation of migrants and refugees. immediate responses are needed in such cases in order to maintain the credibility and consistency of the union's external human rights policy. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it is imperative to guarantee human rights and democratic values and to have internal and external policies to transpose these principles.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the final agreement reached on the opinion on annual report on human rights and democracy in the world 2014. negotiations have been positive and enriching, and i believe the opinion will support the work of our colleagues in the afet committee. we made a strong connection between insisting on human rights, gender equality, good governance, peace and security and the goal of eradicating poverty and inequalities as well as achieving the sdgs. moreover, we recalled that cultural diversity cannot be invoked to infringe human rights guaranteed by international law. human rights must be at the core of our development agenda: we therefore stressed the need to ensure that the 2030 agenda for sustainable development is underpinned by a human rights based approach. we mentioned the importance of the addis ababa agenda and we decided to strongly condemn, in the opinion, the use of harmful practices on women and of the use of rape as a weapon of war. last but not least, we reminded the commission and member states that the agreements concluded with developing countries must include binding clauses on human rights and that the commission must conduct systematic human rights impact assessments of trade and investment agreements.
in writing. ‒ i supported this text as it outlines some of the most important developments in the world and in the eu on human rights. unfortunately, i do not believe the overall situation is improving – in fact, there is a clear deterioration in the universal protection of human rights in many parts of the world. more than ever, the eu needs to be cohesive and coherent in its external dialogue, and this means a lot more coherence between the member states and the eeas and council. at the same time, i expect that we have learned much from past mistakes, being capable of investing in smarter policies and having more lasting dialogues with actors who can influence the balance on these issues.
in writing. ‒ the annual human rights report is a basic instrument of european democracy. it is therefore commendable that the eu is also using this tool to promote and protect human rights and support the foundations of democracy around the world. i also want to stress the need to implement the action plan for human rights and democracy 2015-2019 adopted by the council. however, implementation needs to be accompanied by ample resources and constant support, including from member states. another point i want to stress in this explanation of vote is the relationship between the business environment and human rights. even if it does not seem so at first sight, a primary responsibility for the impact of policies and instruments for the protection and promotion of fundamental human rights lies with the private sector. according to this report, european companies must contribute to the establishment and promotion of human rights and in no way, through their main or secondary activity, in any way affect their universality.
in writing. ‒ the 2014 annual report on human rights and democracy in the world and the european union's policy on the matter is based on the principles of democracy, the rule of law, the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms, respect for human dignity, and respect for the un charter, the eu charter of fundamental rights and international law. one of the major concerns highlighted in this report is that human rights and democratic values are increasingly under threat, especially in authoritarian regimes, especially those relating to freedom of expression, thought, conscience and religion, assembly and association, as the number of human rights defenders who are under attack globally increases. i commend the european external action service (eeas) and the commission for their comprehensive reporting on the eu's human rights activities in 2014 and would like to underline that enhanced cooperation between the commission, the council, parliament, the eeas and eu delegations is vital as it is at the heart of all eu policies with an external dimension, especially on security, employment and migration.
in writing. ‒ one of the bloodiest conflicts in europe since the second world war was in the balkans, and its end was marked by the peace agreement of 14 december 1995, which also aimed to create a functioning state in which the three constituent nations could live in harmony in a state governed by the rule of law in bosnia and herzegovina. the european council welcomes the fact that the european union has taken the necessary steps to ensure that the european union's external relations are as close as possible to those of the member states, and that the european union is able to contribute to the implementation of the lisbon strategy, in particular by supporting the implementation of the lisbon strategy, and by supporting the implementation of the lisbon strategy. i support this resolution, given both the state's candidacy for the european union and the need to bring to justice the perpetrators of war crimes, in order to facilitate the process of reconciliation and peaceful coexistence of all three ethnic communities. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the dayton agreement marked a great victory for diplomacy over war, putting an end to a conflict that fuelled atrocities that horrified the world, claimed over 100 000 lives and displaced millions of people, and laid the foundation of the territorial integrity, sovereignty, international personality, and political independence of bosnia and herzegovina. i support the call for better coordination of efforts at all levels and more attention to the most vulnerable displaced people, including roma and women victims of violence. more efforts are needed in the field of reconciliation and democratic development and consolidation as bosnian society is still divided along ethnic lines. i believe we can play an important role towards facilitating an agreement among the constituent peoples on the implementation of the ruling which will guarantee equal rights for all citizens of bosnia and herzegovina, further enhancing human rights commitments.
in writing. the dayton agreement adopted in 1995 marked a watershed moment in the history of the western balkans and the bloody conflicts that have plagued the region in the recent past. beyond the atrocities committed by the warring sides in the bosnian war, the dayton agreement is a triumph of diplomacy over arms and a sign that solutions achieved through dialogue between all the parties concerned are the only alternative to the conflict. by adopting this agreement, the foundations of the current state of bosnia and herzegovina were laid, with respect for the will of each of the three constituent ethnic communities: muslim, serb and croat. the european union was the main supporter of this agreement and continues to support the state development of bosnia and herzegovina on its path towards full integration into the european community. it involves strengthening internal democracy and the rule of law, as well as implementing economic reforms to bring it into line with european structures and raise the living standards of the population. dayton continues to be a model for resolving a crisis by peaceful means, a good example for the ongoing conflicts in ukraine, syria, iraq, libya and yemen.
it is important to emphasise that the regulation of arms exports by member states is essentially a matter of national competence. the council common position only provides for communication between member states. although the report criticises the member states for their systematic violations of point 8 of the common position and calls for the establishment of a sanctions system, i think we should take note that in this sensitive area the member states will never surrender their sovereignty. i feel that the question of the compatibility of the arms export activities of the member states with the union's foreign policy objectives is a more important one. i feel the need for increased coordination particularly in this negotiating framework. the existence of common foreign policy guidelines presupposes that the arms export policies of the member states do not undermine our common interests.
in writing. ‒ the spread of armed conflict is a matter of european union security itself and, in an increasingly globalised world, a threat to global stability and security, and this includes in particular the conflicts in ukraine, syria, iraq, libya and yemen, as well as all international conflicts. in addition to the humanitarian support the eu provides, the sources of these conflicts must be addressed, and arms transfers to states in conflict have contributed to these conflicts. the defence industry should serve as a tool for guaranteeing the defence and security of the member states, ensuring a secure supply regime in the eu and at the same time contributing to the implementation of the cfsp and the csdp in an enhanced manner and should not fuel insecurity and armed conflict, inherently linked to serious violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms. in the context of the large and profitable business of the illicit arms trade, effective arms export control regimes need to be put in place. i consider that an important step has been taken by the entry into force of the arms trade treaty, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the european union, in the post-world war ii context, was founded on the principles of peace and prosperity. we are aware that the uncontrolled spread of weapons poses a serious threat to peace and security, but also to human rights and sustainable development. the fact that, globally, every minute, a person dies from gun violence, and in the same period, 15 new weapons are manufactured is disturbingly worrying. the council common position of 8 december 2008 on the definition of common rules governing the control of exports of military technology and equipment has not been fully implemented and consistently interpreted by the member states. it is therefore essential to pursue the consistent application of the eight criteria. in addition, the lack of mechanisms to sanction breaches of the criteria is a concern and therefore the common position should provide for the modalities for carrying out independent checks and for the application of sanctions in case of breaches of the criteria. i therefore support the report on arms exports - implementation of common position 2008/944/cfsp.
in writing. ‒ the unprecedented spread of armed conflicts is a huge threat to world stability and security and has determined a less stable and less secure neighbourhood for the eu area; arms transfers to states in conflict are significantly contributing to these conflicts and situations. i therefore strongly support the report, which will allow better regulation for arms exports. we have a key role in preventing irresponsible exports of arms to countries that violate human rights and fundamental freedoms, and regulating the international arms trade must be a global ambition. it is fundamental to support transparency, and to promote adherence to the highest regional and international standards, such as the arms trade treaty and the eu common position on arms export control. this legally binding framework demonstrates the determination of eu member states to prevent the export of military technology and equipment that might be used for undesirable purposes such as internal repression or international aggression, or contribute to regional instability; we therefore have to fully support its implementation.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this text as it is vital in the context of greater efforts for world security to step up our efforts in controlling arms trade and proliferation. the near vicinity of the eu has grown more unstable in the past few years, and small and large weapons are a basic source of instability. the arms trade treaty was a welcome development in this context, just like the recent efforts of the member states in upholding the provisions of the common positions. however, the development of new technologies puts even more urgency in the eu's efforts - as the risks for these technologies to fall in the wrong hands through unregulated exports are great.
in writing. ‒ the european union and its member states have a significant arms industry, with total exports of €36.7 billion, thus contributing a significant share to the union's economy. at the same time, however, the global security environment has seen a worrying proliferation of armed conflicts with high civilian casualties, many of them close to the union's borders and adversely affecting member states. on the other hand, the use of arms exported by eu countries for self-defence purposes is considered legitimate, especially in the case of the conflicts in ukraine and iraqi kurdistan. in this regard, strict regulation of arms exports to third countries is necessary on the basis of the arms trade treaty. the adoption of common position 2008/944/cfsp, to which a number of western balkan states, efta and canada have also subscribed, is an obvious step forward in this area, by making exports subject to respect for certain european values and freedoms and human rights in third countries, as well as to european security imperatives. more transparency in the publication of annual reports on arms exports is recommended, as well as public scrutiny of dual-use military products, in particular new technologies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on arms exports, as the uncontrolled proliferation of weapons poses a serious threat to peace and security, human rights and sustainable development. worldwide, one person dies every minute from gun violence, and 15 new weapons are manufactured in the same period. moreover, arms transfers to unstable regions can contribute to the emergence of new conflicts and the eu needs to be extremely vigilant in this regard, as eu member states were responsible for 25.4% of global arms deliveries in 2010-2014. arms export control is part of the eu's foreign and security policy and must be carried out in accordance with the principles enshrined in the founding treaties, such as promoting democracy and the rule of law, preventing conflicts and strengthening international security. the eu must ensure a coherence between arms exports and its credibility as a global human rights promoter. a common position is therefore needed on arms exports, and relations between member states in this area, which is the exclusive competence of the states, need to be strengthened.
in writing. ‒ food security has always been a concern of the european institutions, taking into account that the un estimates that by 2050 the global population will increase by 25% to 9.7 billion. cheap, quality food, easily accessible to consumers, requires a balance between all the actors involved in this process. there is no doubt that stimulating innovation and the development of new plant varieties can be responses to these challenges, and plant breeders play a key role in species diversification and productivity gains. plant breeding is essential for food security and the effective protection of those working in research guarantees the development of this sector. at the same time, we need to ensure that all legal uncertainties regarding the rights of patent holders and the exceptions granted to breeders are fully clarified, so as to avoid anything that could affect the development of the plant breeding sector and, by implication, the possibility for farmers to benefit from productive and accessible varieties. the european patent office has to be extremely careful in its work, lest it end up patenting something that has been around for hundreds of years and that will certainly endanger food safety.
in writing. ‒ access to biological plant material encompassing plant traits is absolutely necessary for boosting growth and innovation and developing new varieties in order to guarantee global food security, tackle climate change and prevent monopolies within the breeding sector, while at the same time providing more opportunities for smes. unrestricted access to biological material will stimulate the innovative strength of the plant breeding sector. undermining the innovative ability of the plant breeding sector to develop new varieties poses a threat to global food production and food security and will have a negative impact on european competitiveness and may lead to monopolies on the food market. i therefore would like to express my concern about the recent decision of the enlarged board of appeal of the epo in cases g2/12 (tomatoes) and g2/13 (broccoli), which could lead to an increase in the number of patents, granted by the epo, for natural traits which are introduced into new varieties by using essentially biological processes such as crossing and selection.
in writing. the european union's agriculture and food policy focuses on ensuring that adequate quantity and quality of food is provided to european consumers. the recent decision by the european patent office to patent certain plant characteristics is a restrictive interpretation of the european patent convention, which may have a negative effect on european competitiveness and lead to monopolies on the food market by reducing the diversity of consumer products on offer. however, biological hybridisation processes are essential practices to increase plant resistance to various pests or diseases that may occur and that may endanger the food security of european citizens. unrestricted access to biological material is necessary to stimulate research and innovation in this field, which is jeopardised by the decision of the european patent office. for this reason, i believe that a single european policy on hybridisation is needed, which supports the production of resistant plant varieties, does not affect european and global agricultural production and continues to offer the widest range of products to european consumers.
in writing. ‒ the eu's commitment to human rights, the rule of law and democracy and to all peoples of the world, including the burundian people, leads to a strong condemnation of the actions taking place in burundi, such as the use of force against peaceful, unarmed demonstrators, human rights abuses by state officials, extrajudicial executions, arbitrary arrests and detentions, torture, attacks on independent media, harassment and assassination of human rights defenders, unjustified restrictions on freedom of peaceful assembly and expression, and the displacement of over 200 000 people as a result of violence. the eu's partnership with burundi is governed by the cotonou agreement, which provides that all parties are obliged to respect and implement the provisions of this agreement, in particular with regard to human rights. the union supports the establishment by the prosecutor-general of the republic of burundi of a commission of inquiry to investigate the api crimes of 13 october 2015, in particular as burundi is also a party to the international criminal court and has undertaken to combat impunity for crimes within its jurisdiction. we are in danger of a regional crisis, as evidenced by the constant exodus of refugees to neighbouring countries, and that is why i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ the increasingly pronounced insecurity and the constant worsening of violence in burundi (a recent massacre took place in the past few days that killed about 90 people) have dramatic consequences for the country and the entire region. the burundian authorities should participate in consultations with a view to finding a solution acceptable to the parties in order to put an end to the violation of human rights, democratic principles and the rule of law. the security and freedom of citizens, human rights defenders, journalists and the press, as well as the restoration of the rule of law, are essential. i strongly support the immediate cessation of violence, human rights violations, political intimidation of opponents and the immediate disarmament of all armed groups allied to political parties, in strict accordance with international law and human rights. the eu must continue to actively support all diplomatic efforts to find a consensual solution to the crisis and be ready to come up with new solutions as the situation evolves. the eu must also adopt new restrictive measures targeting those who, by their actions or by their promoted speech, have provoked or could provoke acts of violence, repression and serious human rights violations.
in writing. ‒ i would like to express my fear for the escalation of violence in burundi and my solidarity with all victims of violence, as well as with the people forced to move in an atmosphere of insecurity and uncertainty. i regret the continuing political impasse in the country, marked by the refusal of a real dialogue between the actors. any speech and incitement to hatred could aggravate the already precarious situation and is therefore totally unacceptable. these developments may have tragic consequences for burundi and for the entire region. we must by all means cooperate to find a solution to stop the violence in the country. i support the call on all parties, both government and opposition, to show the utmost restraint in language and to avoid triggering a cycle of violence at all costs. i also would like to recall that it is primarily the responsibility of the burundian government to protect its population.
in writing. ‒ the european union is one of the world's leading advocates of human rights and fundamental freedoms. the union also places particular emphasis on the development of democratic practices and the rule of law in the various countries of the world. burundi is a developing african state where these eu-promoted values are threatened by the current regime in power. specifically, we're talking about an ongoing humanitarian catastrophe, with 200,000 refugees in neighboring countries and about 250 people killed this year alone. he was also responsible for the repression of the opposition and the repression of the civil society. the situation thus created is likely to threaten the security of the entire east african area and to generate a new outbreak of immigration. the un security council has already adopted a resolution calling on the incumbent government to remedy the situation as a matter of urgency, but this has not yet happened. the eu has introduced a series of sanctions against the current burundian president's entourage, under article 96 of the cotonou agreement. however, the measures taken may prove insufficient and if dialogue is not a solution, the deployment of peacekeeping troops is the last alternative.
in writing. ‒ virunga national park (vnp) is africa's oldest national park and a unesco world heritage site, recognised worldwide for its unique habitats with the highest biodiversity in africa. currently, concessions have been negotiated between the drc and soco (uk) and total (france) in the protected area of the park, which is unacceptable as the exploitation of oil will cause irreversible damage to the pnv. in addition, these agreements were made in violation of the paris convention for the protection of the world cultural and natural heritage, the 1992 convention on biological diversity, the ramsar convention and congolese law. knowing that the pnv currently generates an annual economic value equivalent to usd 48,9 million and that in a stable situation the park could contribute to economic growth and tourism development and could generate usd 1 billion in annual value, creating 45 000 jobs, i encourage the european external action service to take all necessary measures to ensure that soco international plc and its drc subsidiary publicly commit to cease all exploration and exploitation activities for the resources of the virunga park. i chose to vote in favor of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the virunga national park is a park rich in biodiversity in africa, and a unesco world heritage site. however, oil and logging concessions were permitted there, especially for the benefit of european companies, in violation of international environmental agreements signed by the drc. the park has also become the place of illegal practices such as poaching. moreover, the presence of armed groups that control these concessions give rise to abuse and serious violations of human rights. the commission has to make active steps and build viable strategies to help protect virunga national park and to support sustainable development in the democratic republic of congo. we must emphasise the importance of virunga national park, address the root causes of armed conflicts in the region and ask the government of the drc to protect the park and support development.
the period for explanations of votes has expired.
