mr president, colleagues, when assessing the italian presidency, we must not forget that the past six months were probably the most challenging from the perspective of foreign policy: from the russian aggression in ukraine to the rise of islamic state (isis) in iraq and syria, which have fundamentally altered europe’s strategic environment. under italy’s stewardship the eu responded well enough. we came together to agree on a robust sanctions package in response to russia’s blatant violation of international law, and this in itself counts as a historic achievement for our common foreign policy. in the southern neighbourhood, several eu member states, including italy, joined the international coalition against isis which halted its military advance and forced it to retreat. italy also steered the eu’s response to the immigration crisis in the mediterranean sea – the triton operation. for the moment, we should take some comfort from the fact that, in both the southern and eastern neighbourhoods, things look a little more stable than they did in the summer. we have averted the worst-case scenarios, and for that the italian presidency deserves credit.
italy has made bold plans for its presidency. priority was given to addressing youth employment through the effective implementation of the youth guarantee scheme, together with investment in education, training and labour mobility. i think that the italian presidency has not disappointed and has created the conditions for the next presidency to continue and for the creation of appropriate legislation within the eu. another very important priority was addressing the problems of asylum and migration policy in europe . we have been discussing this issue for some time, but so far no country has addressed it in the presidency. italy, as the country that receives and rescues the most migrants from countries where they are at risk of hunger, poverty and, in many cases, escape from their own country to save their health and their lives, has begun to speak very openly about the problems of asylum policy and the problems of migrants. the problem of the south of europe must be an eu problem. the creation of a common asylum and immigration policy must therefore remain a priority for the commission and all member states.
in writing i personally welcome the intention of the european commission to give member states more powers to ban the cultivation of genetically modified crops. however, it should be borne in mind that the main factor is not the existing rules but demand, which will be very hardly affected by any amendment of the legislation in the field in question. it is well known in europe that the primary reason for the low cultivation of gm crops is the lack of market demand for their supply. we cannot expect farmers to produce something that they will have a very hard time selling to their trading partners, and in practice many farmers often have customers explicitly demanding evidence that the goods they supply are not genetically modified. however, i welcome the fact that the new rules envisaged are intended to give member states greater control over the prohibition of the cultivation of this type of crop in their national agricultural sectors. however, it should also be borne in mind that countries that decide to prevent the cultivation of genetically modified organisms on their territory may face legal attack from the biotechnology industry, so it is also appropriate to put in place measures to protect them adequately.
in writing i am in favour of the proposal, as it can help to free up trade between the eu and the euro-mediterranean countries in the future. the removal of trade barriers between countries leads to greater prosperity and freedom for all involved. moreover, given that it has been more than eight years since romania and bulgaria joined the eu, it is high time that this agreement was concluded.
transport is a key element for our economy and society. it helps economic growth and job creation. since the publication of the 2001 white paper on transport, considerable progress has been made. in air, road and partly rail transport, there has been further market opening. however, the transport system is still not sustainable. its sustainability is one of the essential attributes for making it work more efficiently. as mobility is one of the important aspects of the internal market and raises the standard of living of citizens, the completion of the single transport market should be one of the eu's fundamental objectives. moreover, strong international cooperation needs to be promoted, given the global nature of transport.
the citizens of the european union, but i see that we politicians, do not have a common view on the issue of genetically modified food. on the one hand, it says that if we want to solve the world's hunger problems, we can't do without genetically modified food. the arguments against call for caution over the possible adverse effects of eating such foods. caution is in order in this situation. i therefore support the agreement reached, which will lead to a change in the current approval regime and strengthen the member states' ability to do so. under the directive in force until now, gmos were authorised centrally for the whole of the european union and national authorities had very limited options. the new legislative framework will provide more room and legal certainty for member states to ban, restrict or authorise genetically modified food.
in writing. parliament accepted the compromise that eu member states may restrict (or prohibit) the cultivation of genetically modified crops on their territory if they are otherwise authorised at eu level. under the new rules, member states can also ban the cultivation of gmos on grounds of environmental protection or agricultural policy. member states may also prohibit certain plant varieties or plants with certain characteristics. one of the main arguments for gmos is that european agriculture could become more efficient. opponents of gmos, on the other hand, warn of the risky results of production. as a biochemist, i share the view of most scientists that at this point we cannot know whether, and if so, what genetic changes are caused in the human body by foods containing genetically engineered genes. scientists also warn that it may be only in the third or fourth generation that any human genetic changes caused by gmos become apparent. the ep decided to return this power to the member states, so that each member state is free to decide whether to authorise such products or not. the technical content of the move is interesting, but also the political momentum, which the eu has taken in strengthening the competence of the member states in this matter. this will, of course, lead to complications in the future, for example in the formulation of a free trade agreement with the usa. i voted in favour of this necessary compromise.
in writing the european commission's intention to give member states more powers to ban the cultivation of genetically modified crops is a positive step. however, it should be borne in mind that the main factor is not the existing rules but demand, which will be very hardly affected by any amendment of the legislation in the field in question. it is well known in europe that the primary reason for the low cultivation of gm crops is the lack of market demand for their supply. it is impossible to expect farmers to produce something that they will have a very difficult time selling to their trading partners, and in practice it is often the case that customers explicitly require evidence that the goods supplied are not genetically modified.
i personally have a problem with the use of genetically modified organisms (gmos). but i realize that for hundreds of incurable diseases, it is only through gmos that we can develop active ingredients. the main problem concerns the exclusive cultivation of gmos for harvesting or research in the open field i. imports of gmos intended primarily for animal feed are not covered by this legislation the main objective of this amendment is to provide more room and legal certainty for member states wishing to ban the cultivation of authorised gmos in all or part of their territory. the member state concerned shall inform the commission of the results of the evaluation. the commission will be able to decide for itself whether to ban the use of the eu has some of the strictest rules in the world, and this is a very important issue for the eu. the new regulation is a further tightening of the rules. i'm in favor of compromise.
in writing in the field of genetically modified organisms, gmos, it is important that we protect the health and safety of eu citizens and member states first and foremost. the vast majority of european citizens do not want to grow and consume genetically modified crops or genetically modified animals for human consumption. today, even member states that do not expressly wish to do so have a clear right not to grow gmos on their territory. the minority of countries that already grow gmos must take measures to prevent contamination of their fields by those who grow such crops, we are talking about fields in border areas. the text adopted by the council and today by the european parliament provides for the possibility for the opt out member states not to grow gmos on their territory, which in my view increases the rights of the member states in terms of subsidiarity. there is also a safeguard clause against foreign importers, so that they cannot enforce in court the right to import such crops despite not wanting to grow them in a country. i think this text reinforces the three principles, although it's not perfect yet, it's a compromise. the three principles are transparency, health protection and safety.
in writing. the proposal we adopted, which i voted for, i regard as a step in the right direction. member states should be able to prohibit the cultivation of gmos on their territory. i'm all for subsidiarity. the result of this debate must be a better informed citizenship, since they should have the right to decide on the fate of gmos in their country. it should also be noted that the health risks associated with eating such foods are still unknown, as studies on their harmfulness are still in doubt. in order for citizens to know the truth, we need a relevant debate at the professional level, with both pro- and anti-gmo voices.
in writing - i supported the motion for a resolution to allow member states to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of gm crops for reasons other than environmental criteria. other reasons include spatial planning requirements or socio-economic reasons. i also support the introduction of 'mandatory rules' which should prevent gm crops grown in certain countries from spreading to neighbouring non-gm countries. mon810 maize is currently the only genetically modified crop grown in the european union. slovakia is a small country, growing maize on 225 thousand hectares and only 100 hectares of modified maize. the debate between those in favour and those against the cultivation of genetically modified crops will continue, but it is important that research in this area does not lag behind, that the population has all the information about the possible consequences of growing gmo crops and their subsequent inclusion in the food chain.
in writing i welcome this agreement because it will give more flexibility to member states who wish to restrict the cultivation of genetically modified crops on their territory. it is important that a scientifically based authorisation system within the eu remains in place. i also believe that a major priority in the area of gmo cultivation should be to carry out rigorous safety assessments and to strengthen the monitoring system.
in writing. the primary tasks of this committee include promoting, protecting and rationally managing living water resources, developing and recommending conservation measures and supporting cooperation projects in the field of training. at its meetings, the commission adopted measures to be incorporated into european union law on the exploitation of red coral, measures to mitigate the consequences of incidental catches of seabirds and, last but not least, measures to ensure a high level of protection from fishing activities. however, it is important to note that the gfcm proposal ignores measures already in place at national level and the european commission's proposal in this area is in many cases much stricter than the recommendations of the mediterranean fisheries commission.
in writing i support the proposal as it introduces in particular technical and other measures to increase the effectiveness of the gfcm arrangements. however, like the rapporteur, i do not agree that the commission in some cases enforces even stricter recommendations than the gfcm, even in cases where this excessive rigor is totally unjustified and contrary to scientific advice.
mr tusk, allow me to congratulate you on your important position as president of the european council. the council you're chairing is calling for a $315 billion investment package. european politicians have always been fond of redistributing money that someone else has earned. unfortunately, this package is just marketing. the 315 billion package is marketing. it's not gonna work. it's not going to bring new jobs, it's not going to bring real investment. if you want more investment, the first thing you have to do is stop blocking it. we have unrealistic climate targets, absurd workplace safety regulations, and absurdly high social protection. don't be surprised if the investors leave. i think that is your task: to improve the conditions so that quality and sound business can once again be conducted in the european union.
in writing. twenty-five million people, including five million young people in the eu, are out of work, 124 million people are exposed to poverty. despite efforts at national and european level, the recovery is weaker than previously forecast. if we invest more in high-return projects, our economy will grow faster and we will create more jobs. in fact, in the medium term, it will help us reduce the number of people who are unemployed. at the same time, we need to examine what has held back eu member states from investing 15% less than before the crisis, while the us is able to invest at pre-crisis levels. these obstacles must be removed. the eu is already talking about mobilising €315 billion by the end of 2017 to help tackle the challenges of climate change. in addition to private investors, we need to involve public investors in the process. however, if individual countries are to increase their investment capacity, we must adopt new flexibility rules which will allow countries, under certain conditions, to exclude these investments from the allowable def the icity.
mr president, as we know, the situation in libya is at the moment chaotic, as different groups are fighting each other to get power. this is a very bad situation for every citizen, but i would like to stand up for one group of them, who are only half a per cent of the population but a group who suffers the most – the christians. the situation for christians is horrible due to different fundamental islamist groups fighting each other and, moreover, the current official government does not tolerate christians at all. christians are kidnapped, beheaded, beaten, put under huge psychological pressure, forced to convert to islam and heavily discriminated against. according to the brand new world watch list compiled by open doors, the situation is getting worse and worse. besides this, destabilised countries and regions fighting with islamic extremists cause considerable problems in europe. european recruits who are fighting for these groups are afterwards coming back to europe and becoming a real threat for us. therefore, i would like to urge the high representative to pay special attention to helping and protecting minorities, and especially christians.
the situation in libya has deteriorated considerably in recent months. all segments of the country's civilian population, including women and children, and minorities living in libya, including christians, as mentioned here, are suffering from the escalating violence. i consider attacks on civilians to be a particular manifestation of cruelty and bigotry that has no place in the civilized world. recent events therefore require libya to take urgent measures to enhance internal security, to counter the spread of terrorism and to commit to resolving the internal situation peacefully. the international community, and in particular the european union, must fully support the establishment of an inclusive, all-society dialogue in libya, based on mutual understanding, respect and a willingness to address the situation. dialogue is a necessary prerequisite for a constructive process of stabilising the country. i therefore support the use of political and diplomatic pressure on the country to transform it into a functioning democratic state.
president-in-office of the council. - mr president, women on company boards are the next topic. the subject of the gender balance on company boards is a very important topic. there is a broad consensus in europe on the need to increase the number of women in decision-making, especially in businesses. i firmly believe that parliament, the council and the commission already agree in principle on the most crucial thing, namely that equality before the law is not enough – we also need equality in practice, and this also means ending vertical segregation. there is no reason in the 21st century why businesses, banks and the economy as a whole should be mainly run by men. allow me therefore to thank the european parliament for keeping this issue on the agenda and for insisting on progress. as the commission has also stressed, european business needs the talents of europe’s highly-educated women, and increasing diversity is also a way to improve the performance of companies. we look forward to constructive exchanges with the european parliament’s new rapporteur on this file, ms gabriel. according to the latest figures, the average share of women on boards of the largest publicly-listed companies in the eu is now 18.6%. this is a clear sign that concrete measures must be taken to remedy the situation. how do we ensure that our largest companies can benefit from the talents and dynamism of both women and men? it is a generally political question and policymakers have divergent views on approaches and what tools we should use. we should therefore not be surprised if more time is needed to agree. the goal we share can be reached by different roads. as you know, some member states have already introduced binding quotas. others are wary of interfering with company law and prefer self-regulatory measures. by means of example, the share of women on the boards of latvia’s largest companies is 31%. i am proud to say that this result has been achieved without any formal measures of positive discrimination. how do we crack the glass ceiling? what is the eu’s proper role in this? the commission’s proposal for a directive in this area seeks to answer the question in its own way. the proposal itself is a compromise of sorts. it does not provide for binding quotas. instead, it sets quantitative objectives. the main obligations that the proposal contains concern the procedure for selecting board members, which should be fair, merit-based and transparent. i note that the european parliament already adopted its first reading position on the commission’s proposal in late 2013. in that opinion your institution broadly endorsed the approach suggested by the commission. it is no secret that the negotiations on the council side have been challenging. despite efforts made by successive presidencies, our discussions have not yet been completed. views still differ between the member states regarding the best approach. the diversity between member states needs to be respected in term of company law, the degree of gender balance already achieved and the national measures already taken to improve it. the member states are taking action but in different ways. we must also remember that the member states start from very different levels. one thing is becoming clear: from the subsidiarity perspective, any future measures at european level should recognise the fact that there is no one-size-fits-all solution. this was the spirit of the approach taken by the italian presidency. building on this work, we will continue our search for a solution under the latvian presidency. on behalf of the council i assure you that we will take forward this work with a view to reaching an agreement.
member of the commission. - mr president, honourable members, i would like first to thank you for adding this item to the agenda because it gives me an opportunity to present here the clear position of the commission, and of myself, on this important piece of legislation which is – hopefully – in the process of adoption. we are fully aware that major steps on the road to effective gender equality need to be taken. the adoption of the directive on improving gender balance on company boards will be an important step on that road. the directive will help smash the glass ceiling that prevents qualified women from holding top jobs. the directive is smart and flexible: it puts qualification and merit centre stage. this european union instrument is as necessary as ever. on boards of private companies we still have only 18% women. at the same time, 60% of new university graduates in europe are female. their talent should not be wasted, in particular in light of the demographic changes we face in europe. it is well recognised in numerous studies that a range of talents, experience and skills in the boardroom improves business performance and governance and drives economic growth. if we want to maintain europe’s competitiveness and stay ahead of demographic changes, we need more women at work, especially qualified women. some member states have seen positive developments, mainly those such as france, belgium and italy that have introduced, or are considering, legally binding measures. however, in others the situation is stagnating or even worsening. we have tried non-legislative action at eu level, but with limited results as you all know. only a legally binding measure at eu level can effectively contribute to greater gender equality in the area of economic decision-making. we will therefore intensify our efforts to speed up the process of the adoption of this directive. let me remind you that what the directive seeks is progress and fairness. we do not want women to be privileged because they are women. we want qualified women to get a fair chance. this is why, rather than imposing a particular result, the proposed directive requires member states to ensure that qualification, competence and professional performance play the key role during the process of selection to board positions. this approach is in line with the case law of the court of justice, which has set rules and conditions for positive action for the under-represented sex in employment. it requires a comparative assessment of all candidates on the basis of objective criteria. since there are highly qualified women capable of being selected as candidates, this approach is the right one to take. i see that considerable efforts have been made by previous presidencies; this is very welcome and there are concrete results from these efforts. the proposal is moving closer to achieving a qualified majority in the council. in particular, the italian presidency has worked intensively on this directive and i am convinced that, on this solid basis, it is possible to agree that subsidiarity concerns be fully addressed. this should ensure the support of a sufficient majority of member states. latvia is among the member states which have recently adopted a more positive approach to the directive. the commission is therefore encouraging the latvian presidency to use this positive momentum, actively to pursue the discussion and then to reach a compromise solution.
for the ecr group the natural desire of every human is to realize his potential. as a mother of three who has been active in politics for several years, i believe that whether a woman decides to devote her life purely to her family or to combine family and work, it is our duty to create the right conditions for her to do so. unfortunately, the proposal which provides for quotas for the representation of women on the supervisory boards of companies does not create such conditions. this is clearly demonstrated by the example of norway, where quotas were introduced in 2006 but did not have the desired effect. the norwegian employers' representatives agreed that a sufficient number of places in kindergartens and well-established parental leave are much more crucial not only for women's performance in top positions but also for their overall participation in the labour market. the european commission itself, as well as some member states, is an example of good practice in the field of parental leave, where employees can take part of this leave flexibly up to the age of 12. i was inspired by this amendment and am currently trying to push it through the slovak parliament. i believe that this way i can make a much more meaningful contribution to enabling women to realize their potential and not be bogged down by the question: work or family?
in writing. the terrorist attack in paris is further sad evidence that internal security in the eu requires careful reassessment and significant reinforcement. concerns about internal security in the context of the fight against organised crime, terrorism and violent extremism are also closely linked to the persistence of economic repression and political developments in the eu's neighbourhood, where many criminal activities originate or are organised. our society must be able to deal comprehensively with security threats whose dimensions and sophistication are constantly growing. in a globalised world, crime ignores borders and it is no longer within the power of individual member states to tackle these threats on their own. solidarity and cooperation are the keys to success. we must act together to achieve the level of security that eu citizens deserve and that they expect from us as public officials.
corruption is a phenomenon with enormous negative economic and social consequences, and we must therefore constantly draw attention to its harmfulness and take measures to reduce the incentive and scope for corrupt behaviour by public officials. corruption drains scarce public resources from the areas where they should be spent, prevents improvements (or causes deterioration) in the quality and availability of public services, and hinders economic growth. corruption also negatively affects good governance and contributes to the erosion of trust in public institutions and democratic processes. the slovak republic is among the countries with the highest perceived corruption rates in the eu (cpi, corruption perceptions index according to transparency international), but at least in the legislative field, it has made significant progress in reducing the space for corrupt behaviour over the last decade. examples include the reform of the trade register, the increase in the share of eligible permits and licences, or the recent passing of a law that significantly increases the incentive to report corrupt behaviour, both by providing more effective protection for the whistleblower against possible sanctions by the employer, and by offering the possibility of receiving financial rewards for reporting corruption. more than shortcomings in anti-corruption legislation, the current problem in the fight against corruption in slovakia is very weak enforcement of the law, which is related to the long-term state of justice.
my country, the slovak republic, will also hold the presidency of the european union for the first time in 2016. you come at a time when the situation in europe is very dramatic from the point of view of foreign policy, but also from the point of view of economic and social affairs. we have a difficult situation in greece, we have a difficult situation in ukraine. all of this will be part of your agenda, and all of this will have to be addressed perhaps more quickly than the very noble idea of a digital agenda that you put into your program. i'd like to wish you all the best in all this. because we have to show the citizens of the member states of the european union that we are doing something for them; that everything we are discussing here has not only a bureaucratic and administrative dimension, but it has a direct impact on their lives. you also come from a country where the situation of the employed and their wages are not as good as in some places in western europe, so i hope that this situation will also improve. we would appreciate it in slovakia.
in writing. – the recent tragic events in paris draw our attention to a significant and still-neglected segment of european integration: the co-existence of majority and minority nations. minorities contribute to the diversity of the european union. national minorities make up 8%, immigrant minorities up to 6% of the eu population. these numbers are not insignificant. we generally understand the diversity of the eu as being between member states, but the cultural and national identity of the member states would not be the same without the co-existence with minorities. an effective and well-balanced minority protection system serves as a tool of integration rather than disintegration. traditional and new minorities, however, have different needs and need different protection systems. the eu citizens who belong to national minorities need attention at eu level. they should get the feeling that their existence is not neglected by brussels. therefore i expect steps in this direction from the eu during the latvian presidency. it is high time to accept european minimum standards for the protection of traditional national minorities. it is also high time to rethink the effectiveness of our policies with regard to immigrant communities.
in writing i appreciate the latvian presidency's objectives of creating a 'competitive, digital and internationally strong europe'. it is important to defend the values of freedom, security, justice and tolerance, since it is on these values that the eu was founded and these values are increasingly being violated also on the territory of the eu member states. i also welcome the objectives set to promote growth and jobs, boost investment, deepen economic and monetary union and complete the digital single market. i wish the latvian presidency much success in achieving all its stated objectives.
madam president, the challenges we are facing in foreign and security policies are unprecedented since the beginning of eu integration. the extremely volatile international environment, hybrid wars and terrorist attacks or political extremism are in sharp contradiction to our international goals and values. our response needs to be more unity. the eu needs to speak with one voice: the voice which represents our values and interests. we need to make better use of the eu potential to shape our political and security environment, not merely to react. this especially concerns our neighbourhood but also cooperation with our partners around the globe. our security and defence is the next big question. we have to face cuts in our defence spending but, at the same time, more demands on our security. it is clear that we have to make spending effective, but we also need to invest more in our defence and security policy. from your introductory statement, madam high representative, i appreciated and was glad to hear your words about the new security strategy. i think that is something which we need. it is very important and i fully support you. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8)
blue-card answer. – the short version of my answer is ‘yes, sir’. i think that it is necessary to discuss the sanctions against russia, but i fully agree with you that, if we do not see any change in the behaviour of russia in the direction for which the sanctions were introduced, then we have to discuss it in order to find more effective means and instruments.
mr president, the security challenges we face are probability greater than at any point in the eu’s history. the gravest is the threat of radical islamic terrorism. after the tragedy in paris, we are hearing proposals to weaken the schengen regime. in my view, that would be a huge step backwards. instead of reinstating border checks and undermining one of the eu’s fundamental freedoms, we need closer coordination among our security and law enforcement agencies. instead of gathering ever greater amounts of data and undermining civil liberties, we need more effective, intelligence sharing to connect the dots from the information we already collect. we also need stronger institutional structures at eu level. i believe that europe needs its own common intelligence service, as proposed last year by our esteemed colleague, former commissioner reding.
members of the house of representatives! i was in the big paris riot last week, i'm charlie too! i'm charlie, and i condemn all forms of violence. europe must stand together against this madness! but i'm not only charlie, i'm baga! the baga that was destroyed by terrorists in nigeria on january 8th, leaving thousands of victims. boko haram in nigeria now controls 70% of nigeria, and they fanatically persecute anything that they think is inconsistent with the teachings of islam. we can't keep quiet! because he is an accomplice to crime, who is silent! the horrors of boko haram will not go away by themselves, the people of nigeria need us! europe can give back its nobel peace prize if it looks on with a smug face at the violence that is taking place. let us find the means to stop the bloodshed.
the situation in ukraine is in many ways one of the greatest foreign policy challenges we face. it is therefore necessary to clearly define and implement the vision of our relations with ukraine. the truth is, we were not prepared for this crisis. it is all the more important to respond to it in the spirit of our european values. there are two strategic issues on which we need to agree before the riga summit. the first concerns the trilateral talks between the eu, ukraine and russia on the association agreement and the dcfta. we have accepted unprecedented third party interference in a bilateral political and trade agreement. the member states, together with the commission, must therefore set clear limits beyond which we can no longer retreat. it is unthinkable to make a deal with russia at the expense of another country's sovereignty! the second question concerns the territorial integrity of ukraine and sanctions against russia. they should continue until we have a permanent agreement on the dombas region and crimea. it would be a strategic mistake to abandon sanctions against russia unless these issues are resolved with the consent of the ukrainian side.
dear ms. mogherini, i congratulate you on your appointment as high representative and i am pleased that you have replaced the baroness who has persistently ignored this parliament. i consider the president of the party that supports sanctions against russia and the annexation of crimea to be a violation of international law. but i would like to remind you that the eu's job is not to save or solve the economic problems of all the countries around it. the european union has a huge number of its own problems - huge debts, unemployment, stagnation. people who want to send money to ukraine do it from a foreign country, not from their own. the ukrainians are to blame for their economic problems, because for 20 years they elected governments that did not reform, but stole. if ukraine needs economic help today, we have the international monetary fund, of which all eu countries are members. if the european union continues to engage in this way, it will be experiencing its second greece.
madam president, solving the conflict in ukraine is the most urgent task. on the one hand i applaud the leadership of germany and france in their pursuit of a negotiated solution within the normandy format. i understand the demands of crisis management, but my fear is that, as a result, the institutions of our common foreign policy as provided for by the lisbon treaty are becoming marginalised. i would like to see the high representative, despite her comprehensive explanations, and the commission take on an even more prominent role. i would like to see the eu – as an autonomous strategic actor representing the interests of all its member states and its citizens – engaging with russia and ukraine. it will carry much more weight and legitimacy, which is what counts in geopolitics.
madam vice president, please. allow me to return to the influence of the office of the vice president. as we heard at the beginning of the speeches, i would like to join in the opinion that your office is being symbolically sidelined on the most important issue of the european union's foreign and security policy. you spoke of great power, global influence, which is a very good attitude. but once we get to the key issue, we see that the high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy doesn't even get a seat in the negotiations. i believe that not only the european parliament but also the majority of citizens of the european union have a vested interest in seeing your office in a stronger position. i think if we put more emphasis on this political expectation... (the president cut the speaker off)
written in the context of the european year for development, the eu does not forget to mention that it is 'the largest donor of official development assistance in the world' and that 'every euro spent on development' is intended to help people in poor countries and in the eu itself. while these statements sound good on paper, the reality is fundamentally different. for example, with eu development aid money in belarus, the belarusian secret services purchased equipment that was used to further oppress the local population. even more absurdly, development aid in ghana, africa, has ended. the european union has been sending millions of euros there for years, only to find out later that this money was supposed to go to people who didn't really exist. so the eu says that every euro of development aid helps, but in reality it cannot save even millions. moreover, eu development aid is also criticised from within the eu for example by the european court of auditors or in a 2012 european parliament report. the european year for development should thus serve as a warning against the often desperately ineffective development aid of the european union.
mr president, i would also like to thank mr wałęsa for the work he has done. i welcome the honourable ombudsman and wish her every success in her work. i asked to speak in order to confirm the findings of the parliamentary report. it is important to emphasise that the european ombudsman is a key institution for strengthening democracy in the eu. we promised eu citizens a more humane europe in the elections and strengthening and respecting eu citizens' rights is essential to delivering on this promise. the ultimate aim is to strengthen confidence in the european union, and if we succeed in that, we will all be successful. and if the ombudsman succeeds in making the european union's institutions more efficient and closer to the citizen, we will all be able to regard that as a success, and, of course, madam ombudsman, you can count on the support of all of us along the way. i also welcome the fact that the concept of visibility is one of the pillars of the ombudsman's strategy for 2019. as a representative of central europe, i see this as one of the greatest challenges: to make the eu's laws, and in particular the role of the european ombudsman, visible and tangible. we must do everything we can to make sure our message reaches the citizens. this is why it is important, for example, to make documents available in several languages. we must continue along this path, madam ombudsman, and i am not saying this to increase the workload for you and your office, but to make the european union as much of a community of informed citizens as possible. (the opponent agrees to answer a question for a blue card under article 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
that's a two-card answer. mr president, i would like to answer the following. by central europe, by central eastern europe, i mean primarily the post-communist countries. i said it was very important that the role of the ombudsman and the role of human rights be made clear to people because people in former communist countries are socialized differently. they don't have the democratic sense that western european countries have, where there hasn't been a 40-50-year hiatus. i therefore think it is extremely important that we, the representatives and citizens of the 10 member states that joined in 2004, raise awareness of this and talk about these issues in the media at home.
in writing. – the situation in russia, with regards to respecting human rights and legal procedures, is worrying. apart from its violent international excursions, annexation of crimea and support to paramilitaries in eastern ukraine, russia has been continuously and systematically curtailing its own political dissent and civil society, contrary to all international obligations that stem from its membership in the coe and the osce. basic freedoms of its citizens are constantly challenged. this time, the target is alexej navalny. his biggest ‘guilt’ and ‘fault’ is that he is someone gaining in popularity, possibly endangering the political dominance exerted by president putin and his allies. while jailing might not be on the table for the moment, different innovative tactics are used by the government to assure that all opposition voices are effectively marginalised and, eventually, silenced. this contributes to creating a society which is forced into auto-censorship. i believe that this house is the right institution to strongly oppose moves by the government which lead to creating an atmosphere of fear in society. we stand with those who want to see russia move away from authoritarian practice and those who want to see a functioning, impartial and independent judiciary.
in writing political pressure and influence on courts and judges undermine the functioning of the state's judiciary and the legal certainty of citizens, whose constitutional and legal rights become arbitrarily interpreted, relativized and ultimately denied. alexei navalny's case has become another of many disturbing cases of manipulation of the administration of justice in court proceedings in russia. it should be in russia's interest to remedy such a situation promptly and thus bring the administration of justice in line with its international obligations arising from full membership of the council of europe and the organisation for security and cooperation in europe and the united nations. for the above reasons, i support the adoption of the european parliament resolution on the situation in russia.
the brutal massacre of 132 innocent children on december 16 at a pakistani school has deeply saddened me. it was done by the taliban, the isis branch in pakistan, and it's something brutal, something unacceptable. there's nothing sadder in the world than the death of a child. it's an act of violence against schoolchildren, it's an attack against the future of children, against the future of this country. i would therefore like to express my sincere condolences and solidarity to the families affected and to honour the memory of all the children who have died. this heinous act of terrorism in peshawar has become a pressing challenge and an urgent solution to the global problem of terrorism and violent extremism and, in particular, to the heightened security situation in pakistan. i therefore join in and appeal to the commissioner to make the commitment of the european parliament heard in the commission, so that we all act together.
in writing this annual report covers only part of the work of this office under the new ombudsman, as she was elected only in mid-2013, and thus also the work of her predecessor in this post. it is very important that the institution of the european ombudsman is as open as possible to the public and that citizens feel that this institution is helping them and is available to them at all times. citizens are turning to this institution with increasing numbers of requests and it is therefore necessary for it to work quickly and efficiently. it is very important that the ombudsman's office be more visible, relevant and influential in the future, given its budget of eur 10 million.
in writing - the european ombudsman's institute is an important instrument for investigating and verifying the transparency, impartiality and correctness of the procedures of the eu institutions, bodies, offices and agencies. it is therefore important that the ep is kept fully informed of the results of the ombudsman's work. it is one of the control mechanisms that checks how the various eu institutions function and proceed in their work and how the european ombudsman's office itself carries out its work. in the interest of the eu's citizens, there is a need to raise awareness of the european ombudsman's tasks and competences and the results of her work so that the institution can be used to enhance the protection of rights and legitimate interests. it is also important to strengthen communication within the european network of ombudsmen.
in writing i welcome the ombudsman's annual report for 2013, which brings many positive results, jointly earned by emily o'reilly and her predecessor nikiforos diamandouros. i particularly appreciate the ombudsman's activities in publishing information and texts relating to the eu-us transatlantic trade and investment partnership, known as ttip, given the potential impact of this agreement on many areas of european citizens' lives, including health and food safety. like the ombudsman, i believe that there is a need to guarantee the transparency of the negotiations, to allow wider access to further documents and to ensure that citizens are sufficiently informed about the impact of the agreement on their rights and legitimate interests. i therefore voted in favour of the ombudsman's annual report.
in writing. the ombudsman's role is to raise citizens' concerns, and the reports of recent years have shown that the transparency of the european institutions has taken a positive turn. we all know the basic principle that every citizen of the european union has the right to access documents of the institutions and offices of the union. i therefore think that the other party's attitude is unacceptable in the case of the tftp (terrorist finance tracking program agreement) between the european union and the united states, where the european ombudsman is not allowed to inspect and look at documents under the agreed contract. in the future, we will have to be much more careful in drafting and signing international treaties. the european parliament should have a much greater role in the preparation of international treaties. i hope that, having learned from our mistakes, we will be more cautious in future when signing agreements that have a major impact on our citizens, such as ttip. i therefore think it is good that the european commission will publish more documents on the bilateral negotiations and, possibly, on the lobby groups involved, so that citizens and all members of parliament are well informed and the fiasco mentioned above cannot happen again.
in writing first of all, i would like to congratulate emily o'reilly on her first annual report as ombudsman. i appreciate its efforts to maintain positive relations and cooperation with the european parliament and i strongly believe that cooperation with the european parliament and the other institutions will only increase in the future. i also support its efforts to strengthen structures and institutions to increase transparency in the eu and improve public administration as well as the quality of democracy.
in writing i voted in favour of the adoption of the annual report as i think that ombudsman o'reilly is doing a good job in her role. despite the relatively limited powers of this function, o'reilly tries to use his office as effectively as possible. in particular, i welcome its 'towards 2019' strategy, which is built on impact, relevance and visibility. in fact, i consider the lack of public awareness of the possibilities of the ombudsman's function to be one of the biggest obstacles to its full potential.
libya is divided by the fight between the secular and the islamist factions. the talks scheduled for next week are unlikely to resolve the stalemate in a country that currently has two governments and two parliaments. the question also hangs over the contribution of nato's operation united protector. multiple figures indicate that over 1,000 civilians have already been killed in the military operations. the international community must do more to seek an end to the armed conflict between the internationally recognised government and parliament and the islamists and their allies.
in writing although nearly four years have passed since the libyan uprising and the overthrow of the gaddafi regime, the power struggle between rival factions continues and has escalated into destructive chaos. the south of the country is becoming a free-for-all for isis supporters, with the rest of the country divided between rival factions. the political situation is also unclear. the house of representatives, elected last june, was overturned by the supreme court in november. the government actually only controls the eastern part of the country. then there's the congress, elected in 2012, which people took to the streets against last year. the complex political and economic situation is creating fertile ground for the growth of extremism not only at home but also abroad, including through the uncontrolled sale of arms. it is estimated that there are up to 40 million guns available in the country, which are also sold beyond libya's borders. the victims of this destabilisation are mainly the country's ordinary population, including women seeking to participate in political life. however, citizens of other countries who are targeted by terrorist attacks by supporters of the islamic state may also become victims. i therefore fully support the resolution adopted to impose sanctions on those libyan political leaders who are responsible for this situation.
the conflict in eastern ukraine has claimed more than 4700 lives since the start of the government forces' counter-terrorist operation against pro-russian separatists. the tough clashes around donbas and the cancellation of the planned peace summit in astana do not give cause for optimism. the reason for the cancellation of the planned meeting of political leaders is the continuous violation of the ceasefire by both parties involved and the resulting non-compliance with the minsk peace agreement. at present, it is not even realistic to fulfill one of the points of the minsk memorandum on the withdrawal of illegal armed groups from the country's territory. the newly elected ukrainian government must take radical steps to continue reforms and ensure an early resolution of the conflict in the interests of the citizens.
in writing. the european parliament's stand with ukraine is very important, which is why i voted for this resolution. the war in ukraine is raging and the number of civilian casualties is increasing, and we must act with strength and unity. yesterday pro-russian separatists killed 11 civilians at donetsk, and the fighting continues for the airport. meanwhile, russia is in a very difficult economic situation, and the sanctions are making it unclear how to get out of the crisis. this did not motivate putin to move forward with the peace talks with ukraine, which were frozen in berlin. but the war had not only devastated the people of ukraine, who were horrified by the weapons, but it had also left the already weak economy in virtual ruins. and this letter is not for the ukrainian oligarchs to drink, but for the ukrainian people. i hope that we will continue to be able to reach a common position on the eu-russia relationship. since the signing of the association agreement with ukraine, we have had an increased responsibility to promote peace. and it looks like it's going to be possible on the economy side.
in writing. we must condemn the attack on the ukrainian bus on tuesday as we condemned the events in paris. the clear blame for the deaths of the ten people lies with president putin, who cannot find the political courage to stop supporting the separatists. only then can the peace process begin.
in writing although the parliamentary elections held in ukraine last october gave hope of positive developments in our eastern neighbour, the current situation in this post-soviet country remains very serious. the ongoing ceasefire, the growing humanitarian disaster, with thousands of people cut off from food, medicine and heat, and the escalating information warfare by russia are the realities of today. the european union therefore has no choice but to maintain sanctions against russia in order to resolve the complex situation beyond its eastern borders. the sanctions could only be eased or lifted if the ceasefire is respected, all russian troops and illegal armed groups withdraw unconditionally from ukraine, all prisoners are exchanged and ukraine regains control over all its territory, including crimea. in the meantime, it is our moral duty to support the reform efforts of the ukrainian government as well as the conflict-affected citizens of ukraine.
in writing the human rights situation in egypt has continued to deteriorate since the 2013 armed coup. according to available reports and information, there are currently more than 40 000 000 political prisoners in the country, hundreds of whom are on death row. these are mainly members of the muslim brotherhood, which has been designated as a terrorist group by government officials. freedom of expression is severely restricted. the regime of abdel fattah el-sisi has also focused its attention on various groups of the population, such as the lgbt community, to gain political points in a country that is deeply conservative. the democratic parliamentary elections, which are due to take place by march 2015, are highly questionable, as they are highly unlikely to meet even the minimum standards for democratic and free elections. a political regime in the country that persecutes the opposition and civil society does not bring prosperity and stability to the country in the long run, but instead opens the door to extremism and violence.
in writing i consider the adoption last year of a new constitution in egypt, which enshrines the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens, to be a significant step towards the democratisation of egyptian society. the real challenge, however, remains how to translate the noble principles of law into everyday life and, above all, into the functioning of the judiciary, which is supposed to guarantee a fair trial and equality before the law for all. in this regard, i find highly disturbing the mass arrests and mass trials of large numbers of accused in which their procedural rights cannot be adequately guaranteed, as well as the frequent imposition of death sentences, a practice that the eu has long condemned as incompatible with the fundamental human right to life. i stress that egypt's long-term stability, security and prosperity depend on the confidence of its citizens in the state establishment and its officials. however, such trust cannot be earned without the safeguarding of fundamental human rights and freedoms by transparent state bodies and institutions headed by an independent and impartial judiciary. i therefore urge egypt to fully apply the legal principles of international conventions while respecting its international obligations.
in writing on 15 february 2012, two local fishermen were killed in international waters and two italian naval officers, massimiliano latorre and salvatore girone, were charged. these eu citizens have been detained in india for three years. given the location of the italian oil tanker, the case should be referred to the permanent court of arbitration established by the hague peace conference, and that court should deal with and assess the case as a matter of the utmost urgency. it is very regrettable that the indian authorities are acting very ineffectively and slowly and after three years we are still waiting for the outcome of the dispute.
in writing the detention of two italian seamen in india following the february 2012 incident continues despite no formal charges being brought and no internationally recognised standards of detention being met. india prides itself on being the world's largest democracy. i would stress, however, that a democratic state is not just one that has formally adopted democratic principles, but one that systematically makes a real effort to put them into practice for the good of its citizens. the rule of law lies at the heart of all democratic institutions and one of its fundamental pillars is legal certainty and due process. the violation of the right to a fair trial is unfortunately a common practice and its victims are mostly indian citizens themselves, who spend decades in detention before being brought to trial and awaiting sentencing. two european citizens have been denied their fundamental rights for three years. they live in uncertainty about how many more years they will have to serve in india's prisons, with conditions described as deplorable by many human rights organizations. evidence may include the fact that one of them has already suffered a heart attack and is in serious health. i therefore join the call for the fundamental procedural rights of these two citizens to be respected and for this matter to be dealt with as a matter of priority.
in writing - i support a massive investment programme that will end the dramatic decline in investment and increase growth potential and employment. europe urgently needs investment in transport, energy, telecommunications infrastructure, digital, cultural and creative industries, education, science, research and innovation. the commission needs to ensure that private investment is also made in regions hard hit by the crisis. the commission needs to prepare changes in tax policy that will lead to an effective fight against tax evasion, tax fraud and aggressive tax planning. we need the commission to prepare legislative proposals for the creation of an energy union. the commission cannot itself put a role on the agenda to pursue the agenda of the own resources system, which is essential for the better functioning of europe. it must be given this task by the council or by the european parliament. since no such thing has come from the council, it is necessary to approve such a task in our resolution.
in writing i welcome the commission's determination to bring about change and simplify proposals that are primarily aimed at reducing red tape and making life easier for economic operators. it is important to put the economy first and to include the development of digital markets and the creation of better conditions for individual sectors of the economy as well as the increase of foreign trade. the commission should also focus from the outset on improving the environment for job creation. the commission's first year of work is crucial to delivering on the objectives that all eu citizens expect.
in writing, the commission refers to this year's programme as a 'new start'. but while some differences can be seen from the previous european commission, real change is unlikely to come. the european commission continues to rely on the mistaken belief that growth and employment can be promoted by bureaucratic redistribution rather than by greater economic freedom and the market. the juncker investment package is therefore also intended to be one of the key measures of the current commission.
the political groups in the european parliament were unable to reach a common position on the work programme of the new commission for 2015. all the political groups tabled their own resolutions, which were voted on separately, with none of them receiving a majority of the members. the cor welcomes the commission's commitment to withdraw legislative proposals that have become outdated, redundant or where it is not possible to reach a political consensus. i personally agree with commissioner timmermans that the fact that the union considers a problem to be important does not mean that it has to adopt new legislation automatically in relation to it. in our resolution, we stress the need to eliminate the bureaucratic burden on smes, in particular by regularly evaluating the added value of individual policies in order to meet the needs of our time and its citizens. we are also looking critically at juncker's investment package and will be closely monitoring its implementation. it is not clear how the commission intends to mobilise private investment, nor on the basis of which criteria it plans to select and prioritise the projects applying for support from this package.
in writing, the european union is founded on the principles of liberty, democracy and respect for human rights and freedoms and must therefore condemn any manifestation of human rights violations. the right to freedom of expression is a fundamental human right protected not only by the laws of every democratic country but also by international treaties and conventions. all eu member states guarantee these rights to their citizens. the european union respects the identity not only of its member states but also of other countries in the world. but it cannot tolerate violations of basic human rights. the rule of law must not abuse the law to the detriment of its citizens.
the 2014 progress report of turkey shows that turkey is moving away from the principles laid down in the european convention on human rights, in particular in the key areas of the judiciary and freedom of expression. the adoption of an action plan on breaches of the european convention on human rights and the reduction of the duration of pre-trial detention merely formally resolves the difficult situation, but the legislation adopted, which the action plan is supposed to fulfil, is carried out in the opposite spirit. i am particularly concerned about the weakening of the independence and impartiality of the judiciary, which does not guarantee the right to a fair trial or respect for the rights of the accused. in conjunction with arbitrary raids and arrests of journalists, the very foundations of the democratic functioning of the state, which is characteristic of all developed countries, are being violated. i therefore vote in favour of the adoption of the european parliament resolution on freedom of expression in turkey and call on turkey to fully guarantee the rule of law and fundamental human rights, including freedom of thought, expression and the media.
in writing human rights and respect for them are among the eu's core values. turkey, as a candidate country, has a long history of disrespecting freedom of speech and freedom of the press and cracking down on critical media. it is necessary to promote political dialogue, to reinvigorate efforts to reform the rule of law and, in particular, to respect fundamental human rights.
in writing in recent days, arrests of journalists and editors of turkish media have taken place in turkey, pointing to the increasing trend of authoritarianism and intolerance by president recep tayyip erdogan and his ruling akp party. these attacks on freedom of expression and freedom of the media clearly indicate the lack of interest of the turkish ruling party in carrying out democratic reforms. freedom of the media is one of the fundamental values of the european union, which turkey, as a country seeking to integrate into european structures, should respect. it is precisely such undemocratic actions by the turkish government that could lead to the suspension of the association negotiations, which would be counterproductive for all parties involved and for common interests such as the fight against is.
in writing. despite turkey's long-standing claim to be one of the most democratic and advanced countries in europe and its aspirations to join the union, the situation of freedom of expression and freedom of the media in turkey is more than alarming. three years ago, the european federation of journalists pointed out that up to 100 journalists are being imprisoned for alleged attempted coups, and writers and intellectuals who choose to publicly express critical political views are also persecuted. despite several mobilization campaigns and warnings from western countries, the situation in turkey in this area has not improved in recent years. in the past year, many journalists have been persecuted and detained for reporting on the involvement of high-ranking political officials in a major corruption scandal. the public authority did not invoke the truth or falsity of the journalist's claims, but the court's prohibition to provide any information about this corruption case in relation to the politicians mentioned. this practice of intimidating journalists (acting in the public interest), confiscating their computers, databases, not allowing them to write freely is unacceptable and i therefore fully support the resolution condemning this situation and calling on the turkish government officials to establish genuine freedom of speech and freedom of the media.
we have stabilised europe in the face of the crisis. but we risk stagnating for years. we therefore need new impulses aimed at economic growth and employment. since 2008, investment in the eu has fallen by more than 15%. high-return investments are the best medicine for economic growth and employment. the situation in europe requires a combination of measures: the juncker package investments must go hand in hand with the removal of barriers to investment, making europe more attractive and multiplying the impact of the investment plan; draghi's plan to inject over a trillion euros into euro area countries (this is about the annual tax evasion in the eu); euro funds for high value-added investments; economic reforms in the eu countries; the fight against tax evasion and fraud in all its forms; in every corner of europe.
the european fund for strategic investments is in its infancy, but it has already had many critics and opponents. but critics offer no other solutions. i support juncker's proposal because, after years of economic stagnation in europe, it is necessary to allow for the mobilisation of additional investment, to maximise the impact of public investment and to unlock private investment. the investment plan should allow for the financing of the real economy through a transparent database containing viable projects at eu level. the new fund will support strategic investments in infrastructure. it will also support risk finance for smes and mid-caps. today, there are almost 2000 projects on the list of potential investment projects. slovakia sent 150 projects worth a total of €29 billion and i believe that when the final selection is made, we will have successful projects that will contribute to growth and job creation in my country as well.
in writing. global warming is largely caused by human activities, not by natural climate fluctuations. at present, we have little prospect of avoiding dramatic consequences, as the struggle for water, for resources, for hunger and extreme weather are intertwined in destructive processes. the biosphere is able to absorb a smaller and smaller proportion of the increasing carbon dioxide emissions. while air temperatures have not risen in recent years, the heat capacity of the system is constantly increasing because of greenhouse gases. globally, it is not a solution either for large companies to move to countries that are more permissive than eu standards and continue their polluting activities there. the european union has always been at the forefront of the fight against climate change. i believe that this is a question that cannot be avoided and that is why it is important to coordinate our action with economic life as soon as possible. we need to develop an environmental action plan that significantly reduces carbon emissions, while increasing our competitiveness, creating new jobs and generating economic benefits for europe.
the growth of the internet economy in the european union is forecast to be almost 11%. the contribution to gdp will increase to 5,7% over the last five years. for example, smes that are heavy users of the internet are growing at almost twice the rate of other smes. the internet has become an important part of our economy at all levels, and it should be supported. but unconditional freedom is also used by outlaws. that's how you get terrorist sites, forums, or child pornography on the internet. so, in addition to supporting the independence of the internet, i have to say that we need to put more emphasis on security, on controlling unwanted content and on consumer protection.
it's a two-card draw. i would like to ask the honourable member if she has considered how such a law or such a change would reorganise the whole market, the market for agricultural meat production. and how much, how much unnecessary relocation would that lead to in terms of meat production. so you were talking about animals in trucks. let us think back to how much the european union supports diversification, that is, the spatial distribution of livestock production, precisely in order to protect, for example, our groundwater or to protect the quality of our soil. and if we focus this on the places where the meat products themselves are going to be produced, we're going to back off. take denmark, for example, where they're pushing for diversification, for moving livestock farming further away.
it's a two-card draw. i would like to ask the honourable member whether she does not feel that these steps represent the de-liberalisation of the european internal market. would it be acceptable to you, for example, that after an egg scandal, the origin of the eggs, then the milk and then the flour should be indicated on each product? and it would completely cripple the efficient sourcing of raw materials in the food industry in europe.
mr. president, i have to ask you... you'd think the time for conception litigation in the european union would be over. unfortunately, this is not the case in slovakia. malina hedvig's name is known in this house. in 2006, a hungarian student in slovakia was beaten up for speaking hungarian on the street. a few days later, the political leadership changed the victim from a suspect to a suspect, claiming that the girl had made up the whole story and accused her of perjury. since then, malina hedvig has been vindicated by the strasbourg court, and slovakian citizens of all nationalities have demonstrated in mass to support her. and finally, recently, the good news came home, the trial court rejected the charge of perjury. the nine years of continuous hanging have not ended. last week, it emerged that the state's attorney appealed and is putting malina hedvig back on the stand. i would like to say to slovakia and the other eu member states that not only the politician but the state itself, in which a citizen can be dragged into such a situation for the sake of votes or allegedly in the interests of state security, will lose all credibility.
mr president, last week the united kingdom’s house of commons voted to permit the genetic modification of humans as the first nation to do so worldwide. it is ethically and legally unacceptable to permit the creation of embryos with dna from three parents. there is no such medical technique or treatment which could permit us to cross this internationally agreed principle of non-modification of the human germ line. therefore i would like to remind our british colleagues of their commitment to comply with the charter of fundamental rights as well as european legislation on clinical trials, both of which prohibit heritable modifications to the human genome. last week, 50 meps signed a letter of profound concern over this technique called mitochondrial replacement and this week a new initiative to condemn such a breach was launched again in parliament. let us say a strong ʽnoʼ to designer babies.
member of the commission. - madam president, i will do my introduction in english and will give my answers as usual in dutch. allow me to present to you a proposal which the commission adopted last wednesday on youth employment. since i came to office as the new commissioner for employment, social affairs, skills and labour mobility, i have made the fight against youth unemployment my first priority. more than five million young people in europe do not have a job at this moment. this is around one in five of young people in europe. in some member states we are facing youth unemployment rates of around 50%. moreover, today 7.5 million people between 15 and 24 years old are not in employment, education or training and risk being socially and economically excluded, with all the dramatic consequences for themselves and for our society. this is unacceptable. this is why, in its work programme for 2015, the commission committed to taking initiatives to promote integration and employability in the labour market, including measures to support member states in getting young people into work. as you know, the youth employment initiative was established following the urgent call from the european council in february 2013 to address the unprecedented levels of youth unemployment in certain regions of the european union most affected by this phenomenon. this budget line of eur 3.2 billion, to be matched with funding from the european social fund, is dedicated to actions targeting individual young people who are neither in employment, education or training. therefore, it contributes to the implementation of the youth employment guarantee, in line with the council’s recommendation of 22 april 2013. however, despite the provisions already in place to frontload this initiative, and an early eligibility date for expenditure – 1 september 2013 – progress has not yet lived up to expectations. the initial pre-financing amount of 1% – and 1.5% in the member states in the programme – proved to be too low to roll out the initiative, particularly to those member states that have significant budgetary constraints. this proposal aims, therefore, to tackle this deficiency by setting an adequate level of pre-financing for the youth employment initiative. the increased financing proposed will amount to around eur 1 billion – 30% of the specific allocation – instead of the current eur 39 million. based on the targets set by member states in their operational programmes, we expect that, with this additional pre-financing, up to 650 000 young people will be able to rapidly receive support. i would like to underline again that the pre-financing proposal does not impact on the budgetary allocations for the youth employment initiative in 2015, or the multiannual financial framework overall. neither does it affect pre-financing payments from other funds or under operational programmes that are not relevant for the initiative. the urgency to adopt this proposal is justified by the figures. the longer we wait to act, the harder it becomes to help the young generation. i would like, therefore, to ask you to join me in the effort to make this proposal a reality for young people and to ensure that this additional funding can be converted as soon as possible into a concrete job, education or training offer for young people. (applause)
for the ecr group it is good news that the commission has decided to focus on young people. we know the amazing things our young people can do when given the opportunity, but we also know how much entire nations can suffer if young people are not given the opportunity to develop their work potential in time. the aim of the guarantee is to ensure that young people do not remain inactive for more than four months and get a job, a traineeship or further education. the funds are now being released for this purpose and the instruction is: expedite implementation. but do member states have the capacity to use them meaningfully? sadly, the answer to that question is not clear. i understand if the commission needs to show that it is proactive and quick, but my concerns about the unwise use of accelerated payments remain. the programme is in danger of going the easy way: by pointlessly subsidising the rapid creation of, unfortunately, often temporary jobs. the problem of unemployment does not begin at the employment office, but much, much earlier. for example, when a child from a bad social environment doesn't get into kindergarten, when a child does get into school, but for years he learns old and unusable theory. when college doesn't even know about working with real business. and then, in the worst case, graduates end up in the office working and meeting people who don't know how to help them. for example, did you know that in slovakia there are sometimes up to 700 unemployed people for every civil servant? so if the commission today is proud of the speed of its work, i am more concerned about dishonesty. i think it is unfair that employment is being tackled in the regions with the greatest problems too quickly, with questionable implementation capacities. i think it is equally questionable to pour money into often helpless states to subsidize jobs. i understand the commission's intention, but i'm concerned about the outcome in reality. so i'm gonna be very careful with my colleagues setting up the control system. to pour money into a broken system without structural change would be a disappointment to all of us.
to think that with one billion euros you can create hundreds of thousands of jobs is a pure illusion. you probably don't believe that yourself. the commission promised new beginnings, and yet you can only do the same thing over and over again. you just keep putting more and more money into more and more programs. this doesn't work, but look at the bad situation today. politicians can't create jobs. politicians can only create the conditions for job creation. therefore, the only solution is to reduce the regulatory burden. the european union is the most regulated economic area in the world. there's the problem. not whether you give a billion or two or ten. we've been through all that. you have to improve the business environment, and in doing so, you also save a lot of money that can be left to entrepreneurs. they know best.
in writing there are more than seven million unemployed young people in the european union. the most vulnerable are those who lack the necessary qualifications. young people with the necessary qualifications and training are better integrated into the labour market. we want to provide pre-funding to give young people a chance this year. the youth employment initiative will complement the funding provided by the european social fund in member states whose regions are struggling with youth unemployment rates above 25%. 20 eu countries are involved in this initiative. the good news is that the project has the support of the left, the right and the european liberals in the european parliament.
, in writing. i welcome this report, which seems to have finally put an end to a process that has been going on since 2007. unfortunately, however, only the prospect of hard material attractions provides sufficient incentive to observe the prescribed speed limits and to continue to behave lawfully. i therefore urge the launch of a comprehensive campaign, which can be used in education and later in the media, to encourage citizens to think responsibly and thus prevent accidents. it is a fact that in our member states, foreigners cause a disproportionate number of road accidents. the knowledge that it would be too difficult for local police to collect fines for violations of the law motivates many motorists to apply more pressure to the accelerator. if all this is true, this era is over and police cooperation in this area between member states is moving to a higher level. we hope this will contribute to our target of reducing road fatalities by 50% by 2020.
i see the war in ukraine as a tragedy. i'm sorry that there are christians on both sides with guns. history is repeating itself. in 1939, a special group of abwehr and ss men dressed in polish uniforms attacked a radio station in gliwice. so she gave hitler the excuse to invade poland. today, unmarked russian soldiers are crossing the ukrainian-russian border, joining forces with novorussian separatists to attack the ukrainian military and civilians. the situation is very complicated, but it is necessary to negotiate peace and to use all the possibilities. if russia does not change its policy, it may increase political and economic pressure. but europe must act as one in this situation. some member states deliberately question the decisive role of russia in this armed conflict. the eu should not tolerate this, but if we allow war in ukraine, we allow war in the european union.
in writing. the cessation of the conflict in eastern ukraine is one of the greatest challenges the union has faced so far in its neighbourhood policy. unless it de-escalates in the near future, it's possible that it could spiral out of control. the further consequences can be disastrous. the solution will not be easy, but it is not impossible. the basis must be the preservation of the territorial integrity and respect for the sovereignty of ukraine, together with the efforts to avoid a further frozen conflict. the initiative of chancellor merkel and president hollande and their offer to negotiate with russia should be welcomed. i hope that further discussions will lead to concrete solutions. i think that sanctions against russia should be maintained with the possibility of their extension until a constructive approach is shown, which is essential to resolve the ukrainian crisis. we also need to call for the implementation of the minsk agreements. finally, i would like to stress that this crisis is also our crisis and that we need unity within the union to solve it.
in writing the basis for a peaceful solution is the implementation of the minsk agreements, which guarantee the preservation of ukraine's territorial integrity while satisfying the demands of the russian-speaking population. however, a ceasefire is needed to implement it, which is not possible without stopping russian military support to the separatists. the european union must use all peaceful means to stop russian aggression and violations of international agreements.
in writing. i am fully aware of the gravity of the situation in ukraine and support all efforts to find a peaceful solution, including eu sanctions against russia. i also condemn the annexation of crimea as a step that was contrary to international law. but i fundamentally disagree with all the european union's efforts to provide financial assistance to ukraine so far. the reason for the bad economic situation in ukraine is not the conflict with russia, but the long-term neglect of reforms and corruption by all ukrainian governments over the past 20 years. the european union's loans cannot solve this situation, but only real reforms that will lead to greater competitiveness of ukraine. the international monetary fund, which has been far more successful than the european union in rescuing troubled countries, should therefore continue to play this role.
when i received a book called the flower of the desert by waris dirie years ago, i must admit that i was shocked. i had never heard of female circumcision. her autobiographical account only increased my horror. it was not fiction, but a harsh reality. and that reality persists to this day. even today, hundreds of thousands of girls, both young and old, are subjected to this barbaric and unprecedented procedure every year. and besides some ritual practice, it has no religious basis and is not a medically approved procedure. quite the opposite. many girls bleed to death during the procedure, while others suffer daily pain for the rest of their lives. they're struggling not only with inflammation, but with indescribable pain from ordinary urination or menstruation. but the scars remain not only on the body but also on the soul. it is therefore our duty to condemn this ritual mutilation and to call on other african countries to follow the example of ethiopia and côte d'ivoire by banning female circumcision by law, with severe punishment for the perpetrators. since, unfortunately, these practices are also occurring in europe, we must do everything possible to prevent such procedures from taking place in our countries and to punish not only those who carry them out but also the parents who allow their daughter to be mutilated.
the mutilation of the human body is reprehensible. and while i have great respect for a person's religious feelings and beliefs, i must emphasize that it is not mandated by any of the world's religions, including islam. i cannot recall exactly how many times we have discussed this subject in the european parliament over the last ten years. we held conferences and passed resolutions. but this debate has shown that we have not gone far. my opposition to female circumcision is very strong. i support all the tools and policies that will increase prevention while affecting everyone involved in the effort. but i do not agree that the effort to end this barbaric practice should be used as a pretext to press for the accelerated ratification of the 2010 istanbul convention. this is entirely a matter for the member states and the commission has no right to put any pressure on them in this respect.
the application of the hague convention helps to ensure the prompt return of illegally removed or detained children. the accession of eight more countries to the convention is good news for children, as it means more protection and legal certainty for them. families with parents from different countries are growing, and these families are not getting out of the way through conflict and separation. sometimes, kidnapping a child abroad can be part of these disputes. but i know from experience that sometimes it can be a short-term procedure where the parent doesn't realize that traveling without the other parent's consent can be required for kidnapping. i believe that these are the kinds of situations that we should try to prevent. wherever possible, let us focus on preventing and consistently informing about the possible consequences of abducting children abroad. i believe that this will at least partially prevent the kidnapping and help protect the best interests of the child.
madam president, madam commissioner, at a time when travel is becoming easier and easier and intermarriage is commonplace, it is important to continue to press all governments to take up the matter and ratify this convention. until this is done, many children will continue to live lives they did not choose and see their dreams turned into lost illusions, even nightmares. we all know, in this room, that at the moment when he needs a family to build his life, the kidnapped child experiences a real trauma, devastating psychological violence. not only are they forced into a new country, a new culture, and sometimes a new language, but they are deprived of one of their parents, of part of their family. all these things are a clear threat to the well-being of the child, and they must be actively combated. that is why i am pleased that countries such as morocco and gabon are joining the list of signatories. in these times of extreme tension on the african continent, these two countries are leading the way, and we must support them so that they can lead others in their wake. the scourge of kidnapping must be fought with greater force because let us not forget that on the african continent... (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i agree with you about the rescue policy. but you're asking for a debt-free loan. but it is not only germany that has money in greece, it is not only germany that will lose money, slovakia too. the czech republic is not, but slovenia and other countries are. how does slovakia get us to send you money? i'd like to ask you that.
in writing the subject of international child abduction largely concerns spouses or couples in which individuals from different countries around the world decide to take advantage of the situation by illegally adopting a child after a divorce or separation. such situations are helped by the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. children often become a means of settling scores between spouses or former partners of different nationalities. the courts of individual countries, often outside the european union, often subsequently, due to certain national tendencies, grant custody to a parent who is a citizen of the country to which the court belongs. the convention deals with such situations in such a way that the court of the state of the child's habitual residence decides on the child's allocation, irrespective of where one of the parents has been taken. the eu now has exclusive external competence in this area, as confirmed by the court of justice. this means that member states no longer act on their own discretion. it is therefore necessary to adopt a council decision requiring the member states to accept, on their own territory, the accession of gabon to the convention and, consequently, the effective entry into force of the convention between the european union and that state. the adoption of the convention will ensure increased protection for children who are in any way connected with the gabonese community.
in writing i welcome the accession of gabon to the hague convention. children who are connected in some way to the gabonese community will thus be protected from abduction. any initiative that succeeds in widening the number of countries acceding to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction should be supported. this will increase the protection of children in the event of abduction on the territory of the contracting states and may thus help to speed up the return of the child to his or her natural environment. it is therefore necessary to seek the most effective ways of addressing international child abduction in order to protect children and strengthen their rights.
in writing. these reports, however technical, draw attention to a situation that is becoming more and more topical. all statistics show that marriages are breaking up more and more frequently around the world. and the direct consequence of that is that children are being beaten up. of course, the accession of these countries to the hague convention is welcome, since the most important thing in such cases is that the child is placed as soon as possible in a stable, peaceful, loving environment. as europeans committed to our fundamental values, including the rights of the child, we can also see these accessions as a reminder to always have the best interests of the child at heart in our procedural law and practice. i therefore urge that, at least in the relations between the eu member states, we go beyond the standards of the international convention. minimize the administrative burden of the procedure, avoid using language requirements to delay the procedure and ensure that it is carried out quickly and carefully.
in writing - it is essential that the provisions of this convention on preventing and preventing international child abduction apply also to other countries which have not yet committed themselves to it or have only acceded to it. that's why i voted yes. it should be stressed that even in these very complex family law situations, often with a strong geopolitical context, where national courts tend to make decisions in an unbiased manner, it is always necessary to take account of the rights, welfare and dignity of children at all costs. the child may not be abused in any way and may not be subjected to emotional, psychological or physical suffering. and not even in a situation where an adult is trying to claim a so-called 'right to a child'. the child is not a commodity to be used as a commodity or a tool for the exploitation of others, as is often the case in these cases. the best interests of the child must always and everywhere come first.
in writing the subject of international child abduction largely concerns spouses or couples in which individuals from different countries around the world decide to take advantage of the situation by illegally adopting a child after a divorce or separation. such situations are helped by the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. children often become a means of settling scores between spouses or former partners of different nationalities. the courts of individual countries, often outside the european union, often subsequently, due to certain national tendencies, grant custody to a parent who is a citizen of the country to which the court belongs. the convention deals with such situations in such a way that the court of the state of the child's habitual residence decides on the child's allocation, irrespective of where one of the parents has been taken. the eu now has exclusive external competence in this area, as confirmed by the court of justice. this means that member states no longer act on their own discretion. it is therefore necessary to adopt a council decision requiring the member states to accept, on their own territory, the accession of andorra to the convention and thus the effective entry into force of the convention between the european union and that state. the adoption of this convention will ensure increased protection for children who are in any way connected with the andorran community.
in writing i welcome the accession of andorra to the hague convention. many citizens of andorran origin also live in the eu. children who are connected in some way to the andorran community will be protected from abduction. any initiative that succeeds in widening the number of countries acceding to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction should be supported. this will increase the protection of children in the event of abduction on the territory of the contracting states and may thus help to speed up the return of the child to his or her natural environment. it is therefore necessary to seek the most effective ways of addressing international child abduction in order to protect children and strengthen their rights.
in writing it is essential that the provisions of this convention on preventing and preventing international child abduction apply also to other countries which have not yet committed themselves to it or have only acceded to it. that's why i voted yes. it should be stressed that even in these very complex family law situations, often with a strong geopolitical context, where national courts tend to make decisions in an unbiased manner, it is always necessary to take account of the rights, welfare and dignity of children at all costs. the child may not be abused in any way and may not be subjected to emotional, psychological or physical suffering. and not even in a situation where an adult is trying to claim a so-called 'right to a child'. the child is not a commodity to be used as a commodity or a tool for the exploitation of others, as is often the case in these cases. the best interests of the child must always and everywhere come first.
in writing the subject of international child abduction largely concerns spouses or couples in which individuals from different countries around the world decide to take advantage of the situation by illegally adopting a child after a divorce or separation. such situations are helped by the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. children often become a means of settling scores between spouses or former partners of different nationalities. the courts of individual countries, often outside the european union, often subsequently, due to certain national tendencies, grant custody to a parent who is a citizen of the country to which the court belongs. the convention deals with such situations in such a way that the court of the state of the child's habitual residence decides on the child's allocation, irrespective of where one of the parents has been taken. the eu now has exclusive external competence in this area, as confirmed by the court of justice. this means that member states no longer act on their own discretion. it is therefore necessary to adopt a council decision requiring the member states to accept, on their own territory, the accession of the republic of seychelles to the convention and, consequently, the effective entry into force of the convention between the european union and that state. the adoption of the convention in question will ensure enhanced protection for children who are in any way connected with the seychelles community.
in writing i welcome the accession of the republic of seychelles to the hague convention. children who are connected in some way to the seychelles community will thus be protected from abduction. any initiative that succeeds in widening the number of countries acceding to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction should be supported. this will increase the protection of children in the event of abduction on the territory of the contracting states and may thus help to speed up the return of the child to his or her natural environment. it is therefore necessary to seek the most effective ways of addressing international child abduction in order to protect children and strengthen their rights.
in writing it is essential that the provisions of this convention on preventing and preventing international child abduction apply also to other countries which have not yet committed themselves to it or have only acceded to it. that's why i voted yes. it should be stressed that even in these very complex family law situations, often with a strong geopolitical context, where national courts tend to make decisions in an unbiased manner, it is always necessary to take account of the rights, welfare and dignity of children at all costs. the child may not be abused in any way and may not be subjected to emotional, psychological or physical suffering. and not even in a situation where an adult is trying to claim a so-called 'right to a child'. the child is not a commodity to be used as a commodity or a tool for the exploitation of others, as is often the case in these cases. the best interests of the child must always and everywhere come first.
in writing the subject of international child abduction largely concerns spouses or couples in which individuals from different countries around the world decide to take advantage of the situation by illegally adopting a child after a divorce or separation. such situations are helped by the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. children often become a means of settling scores between spouses or former partners of different nationalities. the courts of individual countries, often outside the european union, often subsequently, due to certain national tendencies, grant custody to a parent who is a citizen of the country to which the court belongs. the convention deals with such situations in such a way that the court of the state of the child's habitual residence decides on the child's allocation, irrespective of where one of the parents has been taken. the eu now has exclusive external competence in this area, as confirmed by the court of justice. this means that member states no longer act on their own discretion. it is therefore necessary to adopt a council decision requiring the member states to accept, each on its own territory, the accession of the russian federation to the convention and, consequently, the effective entry into force of the convention between the european union and that state. the adoption of this convention will ensure increased protection for children who are in any way connected with the russian community.
in writing i welcome the accession of the russian federation to the hague convention. many citizens of russian origin also live in the eu. children who are connected in some way to the russian community will be protected from abduction. any initiative that succeeds in widening the number of countries acceding to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction should be supported. this will increase the protection of children in the event of abduction on the territory of the contracting states and may thus help to speed up the return of the child to his or her natural environment. it is therefore necessary to seek the most effective ways of addressing international child abduction in order to protect children and strengthen their rights.
written i consider the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction, which has been ratified by all eu member states, to be a particularly important instrument enabling contracting states to cooperate more effectively in dealing with cases of international child abduction. i therefore welcome the accession of the russian federation to this important convention and believe that by working together we will contribute to a stronger protection of children's rights and to their legal certainty in an international context.
in writing it is essential that the provisions of this convention on preventing and preventing international child abduction apply also to other countries which have not yet committed themselves to it or have only acceded to it. that's why i voted yes. it should be stressed that even in these very complex family law situations, often with a strong geopolitical context, where national courts tend to make decisions in an unbiased manner, it is always necessary to take account of the rights, welfare and dignity of children at all costs. the child may not be abused in any way and may not be subjected to emotional, psychological or physical suffering. and not even in a situation where an adult is trying to claim a so-called 'right to a child'. the child is not a commodity to be used as a commodity or a tool for the exploitation of others, as is often the case in these cases. the best interests of the child must always and everywhere come first.
in writing i support the proposal as it will increase the protection of children of russian origin against abduction. in particular, given that the russian population is one of the largest groups of immigrants from third countries, the approval of this proposal is important.
in writing the subject of international child abduction largely concerns married couples or couples in which individuals from different countries around the world decide to take advantage of the situation by illegally adopting a child after a divorce or separation. such situations are helped by the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. children often become a means of settling scores between spouses or former partners of different nationalities. the courts of individual countries, often outside the european union, then, often due to certain national tendencies, grant custody to the parent who is a national of the country to which the court belongs. the convention deals with such situations in such a way that the court of the state of the child's habitual residence decides on the child's allocation, irrespective of where one of the parents has been taken. the eu now has exclusive external competence in this area, as confirmed by the court of justice. this means that member states no longer act on their own discretion. it is therefore necessary to adopt a council decision requiring the member states to accept, on their own territory, the accession of albania to the convention and, consequently, the effective entry into force of the convention between the european union and that state. the adoption of the convention in question will ensure increased protection for children who are in any way connected with the albanian community.
in writing any initiative that succeeds in widening the number of countries acceding to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction should be supported. this will increase the protection of children in the event of abduction on the territory of the contracting states and may thus help to speed up the return of the child to his or her natural environment. it is therefore necessary to seek the most effective ways of addressing international child abduction in order to protect children and strengthen their rights. i welcome the accession of albania to the hague convention. there are also many citizens of albanian origin living in the eu. children who are in any way connected to the albanian community will thus be protected from abduction.
written i consider the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction, which has been ratified by all eu member states, to be a particularly important instrument enabling contracting states to cooperate more effectively in dealing with cases of international child abduction. i therefore welcome the accession of albania and believe that accession to the convention will contribute to a stronger protection of children's rights and to their legal certainty in an international context.
in writing it is essential that the provisions of this convention on preventing and preventing international child abduction apply also to other countries which have not yet committed themselves to it or have only acceded to it. that's why i voted yes. it should be stressed that even in these very complex family law situations, often with a strong geo-political context, where national courts tend to make decisions in an unbiased manner, it is always necessary to take account of the rights, welfare and dignity of children at all costs. the child may not be abused in any way and may not be subjected to emotional, psychological or physical suffering. and not even in a situation where an adult is trying to claim a so-called 'right to a child'. the child is not a commodity to be used as a commodity or a tool for the exploitation of others, as is often the case in these cases. the best interests of the child must always and everywhere come first.
in writing the subject of international child abduction largely concerns spouses or couples in which individuals from different countries around the world decide to take advantage of the situation by illegally adopting a child after a divorce or separation. such situations are helped by the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. children often become a means of settling scores between spouses or former partners of different nationalities. the courts of individual countries, often outside the european union, often subsequently, due to certain national tendencies, grant custody to a parent who is a citizen of the country to which the court belongs. the convention deals with such situations in such a way that the court of the state of the child's habitual residence decides on the child's allocation, irrespective of where one of the parents has been taken. the eu now has exclusive external competence in this area, as confirmed by the court of justice. this means that member states no longer act on their own discretion. it is therefore necessary to adopt a council decision requiring each member state to accept, on its own territory, the accession of singapore to the convention and, consequently, the effective entry into force of the convention between the european union and that state. adoption of the convention will ensure enhanced protection for children who are in any way connected to the singaporean community.
in writing i welcome the accession of singapore to the hague convention. children who are somehow connected to the singaporean community will thus be protected from abduction. any initiative that succeeds in widening the number of countries acceding to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction should be supported. this will increase the protection of children in the event of abduction on the territory of the contracting states and may thus help to speed up the return of the child to his or her natural environment. it is therefore necessary to seek the most effective ways of addressing international child abduction in order to protect children and strengthen their rights.
in writing the subject of international child abduction largely concerns spouses or couples in which individuals from different countries around the world decide to take advantage of the situation by illegally adopting a child after a divorce or separation. such situations are helped by the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. children often become a means of settling scores between spouses or former partners of different nationalities. the courts of individual countries, often outside the european union, often subsequently, due to certain national tendencies, grant custody to a parent who is a citizen of the country to which the court belongs. the convention deals with such situations in such a way that the court of the state of the child's habitual residence decides on the child's allocation, irrespective of where one of the parents has been taken. the eu now has exclusive external competence in this area, as confirmed by the court of justice. this means that member states no longer act on their own discretion. it is therefore necessary to adopt a council decision requiring the member states to accept, on their own territory, the accession of morocco to the convention and, consequently, the effective entry into force of the convention between the european union and that state. the adoption of the convention will ensure increased protection for children who are in any way connected with the moroccan community.
in writing i welcome the accession of morocco to the hague convention. children who are connected in some way to the moroccan community will thus be protected from abduction. any initiative that succeeds in widening the number of countries acceding to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction should be supported. this will increase the protection of children in the event of abduction on the territory of the contracting states and may thus help to speed up the return of the child to his or her natural environment. it is therefore necessary to seek the most effective ways of addressing international child abduction in order to protect children and strengthen their rights.
written i consider the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction, which has been ratified by all eu member states, to be a particularly important instrument enabling contracting states to cooperate more effectively in dealing with cases of international child abduction. i therefore welcome the accession of morocco to this important convention, especially as a significant number of citizens of moroccan origin live in the eu. i believe that by working together we will contribute to a stronger protection of children's rights and to their legal certainty in an international context.
in writing it is essential that the provisions of this convention on preventing and preventing international child abduction apply also to other countries which have not yet committed themselves to it or have only acceded to it. that's why i voted yes. it should be stressed that even in these very complex family law situations, often with a strong geopolitical context, where national courts tend to make decisions in an unbiased manner, it is always necessary to take account of the rights, welfare and dignity of children at all costs. the child may not be abused in any way and may not be subjected to emotional, psychological or physical suffering. and not even in a situation where an adult is trying to claim a so-called 'right to a child'. the child is not a commodity to be used as a commodity or a tool for the exploitation of others, as is often the case in these cases. the best interests of the child must always and everywhere come first.
in writing the subject of international child abduction largely concerns spouses or couples in which individuals from different countries around the world decide to take advantage of the situation by illegally adopting a child after a divorce or separation. such situations are helped by the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. children often become a means of settling scores between spouses or former partners of different nationalities. the courts of individual countries, often outside the european union, often subsequently, due to certain national tendencies, grant custody to a parent who is a citizen of the country to which the court belongs. the convention deals with such situations in such a way that the court of the state of the child's habitual residence decides on the child's allocation, irrespective of where one of the parents has been taken. the eu now has exclusive external competence in this area, as confirmed by the court of justice. this means that member states no longer act on their own discretion. it is therefore necessary to adopt a council decision requiring the member states to accept, on their own territory, the accession of armenia to the convention and, consequently, the effective entry into force of the convention between the european union and that state. the adoption of the convention will ensure increased protection for children who are in any way connected with the armenian community.
in writing any initiative that succeeds in widening the number of countries acceding to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction should be supported. this will increase the protection of children in the event of abduction on the territory of the contracting states and may thus help to speed up the return of the child to his or her natural environment. it is therefore necessary to seek the most effective ways of addressing international child abduction in order to protect children and strengthen their rights. i welcome the accession of armenia to the hague convention. there are also many citizens of armenian origin living in the eu. children who are connected in some way to the armenian community will be protected from abduction.
in writing it is essential that the provisions of this convention on preventing and preventing international child abduction apply also to other countries which have not yet committed themselves to it or have only acceded to it. that's why i voted yes. it should be stressed that even in these very complex family law situations, often with a strong geopolitical context, where national courts tend to make decisions in an unbiased manner, it is always necessary to take account of the rights, welfare and dignity of children at all costs. the child may not be abused in any way and may not be subjected to emotional, psychological or physical suffering. and not even in a situation where an adult is trying to claim a so-called 'right to a child'. the child is not a commodity to be used as a commodity or a tool for the exploitation of others, as is often the case in these cases. the best interests of the child must always and everywhere come first.
in writing at the beginning of each parliamentary term, it is essential that a report on the verification of credentials for members of the european parliament, as notified by the competent national authorities after the elections, is completed. unfortunately, however, certain formalities still apply in some member states and make it extremely difficult for candidates to take part in elections. registration formalities should be simplified and made more effective so that all citizens have an equal chance to stand and to vote in elections.
in writing i support the proposal because it will lead to clearer rules and, inter alia, to the elimination of some cases of discrimination against voters and candidates for elections to the european parliament who are in a country other than their own.
the european union must find a way to punish those drivers who take vehicles beyond the borders of their home country, thus contributing to reducing road fatalities. we must send a clear signal to the citizens of the european union that everyone will be treated equally, regardless of where their vehicle is registered. the amendment of the legal basis of the directive makes it possible to extend the application of the new rules to ireland, denmark and the united kingdom, which were not covered by the original directive.
in writing the purpose of the directive is to improve road safety. the scope of the directive had to be amended to take road safety as its legal basis, but also to extend it to apply to all member states to which it had not previously applied. studies have shown, for example, that most of the persons concerned who exceeded the speed limit were foreigners. a typical example is austria. the competent authorities did not know the residence of the vehicle owner and the recovery of fines, in particular from automatic radars, was problematic. this relative impunity has had a negative impact on the growth of offences and accidents. road traffic rules needed to be harmonized. these rules have already had the effect of reducing accidents by 40%. therefore, it was necessary to remove all irregularities and extend it to the whole eu territory without exception.
in writing i consider the current situation, where, except for direct police control, drivers cannot be punished for road traffic offences committed in another eu country, to be unfair and therefore supported the proposal. i am convinced that drivers should always be punished equally for the same traffic offences, regardless of the country in which their motor vehicle is registered in the european union.
in writing today, with the majority of meps, i voted in favour of a report which aims to make it impossible for drivers who break road rules outside their home eu country to escape fines. i welcome the commission's swift response to the court of justice's judgment that the original 2011 directive had an incorrect legal basis. the long-standing legal vacuum in this area would be unnecessary given the good wording of the original text. the directive has changed in only two ways. in addition to the legal basis mentioned above (changing from police cooperation to transport safety), its territorial scope has been extended to denmark, the united kingdom and ireland, which had previously enjoyed an exemption.
in writing the objective of this agreement in the sustainable fisheries sector is to create a new framework for cooperation between the republic of senegal and the european union, as the number of european union vessels authorised to fish for tuna in senegalese waters has decreased significantly from 18 to 2 vessels as a result of the non-renewal of the protocols. the new agreement and the protocol in question are in the interest of both parties involved. the satellite vessel monitoring system will help law enforcement agencies there to monitor unregulated and illegal fishing.
in writing it is unacceptable that the member states of the european union cooperate and actively engage in the illegal activities of the us central intelligence agency on their territory and that by doing so they de facto support the torture practices used in these facilities. the european parliament's responsible committees must be given the space to pursue the investigation of the suspicions in question. the european union cannot allow fundamental human rights to be violated on its territory and ensure that victims are afforded all legal remedies.
in writing - written explanation of vote pursuant to rule 183 (1) of the rules of procedure vladimir manka 11 february 2015 report to the us senate on the use of torture by the cia international conventions do not allow for any form of torture of prisoners. solving conflicts and terrorism with another form of violence cannot contribute to the real solution of the problems that are shaking the world today. such practices set the whole world back centuries. countries that are emerging as leaders in human rights cannot afford to indulge in the cruel torture and degradation of human dignity in secret prisons and facilities around the world. we cannot agree to such practices.
in writing. there are no exceptions to the prohibition of torture, and no circumstances can justify the use of torture. not even if we're doing it for domestic security reasons. human dignity and life are universal human values that must be respected unconditionally in all parts of the world. the united states of america, as the guardian of democracy, cannot afford to use such a terrible tool. especially in these times when terrorists around the world are committing disgusting/horrible/horrible acts against innocent people. while protecting the safety of our fellow citizens is of the utmost importance, we must do so by means that do not degrade us to the level of terrorists. we must find the means to achieve the greatest possible security in our countries, while respecting universal human values and rights in our dealings with our own people and with the people of other countries. i therefore fully support the ep's resolution.
in writing. — the practices of the cia used on detainees during their interrogations, uncovered by the report of the us senate intelligence committee, are deeply disturbing. secret prisons in poland and afghanistan also pose questions about how and where the war on terror was waged. the introduction of so-called ‘enhanced interrogation techniques’ paved the way to the crimes and abuses committed at abu ghraib prison. human dignity should always have the upper hand over the need of military or intelligence agencies. therefore i voted against.
the european union must make the protection of the health and lives of citizens of the member states one of its top priorities, especially after the terrorist attacks in paris. in introducing any new rules, we must not forget the fundamental pillars of the european union, which undoubtedly include fundamental human rights and freedoms. the european union will thus not seem to avoid changes and reforms in the schengen system or the completion of the passenger name record directive. however, for measures to work at european level, it is also necessary for member states themselves to invest more in programmes that address the acute problem of radicalisation of the population. member states and their competent national authorities have provided europol and eurojust with only 50% of the information on terrorism and organised crime on their territory, which needs to be improved in the future if europe is to combat the threat of terrorism effectively.
in writing the events of the past few weeks have confirmed that the fight against terrorism is not only a matter for the european union but also for each individual member state and for every democratic country in the world. therefore, it is necessary to adopt a strengthening of the powers of national surveillance of residents as well as of persons heading to countries of conflict. citizens fighting abroad in the ranks of terrorist organizations pose a potential danger to any state. to ensure this, all legitimate instruments available should be used to avoid risks and harm to the lives and health of the population. however, all measures must be implemented in such a way that we prevent terrorism from entering eu countries and prevent terrorist acts from occurring within countries, while avoiding violations of human rights and freedoms.
in writing one of the main reasons for the establishment of the internet governance forum was to provide a basis for forward-looking discussion on a wide range of issues relating to the internet and its governance and, in certain cases, to provide the international community with appropriate recommendations. although the internet governance forum does not adopt any formal conclusions, it is important that the european union supports its functioning and thus helps to increase the impact of policy discussions, which often offer a positive and concrete context for shaping the future of internet use. the european parliament should continue to participate in future meetings of the internet governance forum through a delegation, thereby contributing to the development of a comprehensive and coherent approach of the european union together with the member states and the european commission. the european union should learn from the lessons that have resulted from the fruitful exchanges of views in the context of the internet governance forum, in particular in the areas of regulatory aspects of electronic communications, data security and privacy protection.
the internet is a global tool and the digital agenda has become part of life, politics and business. it is important to create a space for discussion on the various aspects of the digital economy such as data protection, neutrality, electronic signature or online registration of smes and other smes.
the internet governance forum (igf) provides a space for the exchange of information, the search for new solutions and the formulation of visions for the future of the internet. by voting in favour of the motion for a resolution, i supported the re-establishment of the forum and the maintenance of its multi-stakeholder governance, including the sending of a european parliament delegation to each meeting. i hope that the work of the forum will help to find answers to the ever-new questions that the information society raises.
in writing. - parliament drew conclusions from the scandal of beef and veal mixed with horse meat and asked the commission to submit a legislative proposal to clearly specify the indication of the origin of meat on all products. the ep also called for the commission to present a new version of the rules, which would make it compulsory to indicate the place of birth, rearing and slaughter, and remove the exceptions for offal and minced meat. we have adopted a resolution as a result of the work. the new legislation will become mandatory from april 2015. several expressed concern that mandatory labelling could not only lead to price increases for food business operators, but also lead to higher consumer prices. i think that none of these aspects can be ignored, but we cannot expose consumers to health or food safety risks. the balance between the two sides is the most important for the union market. the european parliament argues that the new rules have the advantage of allowing the origin of meat ingredients to be indicated, which would help to better monitor the ingredients and also make it easier for producers to choose between suppliers and products. i voted in favour of the rapporteur's proposals.
european consumers have the right to be protected to the greatest possible extent and to be adequately informed about the origin of meat in all processed foods. the european commission should submit proposals as soon as possible to introduce mandatory indication of the country of production, slaughter and processing for all meat in already processed food and not just for fresh meat. as many as 90% of consumers would clearly welcome the extension of the mandatory origin labelling rules in question to meat contained in ready-to-eat foods such as baguettes, sandwiches or various types of semi-finished products. the measure in question would clearly help people to better orient themselves when buying and selecting such products. if something is labeled as a slovak product, it should mean that the meat in it also comes from slovakia. with today's rules, it may not be taken for granted. transparent labelling should lead to a deepening of consumer confidence, which has unfortunately been marred by several scandals in the past, and should contribute to improving the quality of food, to a certain extent also its safety and, above all, consumer information.
in writing maximising consumer awareness of the composition of food and food products is also a way to improve the health of the population. the consumer has the right to decide what food to buy, not only in terms of price, but also in terms of its composition, origin and health. we live in a time when allergies of various kinds are becoming a part of our lives. accurate labelling of food is one way to improve the health of the population. recently, we have witnessed unfair manipulation of the provenance of meat in processed foods. it is therefore essential that the commission submits legislative proposals urgently to address the origin identification of individual ingredients in processed foods in order to prevent fraud in the nutrition of the population and to strengthen consumer protection.
in writing mandatory country of origin labelling for meat used in processed foods is, in my view, the only rational way to ensure greater transparency throughout the food chain and to improve the information of european consumers, whose confidence has been shaken by the horse and other meat scandals of recent years. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution calling on the european commission to submit an appropriate legislative proposal introducing mandatory country of origin labelling for meat in the eu, taking into account sanitary safety, product quality, but also the needs of small and medium-sized enterprises in the regions.
in writing. — i think it is important for each consumer to know the composition and origin of the food they consume. this will contribute to greater public awareness and also to better decision-making for better and healthier food.
in writing it is important to guarantee the safety and improved quality of food for our consumers. this is ensured by the harmonisation of the food and hygiene legislation of the member states. there is therefore no link between the introduction of the indication of the country of origin of processed meat and the subsequent improvement of its quality. the opinion of consumers should also be taken into account, where up to 80% expressed that they were not interested in labelling if it increased the price. mandatory labelling of processed meat will not only affect our consumers, who will be charged higher prices for the products they buy, but also small and medium-sized enterprises, which represent up to 90% of meat processors in the eu, which will be charged up to 30% more in administrative costs. in this way, we will not only lower the standard of living of our citizens, but also lower the level of employment and threaten the existence of smes in the eu and in the slovak republic. mandatory labelling would limit the variability of goods offered, especially for smes, where up to 90% of goods are sold unpackaged. the introduction of simple and flexible labelling rules and voluntary labelling in meat products, which is also called for by the meat processing associations concerned, can be a starting point. at the same time, the introduction of mandatory labelling could lead to an increase in the illegal sale of products and would not guarantee the 100% accuracy of the data provided, given that back-checking is burdensome, that not only increase the costs of producers, but also exceed the capabilities of the current level of control bodies.
in writing despite the improvement of food control systems, the tightening of measures and the increase in sanctions, food scandals are on the increase. on the one hand, consumers today have access to a wide variety of products, but on the other hand, they are faced with food that is of poor quality and may even pose a serious threat to their health. in order to better orient buyers on the market, it is important that the description of the products includes not only the content but also the origin of the food. according to consumer surveys from 2013, more than 90% of respondents indicated that the origin of meat used in processed foods should be indicated on the packaging in order to be able to make a decision also on the basis of this information. therefore, in the interest of consumer protection, i agree that in the foreseeable future, meat used as an ingredient in processed foods such as lasagne, ravioli, etc. will be subject to rules of origin identical to those applicable to fresh beef. although i am not in favour of excessive regulation, i support this proposal because i believe that consumers have a right to access to clear labelling of all food ingredients.
the joint parliamentary assembly has managed to establish a respected position in the framework of cooperation between the european union and the acp countries. it shall actively promote development objectives and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. however, it is very important that the jpa also keeps a close eye on developments in the countries concerned and must remain active in order to ensure that the voice of the jpa is heard beyond 2020, when the cotonou agreement expires.
in writing i supported the charles goerens report, as it is the intensive cooperation between acp and eu representatives that can help these countries. however, there is one point on which i cannot agree. the report criticises meps for not participating in the joint parliamentary assembly (jpa) and includes a provision stating that the absence of assistants from the jpa plenary sessions has a significant impact on parliamentary activities. i am convinced that such a statement has no place in such an important report, which expresses deep concern at the deterioration of the humanitarian situation in the acp regions and is intended to send a signal of full support to these states.
commissioner, thank you very much for your efforts to address the humanitarian crisis in iraq and syria, especially in the context of the horrendous activities of the islamic state. we all know the atrocities they commit, there's no need to say more about it now. i want to emphasize that the humanitarian situation cannot be separated from the security situation, and the security situation cannot be viewed outside of the political context. after all, all humanitarian aid must ultimately be linked and directed towards a secure political environment. as you may know, some groups in this area, namely the chalcedonian, syrian and assyrian populations, the turkmen and the yezidis, signed a joint declaration last october in the ep in brussels on local autonomy and self-government under the kurdish regional government in iraq. i had the opportunity to chair this meeting and it was a really precious atmosphere and i think it's very important to take these democratic initiatives seriously because they know best what the people in their region really need. i appreciate all the effort you've put into this partnership so far. in conclusion, commissioner, i respectfully ask you to continue to seek out these local authorities of the minorities concerned and to consider them as official partners in your efforts to resolve this humanitarian crisis.
it's a sad reality that syria and iraq have become synonymous with humanitarian crises in recent times. the syrian civil war has been going on for four years. a humanitarian crisis for about the same amount of time. we could use some frightening statistics to illustrate this. the speakers have mentioned them, so i won't repeat them. the assad regime's response to these numbers is to deny any responsibility. as if that wasn't enough, syria and iraq are in another conflict. it's against the extremist groups of the islamic state. isis is a dramatic problem for syria, for iraq, for the whole region, but also for europe. he uses terrorist tactics, he subverts states, he drives people from their homes. he's a direct threat to our civilization. we see it at home, in the acceding countries, in our immediate neighbors. also alarming is the fact that many of the fighters for the islamic state are foreigners and from the so-called western world. all the member states of the european union must respond responsibly to this reality. we have a new strategy that will mobilize one billion euros for syria and iraq over the next two years. there are already generations of people in syria and iraq whose lives have been completely destroyed. we also need to think about what will be waiting for us after the war in syria is over, how we will contribute to the reconstruction of a country that has been absolutely devastated, how we will restore human dignity to its people. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer to the question asked by raising the blue card i have already said in my speech that the member states of the union can and should take a responsible attitude to this situation. bosnia and herzegovina is one of the countries aspiring to future membership of the european union and, like other countries, is affected by this. these potential fighters may be fighting for the islamic state in the future, and therefore the proposal by my honourable colleague that the commission should deal with this situation is, i think, a good one, realistic and i support it.
i also have a few words to say about margo's speeches about control and surveillance here. the natural space for the development of democracy and human rights is the member states themselves. each of them had to go through a difficult process and meet the so-called copenhagen criteria. i'm convinced that no one wants to question their own values. if we have any problems or shortcomings in the eu, let us try to have an open discussion about them. i am concerned that strict control mechanisms and instructions will be applied to the member states. we know from our history that where the culture of debate ends, the dictatorship of command begins. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. i expect my colleagues here in the ep to be tolerant and respectful of freedom of expression. so i ask: is anyone who has expressed a positive attitude toward the natural family a threat to democracy? member states have sufficient mechanisms to ensure democracy and the protection of human rights. the european commission should respect them. citizens and the state itself have a right to make the right choices and do not need constant control over themselves. the european parliament must respect the sovereignty of the member states, not control them. and above all, it should lead a respectful dialogue instead of repression. i therefore ask that this approach be maintained in this document and that proposals to sanction or address member states in the name of vague proposals such as 'little democratic process' and the like be dropped. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer to the question asked by raising the blue card of course, no minority can be discriminated against, and it is also important to be clear about who the minorities are. so, everyone has the basic human rights defined in 1948, i don't know about any others. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer to the question asked by raising the blue card madam colleague, it's okay how many people came to the polls. the huge anti-campaign that has been waged has been very unfair and untrue, so i am particularly opposed to any pressure being exerted on a sovereign member state, because there is an agreement that in matters of ethics and conscience, in internal matters concerning the family, for example, each state decides as it wishes. secondly, our referendum is an expression of the opinion of our citizens. i don't see what you don't like about it.
i have been the shadow rapporteur on this plenary on several occasions, but also the rapporteur on the report on fundamental rights. and it is from this position that i can judge how fundamental rights are being respected in the european union, and i have to say that in some areas it is very weak indeed. if the eu wants to be the one to report to third countries on their human rights violations, and if we want to be the one to prosecute other countries for not respecting fundamental rights, then we must, mr vice-president of the commission, find a system to ensure that rights are respected in the member states of the european union. there was a referendum in slovakia mentioned several times. i want to say that i am proud of the citizens of the slovak republic, that only 20% of them came to speak out against the minority and we must in the future, commissioner, look for tools to prevent the hate speech and the hate campaign that was used in this referendum campaign in slovakia from spreading to other countries.
in writing. i consider it very important that the subject of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights is also addressed in the parliament's plenary session. i would like to draw attention to two problems that exist in this debate: the first problem is the lack of clarity on the internal rules. i would ask vice-president timmermans to consider this question with me. as long as there are no objective criteria or common solutions, there is a possibility of applying double standards both within and outside the eu. the double standard is perceptible in the eu's approaches to democracy, the rule of law and the protection of fundamental rights. the commission is too lenient with some member states and too hasty in judging others on certain issues. this is not good, it undermines the credibility of the european union. the other essential element is that there are some member states which do not fulfil the conditions they undertook upon entry. this may be because there is no consistent follow-up of the obligations undertaken upon entry into the eu. we need to control this process more vigorously. the new commission is still at the beginning of its mandate, so we are in good time to clarify and build on the eu guarantees to protect the aforementioned criteria and fundamental rights.
the subject of european asylum policy is a very sensitive one, also in the context of the previous topic, mr vice-president, because it is immigration policy and immigrants that are the charges for politicians or those who would like to get into the various parliaments and exploit the position of these people, as well as perhaps our imperfect immigration policy. we therefore need a new common asylum system. it is not possible, after all, that asylum seekers, when they meet the same conditions, have such very different chances of being granted asylum in different member states. we must not forget that we must protect our borders and actively combat illegal activity, which is closely linked to migration. frontex has set itself very ambitious objectives in addressing the problems of the mediterranean and ensuring external border control. i believe that if we want these objectives to be achieved, we must also increase the current budget for frontex to strengthen its activities. the citizens of the member states must feel safe and have confidence that our common borders are well secured and that we will not allow criminals and traffickers to cross our borders with impunity.
the tragic news of the 400 new victims in the mediterranean in recent days is saddening. we have made a number of verbal commitments to strengthen frontex, to prevent it from becoming a gateway for foreign jihadist fighters and to prevent the mediterranean from becoming a graveyard. overburdened frontex has neither the capacity nor the financial means to carry out the new tasks properly and therefore needs your support. unfortunately, the stagnation so far has given rise to misconceptions and harmful ideas, such as the renewal of border controls within the schengen area in order to screen out terrorists at the borders. i therefore strongly support the idea that instead of plugging holes, as the commissioner has indicated, we should strive to create a complex structure. this includes cooperation between the military, criminal, intelligence and immigration agencies of the member countries. and i've said many times that we should also start targeted information immediately in the source countries of refugees and immigrants.
thank you very much. the pharmaceutical industry plays a very important role in protecting the health of the european population. in the last year alone, the average amount spent on medicines per european inhabitant was €430. we must therefore ensure that patients have effective and, last but not least, reliable medicines on the market. pharmaceutical manufacturers should be encouraged to make their medicines available in increased quantities at moderate prices. this will make it easier for citizens to access it and will result in significant savings for health budgets. stronger action is also needed to curb counterfeiting. drug innovation has made it possible for patients to benefit from treatments that were unimaginable just a few decades ago. however, many diseases still lack adequate treatments, so a constant effort is needed to develop new drugs. it is therefore essential to create a business environment that stimulates research and supports the competitiveness of the sector. we cannot allow research and development to leave the european union. thank you, thank you.
as a doctor, i am very sensitive to situations where the market for medical services, medicines, equipment and materials fails to find a balance. i understand that in the case of drugs, it's important to recoup the investment in research, clinical trials, and other costs. i also understand why it's important for pharmaceutical companies to make a profit. but more and more, we are seeing cases of drug patents being misused to maximize profits for as long as possible. this parliament has always sought to achieve harmonization in the field of health, balancing the needs of the pharmaceutical industry with those of human health. the spanish case, and the whole debate today, shows that such a balance does not yet exist. i therefore join the call for the commission to examine the causes of these price excesses and propose a remedy. i think it's important that we open up a discussion about the models used to price medicines. the need to review these models is also closely linked to the adverse demographic situation and related pressures on the sustainability of health financing in europe. it's going to be a long and difficult discussion, but we can't put it off any longer.
with the advent of these new technologies, we have a generation of young people and children growing up who are much better at handling the new technologies than their parents and educators. this makes it much more difficult for parents, who have the primary responsibility for raising their children, to guard them against inappropriate and harmful content on the internet. children are naturally more trusting, often unaware of the dangers of visiting such inappropriate sites or associating with inappropriate people. i think it's our responsibility to establish and enforce legal action against the producers of such perverted things. as a member of the slovak national council, i openly pointed out the problem of the depiction of inappropriate, often pornographic content in the daily press, and my campaign naked for sale aimed to legislate the protection of children from inappropriate content. to date, nearly 70,000 signatures have been collected in support of this idea, and i believe that this threat to the moral education of young people begins with such surveillance, including in the daily press and access to open pornography.
i would like to thank ms monika hohlmeier for pointing out the need to monitor the implementation and possibly update the directive on combating the sexual abuse and exploitation of children and child pornography. i also support the call for the commission to prepare an awareness campaign to help children understand the risks of the internet and to support parents' efforts to protect their children online. in slovakia, a similar campaign i initiated called 'do you know what your child is doing now?' provided parents with basic information about the risks of alcohol and drugs, sexual abuse and human trafficking. this is the area where the commission could now follow up. the fight against child abuse on the internet must be a priority for the european union to find the means to finance such important projects.
in writing following a number of investigations initiated by the european commission which revealed agreements on non-standard tax treatment for multinational companies in luxembourg, ireland, belgium and the netherlands, there has been a need to introduce more transparency into tax decisions that may have an impact on other member states or the union as a whole. i therefore voted in favour of the establishment of a special committee of the european parliament to monitor tax rulings and other measures of a similar nature adopted by the member states and the overall transparency of tax rulings. on the basis of the facts examined, the committee shall make appropriate recommendations for the future.
in writing i agree to the establishment of this committee as it can bring more information about the so-called lux leaks case of european commission president jean-claude juncker. similarly, the committee can contribute to the detection of similar practices much earlier in the future. eu countries should not set special tax rates for selected businesses, but all businesses should have the same, transparent conditions that apply to all.
in writing the human rights situation in syria and iraq has deteriorated significantly in recent months and is in breach of international humanitarian law. the people of iraq and syria are exposed to the ongoing war conflict on a daily basis, as well as the threat from isil. it is therefore essential that a comprehensive regional strategy for the middle east is adopted as a matter of urgency. neighbouring countries must stop trading oil, which brings significant financial revenues to isil. a large number of nationals of member states have joined isil fighters and pose a significant danger to the european union. it is therefore necessary that jihadists be subject to greater control of their movements by european security services and agencies. the international community must do more to alleviate the suffering of millions of syrians and iraqis who lack basic food and medicine and whose human rights are being trampled.
in writing the ongoing humanitarian crisis in syria has displaced over 7.6 million people, with over 12.2 million syrians in need of immediate assistance. there are more than 5.2 million of them in iraq, with 2.1 million iraqis displaced from their homes. the international community must therefore take action and, in particular, step up immediate humanitarian aid and assistance to the millions of people affected by the current difficult winter. at the same time, however, the necessary steps must be taken to defeat the so-called islamic state, which has committed deliberate and systematic human rights violations, including murder and other forms of brutal violence against people on the basis of their religious or ethnic affiliation.
in writing. — the atrocities of is are well known and need to be stopped. as there are many, many refugees who are in great need, i welcomed this resolution which calls for an end to the violence, restoration of peace and help for the victims.
a un report last week revealed the unprecedented cruelty of islamic radicals from isis, who in their fight do not hesitate to use mentally disabled children as suicide bombers or human shields. the number of kidnapped children, especially from christian groups but also from shi'ite and sunni groups, who are tortured, sold into slavery, sexually abused or even killed, is also increasing dramatically. i am pleased that, thanks to my initiative, the resolution adopted today contains a clear condemnation of these barbaric practices. it is important that all developed countries do more to stop these barbaric radicals from doing so as soon as possible and thus stop the huge humanitarian crisis in the region.
commissioner, i would like to congratulate you on the excellent energy union strategy that we really need very urgently in the european union. the 28 different national economies show how something does not work when it does, or when individual member states try to do everything on the basis of their own country, and your project, which you have presented and which, as i have noticed from the debate, has been a great success throughout the european parliament, is a project that is also moving the european union forward in the field of energy. it is a great pity that the crisis in ukraine has shown us how huge a problem energy security can be for us at a time when the russian federation decides to block energy supplies to europe, to individual member states. for us in slovakia, as well as in the surrounding countries, it is a double problem. i would therefore like to congratulate you once again and i trust that the commission, through you, will put pressure on the member states to implement this very good plan as quickly as possible. thank you. thank you.
in writing in the winter of 2009, we were hit by gas supply disruptions from russia. since then, we have done a lot to strengthen the eu's energy security. we have sufficient oil and petroleum products in the storage tanks . this also has a positive impact on the mitigation of price fluctuations . in the electricity sector, we need to ensure continuity of supply and diversification of technologies, especially in the field of renewable energy sources, because this is where the improvement of security of supply will come from. the transition from fossil to renewable energy sources, as well as the change in the energy mix, the nominal growth of wind and solar energy, together with the construction of the internal electricity market, require significant investments in the rebuilding of the interconnection system in europe. reducing energy demand is one of the most effective tools for saving and reducing external energy dependence. buildings account for 40% of the eu 's energy consumption (and 1/3 of natural gas) building retrofits and insulation can reduce this consumption by 50 to 75% .with renewables, the cost of such production will fall we need to build smart grids and solve energy storage . the cost of energy from conventional fossil fuels will rise as extraction becomes more difficult and expensive the eu will fund energy research and innovation, another source of future savings. i 'm not .
in writing. slovakia fully supports the efforts of the juncker commission and its slovak vice-president maroš šefčovič on the issue of the european union's energy self-sufficiency and resource diversity. the eu and the sr share common objectives, namely better prices for the customer, a reduction in energy imports from russia, and thus a better competitiveness of europe.
in writing the energy union strategy, presented by slovak european commissioner maroš šefčovič, focuses on five interrelated points: security of energy supply, the internal energy market, consumption efficiency, carbon reduction, and research and development. it is expected to implement up to 40 specific activities and initiatives at pan-european level between 2015 and 2017. the draft strategy will make energy security one of the union's main priorities. the commission wants to focus on diversifying sources, suppliers and supply routes. it is preparing a gas diversification package which will include support for increased gas imports via the southern route, from the mediterranean and algeria. the commission should also submit a notice on the promotion of domestic sources, including shale gas. the issue of diversification of oil and gas supplies is of particular importance for slovakia. the draft strategy contains a number of feasible measures, for example in the transport sector. but i was a little surprised by the idea that europe should become a leader in electromobility. this sounds a bit like music of the future, because a significant expansion of individual electric transport in particular would require large investments in urban infrastructure. but i am keeping my fingers crossed for our european commissioner, mr šefčovič, to make the most of his ambitious energy union plan.
europe is in a difficult situation, facing threats both from outside and from within. the recent tragic events in france, denmark, but also the threat here in belgium, lead us to better define our goals and the way to achieve them in the fight against terrorism. but i see no reason to put undue pressure on parliament to accept the pnr in an expedited procedure. on the contrary, the european parliament is here to protect the rights of the citizens of the member states of the european union. if i may, i would like to make a few comments on the situation in greece. ladies and gentlemen, none of us would like to be in the shoes of the greek government and politicians at this moment. the situation is really difficult, but i must call on the greek politicians and the greek government to show the same solidarity that we have shown in slovakia, for example, where more than 60% of the population earns only 500 euros, and we simply supported this solidarity and helped the greek government. now we expect the same solidarity from the current greek government.
in writing. every citizen has the right to live without fear, regardless of his or her views, beliefs, colour or minority. unfortunately, that's not the way it's going to work today. fear has crept into our daily lives, and like a cunning snake, it is coiling up among us. it's time to definitely crush the head of this snake. we must defend our european identity, our democracy, our common values at all costs. i think that dialogue between communities is key in this fight. we need to find common ground with each other, to strengthen understanding and knowledge, tolerance and solidarity. these are the programs we need to focus on right now. it's the only way to integrate. at the same time, we have to take very strong action to prevent money laundering, corruption. these are hotbeds for terrorist financing. so i urge united action, concrete, hard-line action on this issue, and zero tolerance in practice. we need to seal the breaches to protect ourselves. and action must not be delayed, it must be done here and now!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. since mr draghi has left our meeting, i will allow myself to explain why greece has no chance of surviving in the eurozone. in 1970 a german mark cost 9 drachmas. thirty years later, a german mark cost 170 drachmas! this is the development of competitiveness that is reflected here. then, in 2000, it was said: from now on, for all eternity, the german mark will cost 172 drachmas. but competitiveness has continued to increase, more in germany than in greece. without the euro, the deutsche mark would today be worth 250 drachmas, and that is why greece has no chance of surviving in the eurozone. the only thing you can do is buy time. the first five years have cost 240 billion euros.
the european central bank has focused mainly on reducing tensions in financial markets and restoring investor confidence in the single currency. in particular, in a period of economic and financial crisis, it is to be appreciated that the european central bank is prepared to take the necessary steps which are necessary to stabilise the situation and to save the euro. on the other hand, economic activity continues to stagnate, as the euro area recorded negative gdp growth for the second year in a row in 2013 and high unemployment in europe threatens the stability of the european project and increases the concerns of citizens in the member states of the european union. the monetary policy transmission mechanism is unfortunately severely weakened and the contribution of the european central bank to lowering interest rates is minimal, which is a problem because very low interest rates lead to serious disruptions in the business sector in the long term and are detrimental to private savings and pension plans. however, i appreciate that the european central bank has repeatedly confirmed that it is able and competent within its mandate to use unconventional instruments and to change the scope of its intervention in the event of too long a period of low inflation. i am very pleased that this institution is opening up to scrutiny and is setting a positive example for the other institutions by its decision to publish the minutes of its meetings, which will certainly be welcomed by the general public.
urban transport is becoming an increasingly pressing issue to be addressed. cycling is one way of offering europe's citizens an alternative to individual car transport, while also acting as a health prevention. cycling is also naturally more environmentally friendly and more accessible to citizens. many studies have shown that during rush hour, the bicycle is a faster means of transport than the car. the development of public bicycle rental services and their placement at railway or bus stations is important for improving transport mobility in slovakia, but also throughout our union. we also need to complement the cycle network with new routes in areas where the current network is inadequate. i believe that with the support of european resources, we will also succeed in completing the cycle routes and linking them together in a coherent european network. i believe that cycling deserves our attention and support for better transportation of people, as well as for their health.
mr president nine years ago, in 2006, a student in nyitran, slovakia, was assaulted by unknown persons for speaking in her native language, a minority language, on the phone. the then prime minister and minister of the interior accused the girl of making up the story and endangering the good reputation of slovakia. but the police and medical records prove that it did. the girl was still kidnapped and prosecuted. later, in 2012, the slovak government apologized to her six years after the incident, and she withdrew her application to the european court of human rights. however, in 2014, after another change of government, the case against her was renewed and it was announced that she would be brought to trial this year, nine years after the incident. she fled slovakia because of the constant torture and settled in another eu country. i would like to draw attention to this problem and i am convinced, mr president, that the representatives of the european parliament should be present at the trial of the girl in slovakia.
i have to say that the issue of real equality between men and women is very important to me, because there are still too many women who, just because they are women, are discriminated against, underestimated, humiliated or subjected to violence. it is unacceptable to me that in 21st century europe one in three women is a victim of violence; it is unacceptable to me that it is still common practice in job interviews to ask women if, when and how many children they plan to have; it is unacceptable to me that a woman who has spent years on maternity leave, or perhaps a lifetime, caring for her severely disabled child or bereaved relative, is receiving a miserable pension and is facing poverty for much of her life. i believe that all women, whether they become mothers or not, whether they choose to work or to care for their families, deserve a decent living. and we should all strive to create such conditions. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer to the question asked by raising the blue card i believe that raising children is a responsible and difficult task and our society, our countries, should appreciate it more, in that maternity leave or parental allowance should be much higher than they are at present, when they really do not cover the needs of the family at all and the family often finds itself in poverty when the mother stays at home with the children and takes care of them, and therefore i think that the member states - because it is the competence of the member states - should also consider this, to appreciate the work of mothers.
the european union is committed to the values of equality and the dignity of every human being, and this report should be based on these values, but unfortunately this is not the case. the report also discusses the rights of women-mothers and men-fathers. but why is the most basic right of every woman and every man, namely the right to life, neglected? where the report talks about the dignity and rights of the unborn child, that's my question. i would like to stress that on this ground we repeatedly encounter attempts to decide on matters which fall exclusively within the competence of the member states, this parliament has clearly and correctly declared that sexual and reproductive health issues are the competence of the member states. how is it possible, then, that attempts to intervene in them from the standpoint of the european union are reappearing? these efforts are not just in health, but in education and training, and most absurdly, efforts to monitor and correct social networks.
the commission has also received a number of complaints from the member states. other first of all, on the occasion of yesterday's international women's day, i would like to wish all the ladies the freedom to choose to balance their professional and private lives. equal opportunities for women and men are often maliciously confused at street level with the pursuit of equality between women and men. and in this house, very often, the equality of opportunity between men and women is used to score political points, along with other ethical issues. i want to emphasize that today we are not here to discuss abortion or sexual and reproductive rights. these are national competences anyway. but it is time for the european parliament to lead the way in the field of equal opportunities for women and men and to put right the wrong practice. my fellow men! i know you have situations where men are being pushed around and blindly prejudiced. we hear that a man is not fit to be a single parent, that a nurse, a kindergarten teacher, or a babysitter is more likely to be a woman. but what about the things that women have to deal with in a man's world, and the prejudices that are often openly discriminatory, like women being paid less for the same work. but what i think is most important is the prevention of domestic violence. i read today that 30% of all murders of women are committed by husbands or partners. violence against women is not limited to certain social groups. it's right there between the uneducated and the intellectuals, the poor and the well-to-do alike. that is why i support this report along with the adoption of the amendments by the people's party. (the intervener agrees to answer a question for a blue card under article 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
that's a two-card answer. look, i'm a free choice advocate, and i want, as i said, for everyone to be able to live their life in a way that balances their professional and personal lives. but the worst thing we can do, and i've said this before, is to mix ethics and politics at a time when we can make very important progress in balancing women's rights, and if we break this up into political battles, we'll never get ahead. thank you very much.
i'm the last speaker in this debate, and i have so much i want to say, but i'm going to limit myself to a few of the important things. first of all, i am in my third term in this parliament and i have had some really great debates here and the report presented by marc tarabella is, in my view, exactly what marc tarabella is. she's good, she's balanced, she's progressive and she's got a big heart and that's the kind of message we women need. we do not need it for those of us in the european parliament, or even for those of us in politics. we need it for women who wake up every morning and have to think about how to make money so they can raise their children. we need it for women, who are still paid less than men in our democratic countries. we need it for our grandmothers, who have lower pensions than our grandfathers. we need it so that women can do quality work. that is the report that marc tarabella has presented, and that is why i respect him very much and am glad that he is my colleague.
in writing. the european union has perhaps the last chance to prove to the citizens of the member states that it is capable of taking effective action to combat the economic and financial crisis and to increase its importance worldwide. i therefore welcome the commitments made by the commissioner in relation to relations with the european parliament, the fight against cartels, the investigation of dominant companies so that they do not abuse their market power, but also the open and transparent procedure with external stakeholders. the new european commission must find the right answers to tackle high unemployment, low growth and, at the same time, find ways to increase investment and competitiveness. the european union must make full use of its competitive advantages in manufacturing, which include highly skilled workers, a high share of domestic production in exports and high product quality. i therefore believe that we are right to pursue the path of continuous investment in the competitiveness of european industry, because only the necessary investments can ensure its high level. we must try to remove the uncertainty that european companies feel in their dealings with public administrations and thus improve their growth prospects. we must remove all barriers that have a negative impact on competitiveness, including undoubtedly the high electricity and gas prices that we have in the european union, which are higher than in other advanced economies.
written russia is economically isolating itself through its policies and unless it fundamentally changes its stance, the current policy will lead to a reduction in economic activity between the eu and russia. this situation will be easier for us than for russia. at the same time, this challenge for us means, above all, developing economic links with other regions of the world, in particular deepening cooperation with the americas and asia.
the european population is ageing. it's a fact for which we must strategically prepare for real-world implications. europeans will work longer and retire at an older age. we must think about this now, when we make decisions about investments in the future, and see this not only as a challenge but above all as an opportunity. this issue should be brought into the mainstream of our policies, we need to promote the so-called silver economy, which can be an economic opportunity for small and medium-sized enterprises, science and research and professional care oriented towards an ageing population. it's a way to further stimulate our economy. at the same time, we need to put emphasis on reforming health systems in our member states. we should work to make europe's older people self-sufficient and to enable them to live healthier and better lives.
‒ the european commission decided to mobilise the egf for poland after 615 workers lost their jobs as a result of the significant loss of the european union's market share in the chemical industry and its world leadership in the sale of chemicals. after the closure of the undertaking in question, unemployment has increased in the region and the high age and low level of education of the redundant employees makes it impossible for them to find adequate employment. the financial envelope should be eur 115 205.
in writing ‒ zachem is the largest employer in the polish kujawsko-pomorskie voivodeship. the dismissal of 615 employees of this company and its suppliers has a major impact on employment in the region. the timely adoption of decisions and measures is crucial for their effective effectiveness. only then can the measures fulfil their purpose. it is also important to seek measures to support redundant workers over the age of 50, as this is the group of workers most at risk from the point of view of further employment. it is therefore important that clearly defined procedures with clearly defined deadlines for the examination of specific applications are adopted without delay so that the aid granted is effective and at the same time the resulting effects can be assessed in advance.
in writing ‒ i support the restructuring of companies. i am also aware of the importance of sound economic policy to prevent such situations.
in writing - i did not support the proposal because i do not agree to this contribution. the motion for a resolution itself on this vote states that the eu's share of the world chemicals market fell from 35.2% to 17.8% between 1992 and 2012 as a result of globalisation. but this decline was not caused by globalisation itself, but by the eu's lack of competitiveness vis-à-vis the rest of the world. however, further redistribution does not solve the competitiveness problem, but rather exacerbates it.
‒ the european commission decided to mobilise the egf in favour of germany following the loss of 657 jobs as a result of the significant loss of aleo solar's products on the market. from 2005 to 2011, china's share of revenue increased to 45% and germany's share decreased to 21%. after the closure of the undertaking in question, unemployment has increased in the region and the high age and low level of education of the redundant employees makes it impossible for them to find adequate employment. the financial envelope should be eur 1 094 760.
in writing ‒ the case of aleo solar ag illustrates the need for the european union to constantly focus on increasing competitiveness and to take measures to achieve this. it's important to stay one step ahead of these situations. the means to mitigate the impacts would be better used to find innovative solutions that do not lead to job losses, but rather the opposite. it should be noted that a significant part of the support provided will be directed to grants and incentives aimed at training redundant staff in order to prevent long-term unemployment.
‒ i support the training of staff and young people in the affected region. i am also aware of the importance of sound economic policy to prevent such situations.
in writing ‒ i voted against because i do not consider it right to grant the contribution, also in view of the points made in the explanatory statement to this motion. the commission also found that the chinese exporting producers were not able to provide the necessary information to the commission to enable it to assess the likelihood of continuation or recurrence of dumping. this situation exists despite the additional duties and minimum prices for solar modules that the eu approved in 2013. however, the inability to compete with global producers is mainly a consequence of the high regulatory burden of the eu, in this case probably mainly due to substantially higher electricity prices.
‒ the european commission decided to mobilise the egf in favour of belgium after 708 workers lost their jobs as a result of the severe economic problems in the steel industry, in particular the rapid decline in the european union's market share. the number of persons employed in the metallurgical industry decreased by 20% between 2008 and 2013. after the closure of the undertaking in question, unemployment has increased in the region and the high age and low level of education of the redundant employees makes it impossible for them to find adequate employment. the financial envelope should be eur 981 956.
in writing ‒ in order to be effective, it is crucial that measures are taken in a timely manner, i.e. within a reasonable timeframe. only then can they fulfill their purpose. it is therefore important that clearly defined procedures with clear deadlines for the examination of specific applications are adopted without delay, so that the aid granted is effective and at the same time the impact on employment can be assessed in advance. the assistance provided should be focused as a priority on the employees who, due to their age and qualifications, are the most difficult to recruit on the labour market and on the adoption of measures that will lead to sustainable employment.
‒ i did not support the proposal because it is the wrong solution to the wrong problems. the two undertakings concerned are in the steel industry, which is one of the most energy intensive sectors. for companies in this sector, today's high electricity prices in the eu are often prohibitive, as they cannot compete with companies in countries with significantly lower electricity prices, such as china, india or even the usa. if the eu really wants to combat redundancies in this sector, it should fundamentally rethink its climate policy instead of making ad hoc contributions.
‒ the european commission decided to mobilise the egf in favour of belgium after 752 workers lost their jobs as a result of the severe economic problems in the steel industry, in particular the rapid decline in the european union's market share. the number of persons employed in the metallurgical industry decreased by 20% between 2008 and 2013. the decrease in production was even more pronounced in europe than in the usa or russia. after the closure of the undertaking in question, unemployment has increased in the region and the high age and low level of education of the redundant employees makes it impossible for them to find adequate employment. the amount of the financial envelope should be eur 1 591 486.
in writing ‒ the decline in the share of eu-produced steel in world markets from 16% in 2007 to 10% in 2013, with world steel production rising from 1 348,1 million tonnes to 1 649,3 million tonnes, is a clear signal that the european union is not taking sufficient action to increase its competitiveness. the granting of subsidies and the related impact assessments, while being an effective aid, are not a systemic solution but merely a rescue of the negative situation that has arisen. but the eu's citizens need job security above all to live a full life, and so the eu's attention must be constantly focused on increasing competitiveness.
written ‒ i did not support the motion because, as in the previous vote, it is a matter of redundancies in the steel industry, which are clearly the fault of european union policies that lead to drastically higher electricity prices.
‒ the european commission decided to mobilise the egf for belgium after 1030 workers lost their jobs as a result of the declining demand for caterpillar products in europe, which led to the relocation of a significant part of production to third countries. in europe, public and private investment in infrastructure has declined recently. after the relocation of a significant part of the production of the company in question, unemployment has increased in the region and the high age and low level of education of the dismissed employees makes it impossible for them to find adequate employment. the financial envelope should be eur 1 222 854.
in writing ‒ the situation created in caterpillar belgium s.a. is one more example of the lack of attention paid to enhancing the competitiveness of the european union. the effectiveness of measures taken so far in the area concerned should be considered and reviewed. at the same time, it is necessary to stress the need to monitor the use of the grants granted and, on the basis of the findings, to prepare or update the rules for the granting of such aid.
in writing ‒ i voted against the motion because i am convinced that it is not a real solution to the problems in this case. the real solution to unemployment is to improve employment conditions, not to increase redistribution, which due to pressure to raise taxes ultimately makes employment conditions worse.
in writing ‒ oversized trucks pose a major safety problem for the road infrastructure of the european union. these oversized vehicles destroy infrastructure and cause problems for the inhabitants of individual regions as a result of their passage through small villages. it is clear that all sectors should contribute together to the transition to a sustainable economy and the energy union. however, in the case of trucks, which are responsible for up to 26% of emissions, this contribution is not made and the economy of their operation has not improved in any significant way over the last 20 years. it is important that the weight and size limits for such vehicles are clearly set and thus contribute to reducing road fatalities in the european union.
in writing i supported the report on certain road transport regulations. anyone travelling across europe must recognise that our road network is overloaded, overcrowded and any regulatory element that helps to shift some of the freight traffic onto the rail network is welcome. i understand that technological developments now make it possible to attach to the rear of vehicles aerodynamic retractors or folding devices, but we must take care above all that these measures do not increase the maximum length of vehicles, do not increase their load capacity and, most importantly, that road safety is respected. i think that if we want to deal with exceptions, the proposed directive creates such a possibility for exceptions from the maximum authorised weights and dimensions of vehicles and trainsets laid down in directive 96/53/ec and is a sufficient compromise. i also think it is right to introduce weight limits for bus transport.
‒ i supported the proposal because it unifies and streamlines the existing rules and in particular takes account of the knowledge gained from the application practice, which will allow the use of certain types of vehicles that are currently unnecessarily prohibited.
‒ the european economy must become more resilient, but also less vulnerable to systemic risks. the european long-term investment funds contribute to the financing of the real economy of the european union and to the more efficient implementation of its policies. the economic and financial crisis has clearly shown how difficult it can be to obtain funding for transport infrastructure projects, manufacturing or renewable energy projects. it is necessary to adopt uniform rules ensuring that the edifs act as a product with a uniform and stable profile throughout the european union.
in writing ‒ i need to support investment for jobs in the eu now. i welcome the work towards the establishment of a fund for long-term investment, because while building infrastructure in transport, energy and digitalisation has a long-term return, without quality infrastructure we cannot improve the environment for job creation.
in writing ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal because it is designed to allow certain types of entities, such as pension funds or insurance companies, to broaden the range of investments they can make. the proposal aims to boost long-term investment in the eu and, if this is to be achieved by reducing the administrative burden, it is clearly the right solution.
‒ consumers are increasingly using electronic payments globally, but also in europe, and it is therefore very important that they can fully benefit from the benefits of the internal market and be protected from high fees from traders. the existing range and level of interchange fees prevents new entrants with a european union-wide presence who would be willing to operate at lower interchange fees or to abolish them altogether.
in writing ‒ consumers are generally unaware of the fees charged by merchants for the payment instrument they use. various incentive practices applied by issuers (such as travel vouchers, bonuses, rebates, reverse transactions, free insurance, etc.) can drive consumers to use payment instruments and thus generate high fee income. this must be prevented. there is a need for a clearly defined ceiling for the fees that banks charge retailers for processing card payments across the eu. both cross-border and domestic card payments will be subject to limits. this will reduce costs for merchants as well as for cardholders themselves.
in writing ‒ payment cards have gained wide acceptance among all age groups of consumers across the eu over the last decade and are the most commonly used electronic payment instrument for purchases. however, the payment card market in the union is not yet sufficiently integrated as there are many national barriers to many payment solutions and their providers, including barriers to entry. in my view, the same rules for payments should be established across the eu, which will not only provide clarity to consumers and businesses but also lead to more dynamic competition in the internal market. since it is in my interest to facilitate the efficient functioning of the internal market and to simplify the use of electronic payments for the benefit of traders and consumers, i voted in favour of adopting this report.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the cap on interbank fees at 0.2% for debit payments and 0.3% for credit payments. internet payments are becoming cheaper and safer for retailers and consumers alike. the imposition of excessive prices and, more importantly, the misleading of consumers will be brought to an end. in addition, we will provide a level playing field for payment service providers, which will help new players to enter the market. i think the regulation goes beyond itself, because i hope it will encourage innovation. the introduction of new mobile and internet payment solutions would also improve the eu's competitiveness.
in writing ‒ i voted for the regulation. it should be noted, however, that the proposal to set a ceiling on fees aims to achieve a reduction in fees, but in practice it may achieve the opposite. several similar experiments in the past have not shown a direct profit for the consumer. the exact opposite can result an increase in fees. this is a good intention, but eu regulation often goes beyond the stated effort.
in writing i supported the legislative proposal that we have set that the fees that banks charge retailers for processing card payments will have a defined ceiling throughout the eu. the limits, which will apply to both cross-border and domestic card payments, will reduce costs for both merchants and cardholders. this legislation, together with the future payment services directive, will create uniform rules for payments across europe. it will contribute to greater transparency of charges, promote competition and allow retailers and users to choose the payment card scheme that offers them the best terms. payment cards are currently the most commonly used electronic payment instrument for retail purchases, and therefore secure, efficient, competitive and innovative electronic payments are essential if consumers, merchants and companies are to reap the full benefits of the internal market, especially as the world increasingly uses electronic commerce.
in writing ‒ there are areas where regulation is unnecessary because there is natural competition. the area of interchange fees is one such example, and too much interference here can cause prices to rise for people.
‒ the european commission decided to mobilise the egf in favour of belgium after 257 workers lost their jobs. the production of safety glass for the automotive industry has been subject to a severe economic shock. the company therefore experienced a decrease in production and a loss of eur 20 million. after the closure of the undertaking in question, unemployment has increased in the region and the high age and low level of education of the redundant employees makes it impossible for them to find adequate employment. the financial envelope should be eur 1 339 928.
☐ the european globalisation adjustment fund shall be directed as a priority to support and assist in cases where a large number of redundancies, of at least 500, have occurred during the reference period as a result of major structural changes caused by globalisation and the global financial and economic crisis. the granting in other cases, as in the present case, needs to be carefully reviewed so that the egf does not replace other assistance from the funds and that member states are also motivated to seek their own measures and solutions.
in writing. ‒ i find the report on progress on equality between women and men in the eu in 2013 very useful and important, as it draws attention to the problems and inequalities that women face on a daily basis, including violence against women, discrimination. traditional gender roles and stereotypes continue to strongly influence the division of tasks between women and men in households, in the workplace and in society in general, limiting women's employment opportunities and personal and professional development and preventing them from developing fully as independent individuals and economic actors. achieving equality between women and men is not only a moral imperative but also an economic interest for all member states and society, as for example, reducing the gender pay gap, which currently stands at 16.4%, by one percentage point would increase economic growth by 0.1%. moreover, the oecd projects that fully equal participation in the labour market would result in a gdp per capita increase of 12,4% by 2030. ignoring them is a luxury we cannot afford in the current economic climate. however, since the tarabella report also seeks to regulate an area which is entirely a member state competence, namely that member states should ensure easy access to contraception and abortion, i voted against the report.
in writing ‒ despite all the steps taken by the european institutions in the field of women's employment, the fact remains that since 2002 the employment rate of women has increased by only 4.7%, which is woefully low. women are increasingly having to worry about their jobs. the proportion of parttime work is increasing and women often have to settle for lower pay than their male colleagues. the latest reports say that women will not equal men in pay until about 2084, which is no doubt very self-motivating and depressing in the job search. clearly, there are several reasons for the current wage imbalance. one of them is undoubtedly the fact that member states completely ignore directive 2006/54/ec on the implementation of the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment of men and women in matters of employment and occupation. another factor is the outdated adaptation of the maternity leave directive, which does not reflect the real situation and does not provide mothers with sufficient support and protection. women's rights have been relegated to the sidelines of recent times and have become a secondary issue, which is unfortunate and unfair, as gender equality between men and women is a fundamental agenda to which due importance should be attached.
in writing ‒ the equal rights of women and men in all areas of private, professional, social, economic and social life is a subject that needs to be given increased attention. it must be handled responsibly and with sensitivity. for a healthy and strong society, it is important that the work and energy devoted to raising children, who will lead and direct this society in the future, be valued. childcare services must be affordable for all. if the european union is to move forward, it must tackle the issue of equality between women and men effectively and efficiently. it is essential that the commission and the member states take account of the solution of this problem in their policy-making in all areas. any discrimination in this area will be a brake in the future that will affect the development of society.
‒ the 2013 progress report on equality between women and men in the european union addresses areas where the union, and therefore the european parliament, has no competence under the founding treaties. this concerns, in particular, the regulation of abortion, which is a matter for the member states. in this respect, i would point out that no international human rights instrument, nor eu law, recognises the right to terminate a pregnancy as a human right. however, it should be recalled that the charter of fundamental rights clearly enshrines 'everyone's right to life', and this right is one that the eu institutions, including the ep, are obliged not only to respect but also to protect and promote in their recommendations. i therefore consider it unacceptable that phrases encouraging easy access to contraception and abortion should appear periodically in ep own-initiative reports. for the reasons stated above, i am voting against the adoption of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the tarabella report. some issues in this report are exclusively the competence of the eu member states, such as abortion and sexual and reproductive rights. in my opinion we need to focus more on subsidiarity.
i have supported the report because i believe that it is a report which not only allows us to evaluate the results achieved so far in this area, but which can also be a very good springboard for the future to address the other shortcomings and weaknesses mentioned in the report. i am pleased that the eu and its member states have recently adopted a series of legislative measures to protect women, which have created a good basis for the progressive elimination of gender discrimination. i come from and live in the east of slovakia, the region with the highest unemployment rate. in my frequent meetings with women, i get questions that point to limited employment opportunities, to the disparity in pay and remuneration between women and men, to the vulnerability of the elderly group, and so on. i therefore expect the commission and the individual member states to create even better conditions in the next review period to ensure further progress on equality between women and men.
in writing ‒ it is our duty to create a level playing field for men and women. women deserve more attention, not through quotas, but through improved pre-school facilities, more flexible labour laws and support for family policy. it is also important that we leave ethical issues to the national states to decide.
in writing - i did not support the proposal because i do not agree with several of its objectives. for example, i disagree with the recommendation that the commission integrate the 'gender pillar' into the europe 2020 strategy, with the recommendation to make further progress on quotas for women on company boards, with the recommendation that the commission ensure that the language used on social networks is 'neutral', and so on. in addition to distracting from real problems (such as unemployment), it is doubtful whether these and other proposals will actually help women themselves.
in writing ‒ although the issue of equality between men and women is a key one for me, i did not support this report. i fully agree that it is important for women to be able to pursue their professional careers in addition to their family. and that women who stay behind to care for children or a disabled member of the household are not exposed to poverty. i'm also involved in several campaigns to raise awareness of violence against women, and with experts, we're trying to address this particularly serious issue. however, this report also dealt with issues which are the exclusive competence of the member states (sexual and reproductive rights) and i am in favour of respecting the principle of subsidiarity. furthermore, i think that proposals for gender-balanced language on social media make the whole issue of gender equality look absurd and have nothing to do with it.
in writing ‒ it is important that the commitments made by the commissioner concerning relations with the european parliament, the fight against cartels, the investigation of dominant companies so that they do not abuse their market power, but also open and transparent procedures with external stakeholders, are respected and complied with. it is also very useful to have regular meetings between the commissioner and the european parliament in order to intensify the dialogue on competition. the new european commission must find the right answers to tackle high unemployment, low growth and, at the same time, find ways to increase investment and competitiveness. the european union must make full use of its competitive advantages in manufacturing, which include highly skilled workers, a high share of domestic production in exports and high product quality. it is right that we want to pursue the path of continuous investment in the competitiveness of european industry, because only the necessary investments can ensure its high level. we must try to remove the uncertainty that european companies feel in their dealings with public administrations, to improve their growth prospects and to remove all the barriers that have a negative impact on competitiveness, among which undoubtedly include the high electricity and gas prices that we have in the european union, higher than in other advanced economies.
in writing ‒ while the european parliament's oversight of the executive is one of its most important tasks, in the field of eu competition policy, it is necessary that the european parliament also has a major influence on the adoption of legislative measures in this area with a view to enhancing consumer protection. it is therefore necessary for the european commission to step up its monitoring and control activities in the field of competition compliance and, on the basis of its findings, to submit proposals for measures to prevent discriminatory and illegal behaviour in this area.
in writing ‒ i welcome the adoption of the annual report on eu competition policy, as i believe that it is necessary to put emphasis on promoting competition, which will enable the eu to achieve more ambitious targets in the areas of jobs, growth, investment and the competitiveness of the european economy in the world. competition is the driving force of the economy and is the cornerstone of ensuring the proper functioning of a dynamic and innovative internal market. i would remind you that available estimates put the annual damage caused by cartels at eur 181 320 billion, which is about 3% of eu gdp. other damage is caused by abuse of a dominant market position, inadequate state aid and weak application of public procurement rules. i also regard the misuse of the structural funds as a worrying practice, which should be addressed, inter alia, in the context of competition. finally, i join the call for member states to introduce new eu public procurement rules in a timely manner, including social, environmental and innovative features, which will allow public authorities to make better choices.
in writing ‒ healthy competition is important to improve competitiveness. in any situation, we must take into account the development of healthy competition, which ultimately always translates into benefits for the end user.
in writing competition policy and competitiveness are of paramount importance to the success of the eu as a whole and thus of its citizens. through an effective competition policy, we can strengthen and enhance the eu's standing in the world. this policy has improved consumer care in many ways and has also been an important tool in removing obstacles to the free movement of goods, services, persons and capital. competition policy is a policy conducive to a healthy, competitive business environment, and therefore state aid must be allocated only in a way that does not distort competition, favours large companies over small and medium-sized enterprises, foreign investors over domestic ones. the granting of state aid must be subject to clear criteria, which must also be rigorously controlled. i supported the report and the call for an uncompromising analysis of what constitutes a responsible national tax policy, particularly with regard to unfair tax policies, tax treaties and exceptions that distort competition.
in writing ‒ i abstained on the motion because i agree with the general spirit of the report, that is to say, the effort to promote competitiveness, as i do with many of the proposals put forward, but there are also proposals in the report to which i have fundamental reservations. these include, for example, the fight against 'social dumping', the call for measures in the field of competition and taxation, i.e. intervention in the tax policies of the member states, as well as the call for action against alleged unfair behaviour by google, and so on.
‒ the european central bank has recently focused on reducing the level of tension in financial markets and restoring investor confidence in the single currency, the euro. however, european economic activity remains weak and muted, with negative gdp growth for the second year in a row, also linked to continued declines in inflation rates and persistent disparities between member states. however, it is encouraging that the european central bank is confirming its readiness to use non-conventional instruments within its mandate and to combat low inflation. the european central bank must continue to use its credibility to support the european banking system.
‒ the single european currency, the euro, is proving its own success story. for its continued stability, respect for the agreed rules, sound budgetary management and the necessary structural reforms for development are essential.
i am sure that you too, commissioner, see the european union budget as an instrument that will help to boost economic growth and create jobs. in the 2015 budget negotiations, we have shown that members of the european parliament can be united. however, the council has so far failed to fulfil its own commitment under the treaties of rome to promote a system of budget revenue that is independent of the current political or economic situation in a country. if we cannot solve a fundamental issue such as the problem of unpaid invoices, if the situation looks like parliament, the commission and most of the council understand the problem, but some member states are holding back for their own individual reasons, then we will be pulling the short leash in the world. the debate on how to create a smart european budget will take longer than the debate on the 2016 budget. the citizens of the european union deserve to see the european union achieve its ambitions without increasing the overall tax burden.
commissioner georgieva, in our country, slovakia, corruption is present in virtually every single project financed by the european funds. since you're from bulgaria, you know exactly what i'm talking about. the fact that the political elite are directly involved in this corruption of the euro funds is a public secret not only in slovakia, but also in many other countries. and that's why nothing's ever really investigated. so olaf is not going to investigate anything either. i have made 13 complaints to olaf in the last year; from my own experience, these gentlemen are hibernating. if you really want to fight corruption in the european funds, abolish the european funds. they're not bringing anything anyway. look at greece, they got the most and look at how terrible they are. this is the solution. the idea of the european union is not to redistribute money in a socialist way, but a common market.
in writing. in 2013, member states reported 1 609 irregularities as fraudulent, involving eu aid totalling eur 309 million. the number of fraudulent irregularities reported by each member state continues to vary significantly, which the committee's report says is due to the fact that member states use different approaches to detecting fraud and, in some cases, do not have a uniform interpretation of the legal framework. however, differences in interpretation can easily support protectionist aid. in this context, i call on the commission to make greater efforts to achieve a uniform interpretation of the legal framework, which could lead to greater transparency in the detection of fraudulent irregularities. but we can't stop here! although some statistics show that we are becoming more successful at detecting fraud, there is still a lot of money that disappears without us knowing where it ends up. in addition to pushing for a single rulebook, we should also focus on successful initiatives such as the romuluk customs operation and continue to support organisations such as the european anti-fraud office. in addition, we are excited to see what the european public prosecutor's office will be able to do, which, if properly operated, could at least partially remedy the shortcomings listed above.
i consider the fight against fraud and corruption to be one of the most important priorities at the moment, when we decide on each euro, whether to give priority to supporting young people, the unemployed, or to subsidies to underdeveloped or remote regions. the report evaluates the results achieved, but also sets out concrete measures to ensure that european funds are not corrupted. fraud knows no borders and its detection is becoming increasingly complex and international. i therefore welcome the fact that, thanks to the new rules, the anti-fraud environment at national level has been considerably strengthened over the last five years. i also take it as a positive sign that the average length of investigations was reduced in 2013 as a result of the increased enforcement of fraud detection measures. i expect the institutions responsible to continue their successful investigative work in the period ahead and to improve cooperation between the eu and its member states, which will intensify the fight against fraud across europe by contributing with quality legislative measures.
first of all, i want to say that i support the efforts of montenegro as a candidate country to become a full member of the european union. as a slovak mep, i also fully understand montenegro's difficulties in meeting the demanding challenges of the accession process, because as a small country, which in the past belonged to a union of several states of different nationalities, religions or ethnic groups, it is not an easy situation as a country with 600 000 inhabitants. i appreciate the progress made in montenegro in 2014, the reforms adopted, whether in the field of the judiciary or the new law on the financing of political parties. but it still faces important challenges, some of which have already been mentioned here: eradicating corruption, depoliticising public administration, increasing transparency at all levels of governance and more. the accession process is difficult and requires deep, often very unpopular measures for the population, but i believe that montenegro will manage to do all of this and become a trusted partner of the other member states.
in writing.– montenegro is the leader in the accession process, and should be encouraged to continue the good work. this progress is recorded in the fact that 16 chapters are opened, two provisionally closed, and more to be opened this year. furthermore we should appreciate montenegro’s clear alignment with the eu’s cfsp and its positive role played in the region, especially with respect to good neighbourly relations. however, there are a number of outstanding issues that require our attention and work from our montenegrin partners. we continue to pay attention to further advances in the rule of law, fight against organised crime and corruption and judicial reform. we should also strive to support the parliament’s role in the eu integration process, especially its overseeing role. we should also continue to advocate a media environment that is free of political interference and one in which journalists can freely conduct their profession.
madam president, i am disappointed that, year after year, we are discussing practically the same situation in relation to the integration process of the republic of macedonia. the consequences of holding up this process are more visible today than ever before. i am quite disturbed when i look at the current political situation, since it overshadows the progress made in recent years. it is unfortunate that political stalemate has evolved into sharp confrontation between the opposition and the ruling party. moreover, the wiretapping scandal is hitting the very basis of the political and democratic system in the society and, even worse, is undermining its citizens’ trust in politics. in this respect, we should be ready to help the country to get back on track. i believe that the most efficient way to do this is to stimulate the integration and reform agenda. much as the country is becoming a hostage to its internal situation, i do not agree that it should remain a hostage to the bilateral issues. as a matter of fact, this trend is becoming popular all around the region, with the republic of macedonia as a very unfortunate precedent. this is a pity because it shows our inability to deal with the issues in the region in an efficient and constructive manner. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– dear colleague, the structure of the european institutions is such that it is the european commission which issues the progress report on each country every year. the recommendations of the european commission are to start the accession negotiations and, in previous years, this parliament always supported it. for me, this is the most important report and it determines how i should behave on this issue.
madam president, serbia is making progress in the integration process and i am glad that the good, balanced and objective report by david mcallister recognises this. it is important that there is a commitment to this process at high political level and i hope that it will be strengthened further in the government’s work and positions. therefore, i think it is right that we are calling for the negotiating chapters to be opened. it will be critical for serbia to continue the reform process. we have seen a difficult start to the economic and social reforms, and we expect continuing progress on reforming the judiciary. in this respect i would like to stress the importance not only of the independence of certain institutions, such as the ombudsman’s office, but also of resolving the issues related to cases of so—called abuse of office. serbia has to continue its engagement and dialogue with kosovo. support from the government and political elites for this process is the key in terms of stability in the region.
madam president, first let me express my appreciation and thanks to ulrike lunacek for her report and for her engagement in the issue of kosovo. following the long pause after the elections, the new kosovo government needs to concentrate on substantial issues concerning the country’s development. it is clear what will be the consequences of failure in economic and social policies. kosovo needs urgently to address the economic development and extremely high unemployment. the recent growth of asylum seekers is just one among many visible consequences. for our part, we should be ready to adopt the stabilisation and association agreement (saa) and move on with visa liberalisation. on the other hand, it is crucial that the new government prioritises the issues of the fight against corruption and organised crime. also we still await the results of the investigation concerning the allegation of corruption in eulex. if we want to remain credible – and we want to remain credible – we should be able to shed light on this case.
in writing i am pleased that the members of the committee on budgets have supported my nine amendments, which form part of the entire resolution which we will be voting on today in the european parliament. among them is an amendment which fundamentally changes the way the european budget is financed. the existing system of own resources is complex, unfair and confusing for citizens the fiscal situation of the member states can be alleviated by a new system of own resources which reduces the current contributions of the member states based on the e gross national income. e member states will thus be saved money and will be able to make consolidation efforts the committee on budgets therefore attaches great importance to the high level group on own resources and supports the debate on the new own resources system, which should lead to real financial reform. i hope that the european parliament, the commission and the council will take appropriate steps to follow up the final report of the groups mentioned above. the european commission has launched a new initiative to accelerate the creation and launch of a new era of real resources.
in writing ‒ the european commission proposal concerns the codification and recasting of the regulation on common rules for imports from third countries. as regards the processing itself, the main amendment concerning the update of the annex concerns countries that have become wto members. as regards the overall report and the proposals themselves, these are mainly technical corrections and the regulation itself covers only a limited number of countries. such proposals by the european commission also aim to correct some of the errors that currently exist and to ensure that decision-making procedures in the field of trade policy are in line with the lisbon treaty.
‒ i supported the proposal, in particular because it streamlines existing legislation without increasing the regulatory burden.
‒ the accession of croatia to the european union has given a new dimension to the european union's policy towards the balkans. i therefore strongly support the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council in relation to the application of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and the republic of montenegro. the proposal is based on the 1994 interinstitutional agreement and aims to codify in a clear and simple manner the existing texts in force, without altering their substance.
written ‒ the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council based on the interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994 opening and providing for the administration of certain tariff quotas of the european union for high-quality beef and veal, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat and meslin, offal, milling by-products and other residues required recodification to improve the use of the regulation.
‒ the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council based on the interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994 on the importation into the european union of agricultural products originating in turkey needed to be recodified in order to improve the application of that regulation.
written ‒ the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council based on the interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994 suspending certain concessions relating to the importation into the european union of agricultural products originating in turkey required recodification to improve the application of that regulation.
‒ fishing is one of the most important industrial sectors in several member states of the european union. the fisheries management area is managed by a regional organisation (rfmo) whose main objective is to promote the development, conservation and rational management of living marine resources, as well as the sustainable development of aquaculture in the mediterranean and black seas. the need to amend and clarify the objectives and functions of the agreement and to enhance its effectiveness has led to its amendment since 2013. the result is a revised structure and content of the previous agreement and also alignment with the modern rfmo instruments.
‒ i agree with the proposal, since it contributes in particular to a more efficient functioning of the current agreement and to a clearer definition of its objectives.
in writing ‒ i welcome the fact that the three pillars of the budget are employment, enterprise and entrepreneurship for sustainable and inclusive growth in the european union. we will thus highlight the potential and added value of the european union budget for job creation as well as for the development of enterprises and entrepreneurship in all member states. we will also highlight the contribution of the european union budget to economic, social and territorial cohesion and its potential for energy transition and energy networking for job creation and growth. the 2016 budget is also crucial because it should serve as a criterion for the post-election review and revision of the mff.
in writing - i voted against. i cannot agree to preferring certain development programmes over others. i also share my serious doubts about the ad hoc reallocation of horizon 2020 funds. moreover, the future draft eu budget for 2016 is at least questionable in view of the lack of effective control mechanisms within the eu and the repeated failure of the court of auditors to approve the eu budget.
‒ it is important that we give a clear signal of the need for development impulses in the 2016 budget and that the guarantee for the so-called juncker strategy package is a clear and integral part of this budget.
in writing ‒ i did not agree with the proposal as it supports increasing european union spending to promote growth and employment. as can be seen, the proposer does not understand that jobs are not created by redistribution of money, but by entrepreneurs who have to rally to similar projects through higher taxes.
in writing ‒ the protection of the financial interests of the european union is of particular importance not only because of and in the context of insufficient resources in the budget of the european union, but also because of the economic problems of the member states. as many as 321 irregularities reported as fraudulent concerned cohesion policy, and although the amounts involved have decreased and a gradual improvement can be observed on the basis of experience from previous years, it is precisely such cases that put cohesion policy at risk. we therefore stress the importance of external assistance and controls and call on the member states to designate an anti-fraud coordination office (afcos) and on the european commission to ensure coordination and harmonisation of its activities in all member states.
in writing ‒ any misuse of eu funds entails losses not only for individuals but also for the union and harms the interests of each member state. in the 2007-2013 programming period, administrative checks, on-the-spot checks and audit operations resulted in a more than 300% higher rate of detection of fraudulent irregularities compared to the previous year. the commission and the member states must nevertheless review existing measures and propose a new, effective system to prevent abuses of the the commission has also proposed that the european anti-fraud office (olaf) be given a mandate to investigate and prosecute fraud in the eu. the court of justice has also held that the principle of proportionality requires that criminal sanctions be effective and rapidly enforceable in order to increase the effectiveness of the criminal sanctions. action and prevention.
in writing. ‒ the 2013 annual report on the protection of the eu's financial interests, which assesses the fight against fraud, corruption, money laundering and other illegal activities adversely affecting the financial interests of the union and its citizens, provides welcome information on the wide range of legal and administrative measures taken by the commission. the data and statistics available show that the effectiveness of legal instruments needs to be further enhanced. for example, the number of reported fraudulent irregularities increased by up to 30% in 2013 compared to 2012, although their financial impact of eur 309 million of eu funds decreased by 21%. i find the low success rate of fraud enforcement, at only around 23%, very worrying, well below the average rate of 33,5% for the period 2008-2012. i therefore call on the responsible authorities of the member states, but also on the relevant commission departments, to take a responsible approach to the recovery of funds illegally paid, including by increasing the detection of fraudulent acts.
in writing. ‒ in 2013, member states reported 1 609 irregularities as fraudulent, involving eu aid totalling eur 309 million. the number of fraudulent irregularities reported by each member state continues to vary significantly, which the committee's report says is due to the fact that member states use different approaches to detecting fraud and, in some cases, do not have a uniform interpretation of the legal framework. however, differences in interpretation can easily support protectionist aid. in this context, i call on the commission to make greater efforts to achieve a uniform interpretation of the legal framework, which could lead to greater transparency in the detection of fraudulent irregularities. but we can't stop here! although some statistics show that we are becoming more successful at detecting fraud, there is still a lot of money that disappears without us knowing where it ends up. in addition to pushing for a single rulebook, we should also focus on successful initiatives such as the romuluk customs operation and continue to support organisations such as the european anti-fraud office. in addition, we are excited to see what the european public prosecutor's office will be able to do, which, if properly operated, could at least partially remedy the shortcomings listed above.
in writing. – i voted for this report. regarding the existing economic problems in member states, the insufficient resources in the eu budget and the importance of maintaining moral standards, there is a need to protect the financial interests of the european union, and the report emphasises that eu funds must be properly managed and used in the most efficient way possible. however in the case of the call to establish the european public prosecutor’s office, there is a need to underline the subsidiarity of the member states.
in writing ‒ i abstained from the vote. the current efforts of the european union in the fight against fraud are by no means sufficient and much more needs to be done to make taxpayers' money really more efficient.
in writing ‒ good financial management is intended to guarantee the achievement of eu objectives and to reassure eu citizens about the transparent use of the european budget. in view of the economic problems of the member states, the protection of the eu's financial interests is of paramount importance. fraudulent mechanisms caused by non-compliance by individual member states, such as the submission of inaccurate data and corruption, pose threats to the eu budget. we therefore need to strengthen cooperation between the member states and the commission, in particular between the police and judicial authorities. the commission should establish a mechanism for the exchange of information between the competent national institutions in order to allow for the comparison of accounting records between member states in order to detect any transnational fraud. the commission should also ensure transparency, for example by providing reliable data on eu funds managed by member states on the commission's website. some member states do not take appropriate action against fraud, merely implementing corrective measures without investigating the crime or sanctioning the persons responsible.
in writing ‒ in the balkans region, montenegro is currently the only state that is able to conclude negotiating chapters with the european union. as with other candidate countries in recent history, there are also weaknesses that we have identified in montenegro in this evaluation. this is particularly the case with the border issue with the european union member state croatia, which we want to be addressed at the international court of justice in the hague, as well as improving progress in the area of women's rights, gender equality, women's representation in the labour market, where we call on montenegro to put in place the necessary measures and make changes. last but not least, we call on montenegro to make progress on environment and climate change by strengthening administrative capacity and promoting a green economic model.
in writing ‒ the commission working document entitled '2014 progress report on montenegro' has provided a wealth of information on the positive developments in montenegro, which is continuously working on negotiating chapters with the eu and is nearing their conclusion. i welcome such progress in the accession negotiations and encourage montenegro to continue to take a determined and responsible approach to the implementation of the country's reform strategies and action plans. particular attention should be paid to the fight against corruption, ensuring the independence of the judiciary and fundamental rights and freedoms, in particular in the area of freedom of expression and the media. i voted in favour of the report presented, which gives a balanced assessment of the progress made, while offering advice on areas for improvement.
‒ enlargement of the eu means that the western balkan countries will have an area of peace and stability in this part of europe. it is important that we give montenegro a clear signal that it is welcome as a full member of the european family in the future.
‒ i supported the proposal as i welcome the progress made by montenegro. montenegro's reform efforts are not only beneficial for montenegro itself, but the better functioning of its economy will also help all its trading partners, including the european union.
☐ the 2014 progress report of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia recalls nine times in succession to set the date for the opening of accession negotiations without further delay, in particular in order to support reforms and strengthen the democratisation process. the issue of the country's name, which is a bilateral issue, must not be an obstacle to the opening of accession negotiations. we therefore call on the governments of macedonia and greece to take concrete steps towards accepting and adopting a mutually acceptable solution. the member states have committed themselves to return to this issue in 2015 with a view to opening accession negotiations. the european union must become more actively involved in the name issue itself in order to reach a solution. we welcome the fact that the european union agenda remains a strategic priority for the country, but we call for a reversal of policies and practices that could be an obstacle to its european future.
‒ i voted in favour because i believe in the continuation of the high-level accession dialogue, which can help the quality of the reform process in the country.
in writing, i welcome the progress that macedonia has made. we are ready to share with him our experience of the reform process. eu enlargement has proved to be a success story and i am sure it should continue in the western balkans.
in writing ‒ the report notes the agreement to open accession talks between the european union and serbia from january 2014. we consider serbia to be one of the most important countries in the balkan region and welcome the progress that has been made. the serbian government has shown its commitment to tackling systemic and socioeconomic reforms in the interests of the european integration process. the opening of negotiating chapters should take into account the development and political context of relations between serbia and the european union, in particular chapters 23 and 24. we also insist that chapter 35 as regards relations with kosovo should be clearly defined.
in writing ‒ i abstained from voting in respect of the official position of the slovak republic vis-à-vis the republic of serbia.
in writing, i welcome the progress serbia has made. we are ready to share with him our experience of the reform process. eu enlargement has proved to be a success story and i am sure it should continue in the western balkans.
in writing ‒ i abstained because i respect the official position of the slovak republic towards the territory of kosovo.
in writing ‒ i am aware that the essential condition for kosovo's continuing european path is its agreement and settlement of its disputes with serbia. the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism and the fight against organised crime. the expansion of dialogue between the governments in belgrade and pristina is the hope that the two parts of the former yugoslavia will one day meet again in a united europe. this time, of our own free will, as equal partners.
‒ the euro area is still struggling with the consequences of the long economic downturn caused by the economic crisis after 2008. the recovery of the economy is very fragile and needs to be strengthened if we are to ensure higher growth and jobs. this could help to ensure access based on three main pillars, namely supporting investment, promoting the responsibility of growth-friendly fiscal consolidation and accelerating structural reforms. this approach should also be incorporated in the forthcoming recommendations for individual member states. at the same time, however, we also need to simplify existing procedures to improve the european semester and to involve national parliaments more in order to strengthen accountability at national level as well.
in writing, the european union is not achieving the economic growth targets it has set. the commission must therefore revise its development forecasts. the situation is serious and requires that we seek all possible resources and development tools. the high rate of long-term unemployment coupled with the high percentage of the population of the european union at risk of poverty and social exclusion is alarming. unemployment has not only economic and social consequences but also affects the mental life and health of the population. investment support measures are an important factor which, if used meaningfully, will also affect employment growth. it is essential that the commission, in cooperation with the member states, seeks solutions for the most vulnerable regions and populations that will halt the current negative developments and lead to the creation of permanent jobs. i am pleased that the european parliament has today adopted my amendments, including one which fundamentally alters the unfair and incomprehensible way in which the european budget is financed. the billions of euros saved will be used by the member states to solve their consolidation problems.
in writing ‒ the eu has clear rules on budgetary accountability and it is crucial for further development that we adhere to them. to stimulate compliance, we need to motivate responsible countries and financially punish irresponsible ones.
in writing ‒ i did not support the report presented because it supports a number of policies which are directly contrary to achieving real growth. these include progress on the consolidated corporate tax base, a step towards reducing tax competition, and, for example, calls for greater redistribution in some programmes, which are also not growth-friendly.
‒ solidarity is the main value on which the european union is built. therefore, even in the case of support for economic policies, it is important that member states focus not only on fiscal consolidation but also on structural reforms in a socially balanced and economically efficient manner. structural reforms in the member states must be linked not only to growth but also to the creation of decent jobs, and member states must bring the flexibility and security needed to ensure decent wages into these labour market-relevant reforms. as regards reducing macroeconomic imbalances characteristic of most member states, we support the recommendation that the central priority should be to increase growth, employment and reduce poverty.
i supported a report that makes a very realistic reference to the eu's employment problems. almost 25 million people are unemployed, long-term unemployment has risen by 4%. the youth unemployment rate has not declined significantly either. alarmingly, up to 75% of the longterm unemployed are under 35. the starting points are ambitious economic policies for growth, the creation of quality jobs and the fight against deflation. investment plans must be geared to promoting sustainable growth, creating quality jobs and fostering social progress. the use of the european funds must be made more efficient for training and active labour policies, which will be directed at developing human capital. member states must adapt their employment policies to support the long-term unemployed, young people, older unemployed, women and other priority groups most affected by the crisis, such as people with disabilities, including through lifelong learning and training, and to combat low levels of education.
‒ i did not support the proposal because it represents intentions that would have a very fundamental impact on employment in the european union. these include the intention to create a common european framework for a minimum wage, a proposal to introduce a basic income in the eu, and other initiatives.
in writing ‒ the third report on the governance of the single market in the european semester focuses on the single market for growth and jobs. the single market is the core of europe's competitiveness and is also its greatest economic power. however, the economic crisis has revealed that the european union needs to take action to improve its economic model to restore competitiveness. the single market is currently not living up to its full potential and it is our duty to adapt it to the 21st century in order to make european businesses more competitive. we also need to improve consumers' access to high-quality products and services in the european union. the recovery of the single market will thus also serve to increase employment and expand opportunities for citizens of the member states, thereby making them full members of the single market.
in writing ‒ the successful achievement of the objectives of the single european market requires the adoption of clear, understandable and at the same time as simple as possible regulations and directives, which must be transposed into the internal standards of the member states in a flexible manner. member states must make every effort to simplify their standards so that they are not an obstacle but, on the contrary, a driving force for the development of employment, economic growth and competitiveness throughout the european union.
in writing. ‒ i am very pleased that after a somewhat bumpy road we have managed to secure the support. i welcome the definition of the specific single market pillar to provide greater support for the real economy and for growth and jobs in the european semester. in particular, i see a great need for training individuals and companies in the digital age, including the introduction of the latest technologies in the energy sector. this would greatly help them catch up, as the presence of a thriving digital single market is essential to stimulate growth, create new jobs and keep the european union competitive. by doing so, we would be representing not only the interests of the companies, but also the interests of the consumers themselves, which is one of our top priorities. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. however, to achieve this, we must first address our concerns about fragmentation and legal certainty. for the economy and the social market economy to develop, the member states must act together, as a single entity, like the european union.
in writing, the eu single market, with its 500 million people, has played and i expect it will continue to play a key role in meeting the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. although a strong, innovative and competitive single market has recently succeeded in expanding trade within the eu-28 and thus fostering job creation, stimulating growth and competitiveness, i think, and the report agrees with me, that the single market is still not living up to its full potential at present. i voted for the report because i believe that the single market must work in practice and bring more choice for consumers and better opportunities for businesses. i believe that the measures taken will ensure even greater protection for consumers, in particular with regard to respect for fundamental rights, including equality of opportunity, choice and quality of products and prices. in this context, i also consider it of particular importance that the commission and the member states, within their means, strengthen the governance of the single market, improve its implementation and enforcement and devise the instruments and mechanisms that will lead to its revival and smooth functioning.
‒ the single european market is one of the most important pillars of european integration and we must continue to break down barriers, especially in services, in order to reap the full benefits of the single market. this is also the case for the digital single market. one example of how to take advantage of the common market is the upcoming sup legislation for the creation of new companies.
in writing ‒ i agree with the proposal, as it points to a number of stimulating solutions for improving the functioning of the single market and thus of the european union's economy. these include calls to reduce the regulatory burden, remove existing barriers to the single market and so on. contrary to the frequent intention to increase redistribution or otherwise increase intervention in the economy, these are the means that are really beneficial for boosting growth.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that the joint resolution on sexual abuse of children online includes some of the wording that i introduced. the online presentation of child sexual abuse is a serious crime that requires a comprehensive approach. this should include effective detection of crime, prosecution of perpetrators, protection of child victims and measures to prevent the phenomenon. it is essential that the offenders are subject to effective, proportionate and dissuasive penalties. the internet is becoming more widely available, but it also poses more and more dangers that many minors are unaware of. since images and videos can be shared long after the sexual abuse has occurred and can remain freely available to anyone on the internet, victims are constantly at risk of being victimized and stigmatized again. the darknet also deserves special attention, as it presents specific challenges. i consider it important that existing eu legislation, in particular directive 2011/93/eu on combating sexual abuse of children, is transposed into the national legal order of all member states without delay. a coordinated european approach is needed. in order to act effectively, it is essential that member states take seriously the commitments they have made in european and international fora and do everything possible to protect children. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing ‒ one of the main objectives of respecting fundamental human rights is to protect children and to ensure a safe environment for their uninterrupted development. the rapid technological progress and development of the internet, but in particular illegal content or personal data of children on the internet, require measures to ensure that illegal content is removed immediately, reported to the competent authorities and the perpetrators are subsequently investigated and prosecuted. the cross-border nature of the internet requires a comprehensive and coordinated european approach, which would include the fight against this crime alongside the protection of fundamental rights, privacy and data. the european commission, together with member state governments, civil society, social media companies, parents, teachers and others, must also play an active role in raising awareness of this issue in order to identify potential risks and threats to children.
in writing ‒ the sexual abuse of children via the internet is a very sensitive but above all highly topical global problem that requires the attention of all of us. social networks cannot replace a child's contact with family, friends, society. ignoring the child's problems and interests increases the likelihood that the child will become a victim of such wrongdoing. solving this problem requires the active cooperation of the family, the school, society and the state. the detection of such illegal activity must be the priority of all investigative and control bodies. it is the task of the commission and the member states to establish the broadest possible system of control and safety measures and regulations to prevent such activity in advance.
in writing ‒ children are clearly the most vulnerable group in our society and therefore deserve special attention and protection from all adults, including legislators. i consider sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children to be particularly reprehensible violations of fundamental rights and therefore a sufficiently effective strategy for the legal protection of children is needed, which, given the seriousness of the offences, must include criminal law instruments such as criminal prosecution and the imposition of penalties. i find it sad that more than half of the member states have not transposed as a matter of priority the 2011 directive on combating the sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children and child pornography, which was to have been transposed into national law by 18 december 2013. this is a very serious problem which requires close transnational cooperation within the eu, but also on a global scale.
in writing. - child sexual abuse is an abhorrent crime and unacceptable. but it's not as rare as we'd like. and the internet is a very good platform for that. i confess that i was shocked by the findings of the europol cybercrime report. of course, i also know that human freedoms are inalienable. they can only be restricted in very exceptional cases and under strict conditions. and i also know that data protection is a key issue today. however, i find it ridiculous that while commercial websites are surfing people's data on the web and bombarding them with advertisements accordingly, law enforcement agencies cannot intervene even in cases where they can investigate the perpetrators of the crime, because they are virtually exempt from our data protection rules. this is not right, and i don't think we should be measuring when we're talking about such heinous crimes. i urge that we find the means to conduct a harmonized investigation between member states as soon as possible.
‒ freedom has its limits when its exercise endangers others. especially when it comes to the most vulnerable. i am in favour of monitoring internet content where justified. however, strict control and transparency of the whole process must be ensured to avoid misuse of the information obtained.
in writing the sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children and material depicting the sexual abuse of children constitute a serious violation of fundamental rights, in particular the right of children to protection and care. the current trends and development of commercial sexual exploitation of children online, including new business models for commercial distribution, are worrying. the internet environment puts children at particular risk because they have very easy and virtually unrestricted access to child sexual abuse material, are themselves easily manipulated, are exposed to bullying, intimidation many times without even realizing it. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the protection of children and young people, in particular by ensuring that the union's policies on the protection of children and young people are implemented in a transparent and non-discriminatory manner. international cooperation between law enforcement agencies and organisations concerned with the protection of children's rights and a comprehensive and coordinated approach to the development of european policies to combat the sexual abuse of children must also be of great importance.
in writing - i abstained from voting on the motion. i consider the sexual abuse of children via the internet to be a very serious problem. however, the proposed solutions may lead to restrictions on internet freedom without actually addressing the causes of the problems presented.
in writing ‒ the sexual abuse of children and the depiction of child abuse seriously infringe fundamental rights, in particular the right of children to protection and care necessary for their well-being. measures taken by eu member states to tackle illegal content on the internet have not always been effective. in the online environment, sexual abuse can take many forms, with young people being persuaded or forced to post their own sexually explicit images online. children's personal data on the internet must be protected. at the same time, we must inform children in an appropriate way about the risks of using personal data online. illegal content should be removed immediately in cooperation with internet service providers. the commission and the member states should combat the growing trends in the distribution of child abuse material, such as the so-called deep web, the darknet and the pay-per-view phenomenon. it is important that member states provide national contact points with sufficient financial resources to enable them to report criminal content online.
in writing ‒ i supported a resolution that cannot be disagreed with. it also mentions prevention, which is key to protecting children in cyberspace. the commission should focus on it and inform not only children but also parents or educators about the risks on the internet. it would be helpful to have in hand specific case numbers for recent years as part of prevention. i believe that closer cooperation between europol, eurostat, non-profit organisations and the private sector could bring more detailed statistics on victims and perpetrators, and thus better tackle the exploitation of the most vulnerable in the future.
mr president, the murder of boris nemtsov is not just a shocking crime, it is a reflection of the poisonous state of russia’s politics, marked by paranoia and nationalist hatred. of course, it is still possible that common sense will prevail in the kremlin, but it looks more likely that russia will head toward international isolation, economic autarchy and a closed dictatorship with an ultra—nationalist, ultra—conservative and militarist ideology. if that happened it would be entirely mr putin’s fault, or even his design, but european foreign policy is completely unprepared for this future. it lacks the experience, instruments or language for a relationship of this kind. the only precedent, the cold war, is not a viable paradigm. it is time that the eu started to think about a strategy for stable co—existence with an isolated and blatantly aggressive russia.
madam president, the eu’s international environment is volatile, with dire security challenges that range from long—lasting conflicts to the steady rise of authoritarianism and extremism. the current developments are unprecedented in the period since the end of the cold war, and the situation is all the more pressing in that most of them are occurring in our immediate neighbourhood, both in the south and in the east. we need to react to this demanding international situation. the eu needs to step up its international role and to speak with one voice. we need to be strategic, consistent, coherent and efficient. strong eu action is the only way forward in tackling the myriad of threats on our doorstep. in our response to challenges we should not lose sight of our values, which are directly linked to democracy, respect for human rights, the rule of law and, ultimately, peace. my utmost appreciation to elmar brok for preparing a very good, objective report.
mr president, europe needs to start thinking of itself as a serious geopolitical and security actor. it must treat its common external action in strategic terms. take frozen conflicts, from transnistria and nagorno-karabakh to cyprus. these are serious security challenges in our backyard, but the eu simply choses to neglect them, ostensibly because it was imprudent to meddle because each conflict has its own history and established resolution format which, by the way, has done nothing to resolve them. if the eu wants to be taken seriously as a security actor, it must assume a much more active role in conflict resolution, especially in transnistria, nagorno-karabakh and potentially in ukraine.
vpc/hr. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur and all those who have worked with him for the excellent and extremely useful report accompanying the beginning of my work in the field of human rights and by saying that i share not only the analysis but also the invitation. our task, that of the european union, is to rise to the challenge and at the same time find the practical ways of making small, big steps forward in each of the situations where human rights are either violated or called into question. mr president, i will continue in english to say that it is a great honour for me to participate in the discussion on the annual report on human rights and democracy. as your report rightly recalls, the charter of fundamental rights affirms that we must place the individual and human dignity at the centre of eu activities. protection of human rights is, and will remain, the over-arching priority of our external action. it is not just one of the priorities, but the over-arching priority, and must remain the solid foundation underpinning all our relations with third countries. this house embodies this commitment. parliament has constantly promoted human rights in its everyday political work with very concrete actions. it has visited countries in which these rights are threatened. your urgency debates and the highly symbolic value of the sakharov prize, these actions are key components of parliamentary diplomacy and are needed as a fundamental element of our overall european policy on democracy and human rights. human rights in the world remain a challenge, but i share the view that we have moved forward in a number of important areas; in particular since the adoption of the 2012 human rights package and through our first eu action plan on human rights for the 2012-2015 phase. the plan has allowed the european union to fulfil a number of important objectives. all european actors have been engaged and committed to working on human rights and it has become a fully-owned process. we have given ourselves the tools to start applying and mainstreaming human rights into our external policies. we have announced our visibility and accountability in this area, thanks to the human rights dialogues that we have engaged in with our strategic partners in the course of these past years. your support in implementing this action plan has been crucial. now i believe it is time to move forward and in particular to structure our common work based on a well-defined set of priorities. since i have assumed my duties, i have engaged in moving the human rights agenda forward, starting with the definition of a new action plan and i want this action plan to be based, not just on a list of actions, but on political priorities. in this framework, i think one of our priorities should be to support democratic transitions around us. our diplomatic efforts and your parliamentary work should go hand in hand in a mutually supportive way. in this respect, i am pleased to see in your report that you appreciate our efforts to report regularly to this house, in the many formats that we have agreed. we are also engaging more in reaching out to civil society organisations as key partners in order to consult on key eu human rights and policy developments. holding consultations with civil society before and after human rights dialogues, on all important policy developments and after the meetings of the council working group on human rights, has become systematic practice. our annual ngo human rights forum in december last year, attended by more than 200 civil society participants from around the world, has been a key opportunity to discuss and review european policies in the area of freedom of expression. i am delighted to see that you share the deep appreciation i have for the action of the eu special representative for human rights, and a former colleague of yours, stavros lambrinidis. stavros i am not saying this as he is sitting next to me is invaluable in helping us to promote our human rights priorities across the world, engaging with key partners, enhancing cooperation with regional mechanisms, and advancing the universality of human rights. it is with great pleasure that i can officially announce here to you today that i have decided to extend his mandate and that the council endorsed this decision. (applause from the left) coming back to our joint work of setting priorities for our human rights action, allow me some substantial remarks. on a general point, let me say i fully share your approach. it is high time we put all our efforts into improving eu internal and external coherence. if we want to strengthen the credibility of the union as a global actor we all need to seriously consider the human rights impacts that our policy has beyond our borders, as well as our efforts in the external domain, which must be complementary to the work that vice-president timmermans is doing to ensure compliance of eu policies with the charter of fundamental rights. we need to be consistent on human rights outside and inside our borders i would say inside our borders first of all to have real credibility when we act outside. i would now like to focus on our priorities: when reading parliament's report i recognise many issues which i also would like to prioritise in the new action plan. let me give you a few examples. besides addressing the need to increase the internal-external coherence of our policies, i would first like to announce our support to civil society political, technical and financial support as well as redoubling our efforts to fight its ever shrinking space in so many countries. second, i think that we need to address the massive human rights violations and abuses that take place in conflicts and crises around us. we must improve our capacity to prevent these violations and increase the effectiveness of the international mechanism to tackle impunity. thirdly, promoting human rights is not an abstract exercise. we have concrete tools we can use at european union level, but we must improve their effectiveness. let me say a few words on this. it is my intention that our dialogues on human rights not remain an isolated opportunity for the discussion of human rights issues. in my view they should rather feed into all bilateral contacts with partner countries, and that is also how the work that stavros is doing coordinates very much with the level of commitment i have with all our partners and interlocutors in the world. fourth, i want to step up our promotion of the rights of children, lgbti and women, as well as the freedom of expression, freedom of religion and belief, which would include guidelines increasing awareness of our human rights which would be directed, above all, at eu staff and also at member states' diplomats. i appreciate in this context the efforts you want to make to ensure that your delegations, which have very close contacts with so many countries around the world, also focus more on promoting these values. i think that in this respect we can coordinate our efforts along similar lines. fifth, in the context of promoting the indivisibility and universality of human rights we will continue promoting and defending economic, social, cultural rights not least through our unparalleled in scope development aid. in this context, too, i believe that the european union can become a leader in implementing the un guiding principles on business and human rights as recommended by mr howitt in his parliamentary report on corporate, social responsibility. with regard to religious minorities - a major concern for all of us - i have already started to engage together with our partners to fight against violence committed in the name of religion and take action to address the root causes, - be they social, economic but also political - of radicalisation in our societies and in the middle east but also in other places of the world, like pakistan and afghanistan. but, let me stress also, in our societies and here, again, we have to work more on the internal-external dimension of our policies. i am convinced that promoting freedom of religion, freedom of expression must be a key component of the fight against terrorism and a visible part of it. there can be no security, no stability without human rights and i think we have to remind not only ourselves but also our partners every single day. over the last few months we have condemned in the strongest possible terms the massive abuses of human rights perpetrated by daesh and sow alliances to counter these terrorists. furthermore, the european union and its member states are spearheading the international response to the humanitarian crisis in syria and we are strongly engaged in iraq. the eu humanitarian policy in this year will focus aid on hard-to-reach areas where there are unmet needs and particularly vulnerable groups. in syria, in areas of reduced violence, we are exploring targeted programmes for minorities in order to ensure the safety of all ethnic and religious communities; facilitate an inclusive transition, meet special needs and support the reintegration of vulnerable groups in society. we also support efforts by actors working on the ground to ensure that human rights abuses and violations are being documented for future accountability. i am very grateful for the many and valuable suggestions and recommendations that i found in your report and i count on your support in finding ways of implementing them together. i look forward to our debate for even more suggestions and ideas in this respect.
rapporteur of the committee on women's rights and gender equality requested for an opinion when asked to identify the most pressing issues related to the status of women in the european union, 59% of respondents mentioned violence against women. as the author of the opinion on the report under discussion on behalf of the committee on women's rights, let me therefore draw your attention to what i consider to be the most important aspects of the subject of violence. i believe that it is most important for states to work to build an atmosphere of trust, so that when a woman is a victim of violence, she does not encounter reluctance, neglect and unprofessionalism after the trauma she has experienced. so that no one would even think to start the victim talking about how nothing happened. member states must take great care to train health workers, police officers, prosecutors and judges to provide rapid and professional assistance to victims of violence. the next, even more challenging task for all of us is to change the mindset, especially of the younger generation. but no legislative text alone will bring about this change, it is primarily up to us. many of us come from a country where bruises and slaps are still taboo and considered normal. please continue to show a strong commitment to empowering victims and stand firmly behind them.
madam president, the year 2013 was a challenging year, and in our response to breaches of human rights across the world i reiterate that we must stick to our values and our principles. this means that human rights must be at the core of our relations with third countries. our policy must be visible, coherent and efficient, with particular focus on our accession region and immediate neighbours. we must support democratic development, rule of law and fair, free and competitive elections. these are the key prerequisites for functioning democracies that respect human rights, and we cannot compromise on them. we must insist on them in our enlargement process.
in writing. today's debate is about the eu's human rights situation, including the parliament's human rights situation outside the eu, and about further measures to promote the universal enjoyment of human rights. this parliament's report should focus on cooperation with the eu and third countries and international organisations. the relationship between immigration policy and the protection of human rights should emphasise the importance of international cooperation in addressing this pressing issue. the european union has always been a model in upholding the principles of fundamental human rights, democracy and the rule of law. the eu's accession conditions thus include the requirement of human rights, including minority rights, and the democratic functioning of the state, which encourages the countries wishing to join to bring their legal systems and public institutions into line with international and eu standards. the rights of persons belonging to national minorities are of course part of this report. it cannot be said enough that national minorities have specific needs which are also influenced by the history and economic and social conditions of the state or region in question. national minorities must be guaranteed equal treatment so that they can live as equal members of society while preserving their identity. in the field of the union's minority policy, it would be desirable to balance the requirements which the eu imposes on third or prospective countries and its own member states.
madam president, this agreement is of crucial importance, not only for the future of mali, but also for european security and our counter—terrorism efforts in western africa. it is still unclear whether the preliminary agreement between the central government and the tuareg rebels will translate into a lasting political settlement. a durable peace agreement is absolutely vital and the eu must do its utmost to assist algeria and other international mediators to secure it. france was right, in 2012, to send in the military to drive the islamists out of northern mali. the eu is also doing commendable work through its training mission in the country. let us hope that mali will be a positive example in this regard.
the united nations brings together 193 countries that have pledged to uphold human rights. but human rights are only important if we can comfortably exercise them and if we can choose from them a la carte. the european union must set an example, but can it do so without first cleaning up before our own doorstep? we demand that third countries respect the right to a fair trial, but will we in the european union in slovakia stand by and watch them be abused by the state? hedvig malinova is facing a political trial for intimidation and demonstrating state supremacy over the citizen. eight years ago, a student was beaten up in the street for making a phone call in her native hungarian. instead of the perpetrators, hedvig was charged with perjury. just when it seemed like he was finally going to have some peace, the prosecutor appealed the court's decision, and the state continues to harass the innocent woman.
i'm glad to be a signatory to this resolution, but it's not enough to just re-condemn the terrorists of the so-called islamic state. again, the murders, the kidnappings, the enslavement of christians. it takes action and real help. entire families have been driven from their homes, have lost their homes, are in need of food and medicine. they need at least temporary schools, otherwise the poverty their parents suddenly found themselves in will be passed on to the next generation. assyrian and chaldean christians have for 2,000 years held the same values on which schuman, adenauer and de gasperi based their dream of a united europe. it is for our brothers and sisters who have suffered great misfortune. they believe we'll help them. we realize that we are witnessing a genocide of which we have detailed information. the responsibility for the further fate of the christians in syria and iraq lies first and foremost on our shoulders.
author in every conflict, children suffer the most. since the beginning of this conflict, 400,000 children have been forced to leave school, and as many as 12,000 have been forcibly removed from their school desks and taken directly to the front lines of the conflict. the latest incident, in mid-february, has seen more than 89 children, and according to unicef, there may be hundreds of boys and girls, become unwilling soldiers. many of the children, often as young as 12, die during training, others in the very heat of battle. the ones who grow up will carry this trauma for the rest of their lives. it is appalling that both sides in the conflict are resorting to such practices, and despite many attempts and signed ceasefires, peace seems to be in sight. i therefore welcome the swift action of the un security council, which has decided to adopt sanctions against those south sudanese officials who would impede the end of this conflict.
i want to publicly condemn the land grab in tanzania. this unhealthy phenomenon allows the strong to deprive the weak of a livelihood in the name of luxury. i believe that the future of every nation, but especially of the african continent, is small farmers. the tanzanians are already in a difficult situation because of the corruption and the environment that reigns in their country, and because of the way that many of them are exploited for their illiteracy. if europe wants to contribute to the development of africa, it should be interested in the common people, who will not be lifted out of poverty by a luxury safari, but rather by the possibility of cultivating the land of their ancestors without fear of losing it overnight, and we should contribute, on the contrary, to somehow making the owners themselves understand that they are owners on the basis that they can have proof of this and can claim their rights, their ancestral homeland, their ancestral land. i don't think there's a better way.
the violence against children in cyberspace is not only increasing, it's also gaining in intensity and cruelty, and it's starting to outpace us. in europe, globally, we don't, i think, deal with it well. our smallest and most vulnerable are left defenseless by sophisticated cyberbullying and cybergrouping attacks. it's a responsibility for us adults. i therefore welcome the efforts to bring about closer cooperation between all the stakeholders, the european institutions, the police, public authorities, non-profit organisations, schools, educators, etc. however, the key role of parents, who have the primary responsibility for the upbringing and protection of children, must be emphasised; for this reason, i stress the need to inform and educate them in this area as well. and that's why i voted for this resolution.
i have a slightly different opinion than a colleague. i strongly condemn the murder of opposition politician boris nemtsov, i believe that the case will be investigated, the real culprits will be punished. i would like to express my deepest condolences to the family of the murdered and i also offer my prayers. i voted in favour of the motion because i am concerned by president putin's statements in which he has pledged to personally oversee the investigation. the highest constitutional official, in my opinion, should instead of interfering, create a space for independent investigation. this case, along with other unsolved murders of journalists and opposition politicians in the past, unfortunately does not portray russia in a positive light from the perspective of democracy. the resolution also touches on the inability of russian investigators to close the case of the polish plane crash on russian territory five years ago. it's a little bit of a shock that the plane hasn't been handed over to the poles yet. the constant obstruction of russian authorities to return the black boxes i find truly outrageous.
in writing ‒ the situation in russia is tense due to the ongoing crisis not only in russian-ukrainian relations but also in the eu-russia relationship. the european union was unable to capture the growing tension in the ukraine-russia crisis in its early days, and so we should be cautious but also consistent in our assessment of the situation in russia today. i would like to express my deepest condolences to all the survivors of mr nemtsov and express my confidence that the russian authorities will make every effort to clarify this reprehensible murder as soon as possible, thus removing any doubts about the organization of the murder by politicians.
in writing ‒ as a co-author of the resolution, i think that whoever killed boris nemtsov is a great loss not only for russia. he was preparing the germans for the publication of evidence of the participation of the russian army in the conflict in ukraine. i have no doubt that the putin regime will also use this event for propaganda purposes and further discredit the opposition. this assassination is also a reflection of the critical state of russian society, when an opposition figure can be assassinated in front of the kremlin.
in writing ‒ i condemn not only the cold-blooded killing of nemtsov, but also russia's treatment of those who wanted to honor his memory. i spoke to a ukrainian mp who was jailed and beaten just for planning to attend a funeral. the latvian mep sandre kalniete was denied entry by the russian authorities, making it impossible for her to attend the last parting. the president of the polish senate, bogdan borusewicz, was refused a visa. all travel restrictions were unjustified and gave moscow a clear signal of the direction its relations with the eu would take in the near future.
in writing ‒ if the european union is to play a key role in world politics, it must have an ambitious and effective foreign policy. but we should build it on a common vision of common european interests, values and objectives in external relations and on a common perception of threats affecting the whole of the european union. the dramatically deteriorating security environment near the borders of the european union, for example in the slovak republic's neighbourhood of ukraine, points to an ongoing transformation of the global political order. this is accompanied by an internal crisis, notably the recent terrorist attacks. last but not least, the network of european representations and delegations in the world needs to be strengthened and modernised to reflect the european union's foreign policy needs in the 21st century.
in writing the unstable social, economic and political situation, together with ideological and religious intolerance, particularly in the developing countries of the world, threatens the security not only of the member states of the european union but also of europe as a whole. the fight against terrorism, dealing with the influx of refugees into the european union, arms control, energy security and the need to increase the defence capabilities of member states are just some of the many issues that the european union urgently needs to address in the interests of its security. the protection of european values, democracy, the rule of law, peaceful stability and the interests of the political and legal order throughout the union require the european union to become more actively involved in international problem-solving and to become an important partner with a clear vision and message. all the economic, political and legal conditions must be created for this.
in writing with the new eu commission and high representative for foreign affairs, ms federica mogherini, in place, the eu's foreign policy ambitions are based on a shared vision of key european interests, values and objectives in external relations and a shared perception of threats that affect the eu as a whole. recent terrorist attacks in eu countries have shown that it is increasingly difficult to separate internal security from external security, and therefore member states and eu institutions need to join forces in exchanging security information and in combating terrorism. in the interests of the security of the eu countries, it is essential that we adopt a new, comprehensive migration policy and a humanitarian aid policy for migrants, but also for countries in conflict. the eu and its high representative for foreign affairs must be more flexible in the way they deal with the eu's relations with its eastern partners in the future. countries that have signed accession agreements and want to be eu members in the future need to receive more support from the eu and its high representative for foreign affairs.
in writing ‒ in the context of the juncker initiative on a european army, i am of the opinion that it is not appropriate to build up duplicate armed forces. i can imagine that we will work together in the eu to improve our security by building special security forces. but they have to be compatible nato members.
in writing - i abstained from voting on the report. the report contains things i agree with, such as a strong criticism of russia's annexation of crimea, but it also contains proposals with questionable implications, such as a proposal to create a permanent military staff, and proposals i disagree with, such as a call for increased funding in several areas.
unfortunately, i had to vote against the panzer report. it has emerged from today's vote that some of the issues which are entirely within the competence of the member states have been left out of the report, and i am very sorry to say that this is the case. but i am also very pleased that the report does not mention the slovak referendum, nor the other two. in my view, the european union simply has to accept whatever the outcome of this democratic instrument of the internal policies of the individual member states. in general, the report provides a broad overview of human rights and democracy in 2013, but one particular issue has not received the attention it deserves, and that is subsidiarity. we should make sure that subsidiarity is a priority in future reports.
it is right that the european union has long been promoting a high standard of respect for human rights in the world. if the two world wars have taught us anything, it's that human life and human dignity must be protected at all costs. the report also deals with other important issues, such as freedom of thought, conscience, and religion. i'm even more sorry that the reporter used it to promote abortion as a human right. in doing so, it grossly interfered with the competences of the member states of the european union and, at the same time, called into question the absolute value of human life and dignity. i couldn't support this report.
in writing ‒ human rights and their protection are an important pillar of the european union, its member states and civil society. as one of the world's political players, the european union must have the ambition to be a guarantor of human rights protection beyond its own territory. the human rights situation in third countries has also deteriorated significantly, in particular as a result of the conflicts in syria, israel-palestine and ukraine. military conflicts have a significant impact on the respect for the human rights of civilians. the european union is also a place where increasing numbers of refugees seek refuge, due to the continuing armed conflicts and human rights violations. in some areas of the european union, the situation is critical, and there are frequent drowning deaths of refugees trying to reach the european union's borders. it is therefore our duty not only to raise awareness of human rights violations but also to offer concrete solutions and various forms of assistance.
in writing the 2013 annual report on human rights and democracy in the world is a landmark document that sets out the way forward in the field of human rights on the basis of its findings. it is important to work continuously on an effective system of human rights monitoring throughout the european union. at the same time, a policy of establishing and respecting human rights and democracy by all eu institutions and bodies and by the member states should be promoted internationally.
in writing ‒ the report on human rights and democracy in the world deals with areas where the union and therefore the european parliament have no competence under the founding treaties. this concerns in particular the regulation of abortion and family law, including the recognition or non-recognition of so-called same-sex marriages, which are a matter for the member states. in this respect, i would like to remind this house that no international human rights instrument, nor eu law, recognises the right to terminate a pregnancy as a human right. however, it should be stressed that the eu charter of fundamental rights clearly enshrines 'everyone's right to life' and that this right is one that the eu institutions, including the ep, are obliged not only to respect but also to protect and promote in their recommendations. i therefore find it unacceptable that the ep's owninitiative reports periodically contain language which encourages easy access to contraception and abortion or condemns or criticises member states for exercising their contractual rights in the area of family law. for the reasons i have given, i voted against all the amendments in that spirit.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the report and am very pleased that it recognises the need to review the human rights clauses in the international treaties signed by the european union with third countries, in particular with regard to china and russia. we must make it clear that the success of international relations is threatened by gross violations of human rights, which affect economic, social and political life. it is time that human rights become an integral part of our international relations and treaties and all our political action. let the european union be an example for third countries. but to do that, we have to keep our own front door clean. it is unacceptable that we should be raising the issue of the fundamental human right to a fair trial, for example, with third countries, while in slovakia, an eu member state, the state is pursuing a concept lawsuit against its own citizen in the case of malina hedvig. and he's doing this because he can't face the fact that the student was actually beaten up on the street in 2006 because she spoke in her native language, hungarian. it's time to end the double standard. it's time to face our own demons back home.
i consider the 2013 report on human rights and democracy in the world and the eu's policy on the matter to be very important. even in the 21st century, respect for human rights is not taken for granted in europe and the world. still, nationality, race, gender, or religious affiliation are grounds for violations of human dignity and rights. but poverty and social exclusion, which lower living standards, are also the cause of the failure to implement the universal declaration of human rights. respect for human rights, including economic, cultural, social and environmental rights, access to food, peace, security and access to a fair and effective judiciary, is a fundamental prerequisite for reducing poverty and inequality in individual member states, but also in the world. the eu supports many countries, many development programmes, so financial and development support should also be conditional on respect for fundamental human rights.
written ‒ i abstained from voting on the report because, although it makes many recommendations and findings in the fight against human rights violations, it also goes far beyond its mandate and the human rights field in many other cases. the report also intends to influence areas such as fiscal policy, migration, climate policy, asylum and migration policy, and so on.
in writing ‒ in the context of the report on the observance of human rights and democracy in the world, i was responsible for the preparation of the opinion on women's rights and gender equality. in my opinion, i pointed out that domestic violence is one of the most widespread violations of human rights ever. i stressed that the key to tackling this problem is to train experts (health workers, police officers, prosecutors and judges) to provide adequate help and support to victims of violence. and we also need to work with young people in particular to teach us as a society that bruises and slaps are not something that we can accept as normal. in my opinion, i also point to the need to pay specific attention to women and children in war conflicts and humanitarian crises, underline the need to improve the life chances of roma women and the importance of promoting the principles of inclusive education. since the report also included issues (sexual and reproductive rights) which, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, fall within the competence of the member states, i could not support the report and abstained.
mr president, i have voted for the resolution and i would like to mention two points in my explanation of vote. first, the fight against terrorism in europe or in the middle east cannot be an excuse for the violation of human dignity, even in the case of those responsible for terrorist attacks. western civilisation built on the christian values of love and honour to every human being must reject any practice of unjust trial, torture or tribal retaliation. second, the global fight against terrorism must acknowledge the initiative of local religious minorities, namely christians. they have boldly stood against the atrocities of terrorism, and are willing to protect their ancient communities.
in writing ‒ it is important to strengthen the dialogue between the european union and the league of arab states on political and security issues, also in view of the recent terrorist attacks in paris and copenhagen and the security of all citizens of the european union. it is important that enhanced cooperation in the field of counter-terrorism be firmly based on the rule of law and respect for fundamental rights. however, we must prevent any covert action and prevent the exchange of intelligence that could lead to human rights abuses in a third country or to the use of information obtained through torture outside the european union.
‒ the silver moron is a noble species of fish that is highly sought after by the fishing industry for its significant high value. the international council for the exploration of the sea distinguishes between four species of silver moray and several studies have shown that the decline in the population is worrying. national fisheries management measures are not sufficient to conserve this species and do not address the problem of sharing and access to resources. i therefore support the adoption of european management measures and the establishment of a multiannual management plan to ensure that the silver moray population exceeds the maximum sustainable yield.
mr president, unfortunately i had to vote against the resolution on the 28th session of the unhrc. i agree that there are a lot of good points in this resolution. however, i do not like the unbalanced view on certain issues. for example, israel is blamed for not cooperating in palestine issues, but why did the resolution say nothing on palestinian non—cooperation? that is my question. another issue is the mentioning of sexual reproductive rights. again – and i have often said it – this is a competence of the member states. these issues and some others led me to vote against.
in writing ‒ every day people are killed or their basic and human rights are violated. our duty is to protect people, which is why i welcome the appointment of ambassador joachim rucker as president of the un human rights council for 2015. we also express our strong support for the mandate and efforts of zaid raad al-hussein to be appointed high commissioner for human rights (unhcr). it is our duty to defend the independence of the office of the high commissioner, and thus to ensure that its tasks are carried out in an effective and impartial manner.
in writing. ‒ the united nations was founded 70 years ago and since then has 193 member states, which, on joining, have committed themselves to the protection of human rights, the human dignity of all people, a better life and world peace. now, however, the credit of the organization is beginning to resemble that of the salt bureau, the bureau of unsolvable matters. these are critical times. thousands of people are tortured and killed every day in the world, and human rights seem to be important to us only as long as they can be comfortably fulfilled, as long as we can pick from their list of à la carte systems, like this, like that. it's time we set an example in our situation. to do that, we have to clean up our own front door. enough with the double standards. it is unacceptable, for example, that we should be advocating the fundamental human right to a fair trial in third countries, while in slovakia, a member state of the eu, the state is pursuing a concept lawsuit against its own citizen in the case of malina hedvig. he does this because he can't face the fact that the student was actually beaten up in the street in 2006 because she spoke in her native language, hungarian.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion because i agree with the recommendations of the resolution on the protection of human rights. i am particularly pleased that the proposal talks about the positive relationship between trade and human rights and how trade and human rights can be mutually supportive. greater economic freedom leads not only to greater prosperity but also to greater freedom overall.
i am deeply concerned by the continuing violence and violation of fundamental human rights against opposition figures and students in venezuela, who are absolutely denied the presumption of innocence, as well as the recurrent violence against the opposition. this has resulted in a large number of injuries and even deaths, which is truly unacceptable in a civilized country today. failure to resolve this situation could lead to further violence and destabilisation of the country, which is why i fully support the resolution proposing the creation of a delegation from the european parliament. i believe that this delegation can be an effective instrument for dialogue with the venezuelan government.
in writing ‒ the situation in venezuela has been tense, especially since 19 february 2015, when the mayor of caracas and one of the opposition leaders were detained. the detention of civilians in military prisons is incompatible with international law. in the past, the leaders of the democratic opposition have been repeatedly and unjustifiably accused of involvement in destabilisation and coups d'état. we therefore logically assume that the presumption of innocence has been violated. a democratic state must not criminalize the leaders of the political opposition and must guarantee the participation of all groups in the political life of the country, while protecting the human rights of those who belong to the opposition.
i supported the resolution expressing deep concern at the deteriorating situation in venezuela and condemning the use of violence against demonstrators. it is absolutely unacceptable that during a demonstration against the lack of food and medicine, as was the case on february 24 of this year, a 14-year-old student was shot dead, becoming the first victim since the authorization of the use of firearms to suppress protests. the venezuelan government is politically persecuting and repressing the democratic opposition, violating their freedom of expression and suppressing their right to demonstrate. the government does not respect its constitutional and international obligations regarding the independence of the judiciary, the rights to freedom of expression, association and peaceful assembly, and political pluralism. the venezuelan authorities should use the upcoming parliamentary elections to create an inclusive process based on consensus and shared responsibility, through a genuine national dialogue involving all democratic political forces.
in writing ‒ the situation in venezuela is becoming more critical with each passing day and with each new imprisonment, political process or anti-democratic move. human rights are at stake in the country. it is also the eu's duty to monitor these parts of the world, because their developments affect us. the deficit of democracy and the rule of law can create dangerous outbreaks of tension that can spread.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in 1970 one german mark cost nine drachmas. thirty years later, in 2000, one deutsche mark was worth 170 drachmas. this exchange rate development reflects the development of competitiveness. if the eurozone did not exist, one deutsche mark would cost 250 drachmas today. but no, the creators of the eurozone have said that the ratio is fixed for all eternity: one german mark costs 176 drachmas! that is why the euro is too cheap for germany and too expensive for greece. and that's why greece has no chance of surviving in the eurozone. i therefore support mr lucke's motion. what we need is a system for exiting the eurozone.
it is a pity that mr juncker has left, i wanted to ask him how we are doing, how the commission is doing in the fight against tax evasion and tax havens. but i will ask two things, or i will speak about two things that are important from this last council meeting: and that is the discussion on the energy union and how we will proceed further on ukraine. i think the energy union is one of the best projects that awaits us. it will be important for us to be able to ensure, for the commission to be able to ensure and for the council to be able to confirm that the costs that will result from such a project for the beneficiaries, for people who are often really in a very difficult life situation, will be acceptable and affordable. so that it's not a project that will benefit big companies, energy companies, but that it's a project that will benefit citizens. and very shortly to ukraine. mr tusk, the situation in ukraine is really very bad, there were again big demonstrations in kiev today. this time, he's demonstrating against the government. it would be really appropriate if we created a larger space for ukraine and if we did not limit ourselves to just some loans or just the loans that we are going to give to ukraine now, but to assess the whole situation better from the political point of view as well.
in writing. the european council dealt with very important subjects. the most important was the energy union strategy presented by commission vice-president maroš šefčovič, which will play a major role in europe's future. diversification of energy sources, emission reductions, energy efficiency, new technologies and energy and climate innovation will bring economic growth and savings for large and small energy consumers. the european council also addressed an issue that both europeans and the media are concerned about every day. it's the war in ukraine. i am therefore very pleased that the european council has called on all parties to this conflict to swiftly and fully implement the minsk agreements and to fulfil their commitments. monitoring and verifying the implementation of the minsk agreements must be part of the eu agenda in order to respond appropriately to the continuation, strengthening or lifting of restrictive measures against the russian federation.
in writing. the highlight of the last european council was the progress made towards building the energy union. proposals for the functioning of the energy union are still at a very early stage and their possible harmfulness will depend in particular on the concrete application of these proposals. in particular, i welcome the removal of the various administrative barriers between countries in the context of building the energy union. but a strong emphasis on 'energy efficiency', which in practice leads to the adoption of absurd regulations, or a strong emphasis on the absurd rigidity of climate targets, will hardly be beneficial for the eu economy.
tax policy has long been a familiar subject in the european union. it has always been postponed and always been postponed because of some fear and concern about tax harmonization. it's been ringing off the hook a few times today. but it must be said frankly that tax harmonization should be the icing on the cake and at this point it should be preceded by very strong and clear measures to prevent tax evasion, but also to prevent companies within the european union from always being able to look for the country with the preferential rate for their business activities. an example of this is health insurance in slovakia. the law requires every citizen of the slovak republic to pay for health insurance, and some companies are domiciled in other member states of the european union, where the rate is much more favorable for providing this service. that is why tax policy is very important, because it protects our employees and it protects people in the member states.
ukraine has been in a very bad economic situation for a long time and the conflict has made this problem worse. the european parliament therefore supported the provision of macro-financial assistance to ukraine, on the condition that it be continuously monitored to ensure that the funds are used to reduce poverty among the population. at the same time, the authorities of our neighbouring country must urgently take measures to combat widespread corruption and fraud and to improve tax discipline. this isn't the first aid we've received, and it's certainly not the last. when we approved macro-financial assistance to ukraine in 2010, the resolution included a condition for the thorough implementation of the necessary structural reforms or measures to be taken by ukraine in the area of preventing and combating fraud and corruption. today is 2015, and we are asking ukraine to do the same again. so the question is: will we be able to control the flow of this aid to the benefit of the suffering people of ukraine, and not to their oligarchs? commissioner, please answer.
in writing. it is undeniable that the ukrainian economy is in need of assistance as it is severely affected by long-term structural problems resulting from the armed conflict. as ukraine has lost access to international debt financing markets, only additional macro-financial assistance from the european union can fill the external financing gap, as ukraine will need capital to implement all reforms and stabilise the domestic political situation. on the one hand, i must therefore welcome the european union's commitment and readiness to support countries embarking on a path of reform in a time of economic and political difficulties, but on the other hand it is very important that we are able to monitor how the funds provided are used, especially in ukraine, which has a fundamental problem of corruption and clientelism. so if the european union has embarked on a path of full support for ukraine, we must show that we are willing and ready to help and that we can act quickly, responsibly and stand by our political and economic commitments. however, it is very important that european solidarity is not just blind but supported by real results and actions, because the economic and financial situation in our member states is also not very satisfactory and many citizens rightly feel that the european union should first solve urgent economic problems within itself and only then help outwards.
for the ecr group. the minimum wage is economic nonsense in itself because it affects the most vulnerable, those whose skills are valued below the minimum wage. these employees are effectively prohibited from working. it is clearer than the sun that the minimum wage increases unemployment, especially if it is set as high as the german one. germany has probably forgotten that 10 years ago it was the sick man of europe, but if germany decides to harm its economy, that is its problem and its business. but germany is abusing the minimum wage to improperly close its market: this is contrary to the single free market. the minimum wage law is discriminatory in that it unfairly burdens only foreign hauliers with excessive administration, not domestic hauliers who do not have these obligations. in addition, the allowances must not be part of the minimum wage, which means that in the end the foreign carrier has to pay more than the german one - this is another discrimination. this is wrong, especially from a country that has strong exports because it benefits from a weak euro at the expense of economically weaker countries. i therefore ask the european commission to act decisively in this case and to force germany to limit its minimum wage to only employment relationships subject to german law. this means that for hauliers, the minimum wage applies to the haulage, but not to transport, export or import.
in writing. the german minimum wage law is problematic and has therefore sparked a passionate debate at european level. it is directly related to the principle of the free movement of services and restores national protectionism. it severely restricts slovak freight forwarding companies. the situation is serious and i consider it to be contrary to the principle of free markets and the free movement of goods within the eu. this principle is part of the eu's fundamental freedoms. that is why i support the idea of abolishing the law in road transport in germany.
in writing. the institution of a minimum wage in each state is a measure that social democrats can only support. on the other hand, it is inadmissible that this interferes with the laws of other countries which regulate the level of the minimum wage. on the one hand, it is understandable that germany should require sufficient financial security for persons employees moving within its territory. on the other hand, germany thus interferes with the laws of other countries, which has further effects, for example on the complexity of payroll accounting (recording of work journeys, tracking of border crossing times). this complicates labour relations (and thus wage claims) between employees and employers based in another country. germany's move is discriminatory, especially in relation to the new member states, and creates a situation of unequal treatment where operators from these states are unable to cover the costs of the measure and can therefore be forced out of the german market. in any case, the situation requires a comprehensive solution. the commission must therefore continue to act to ensure that the european treaties are not violated.
in writing. the german minimum wage law is contrary to the principle of the single market. it also infringes the eu principle of the free movement of services. this is a disadvantage for businesses in 16 eu member states and, if allowed to remain so, could create a domino effect, effectively destroying the single market. today, a german truck driver earns 8.5 euros an hour. a slovakian gets 2.5 euros for the same work. it would be nice if slovak workers were also paid german wages, although we would be there, but if we think a little realistically, we can see that the real purpose of the german provision is to help german workers. slovak entrepreneurs will simply lose their competitiveness under such conditions, and this means, in black and white, job insecurity. the european commission, as the guardian of eu law, has a duty to ensure that member states' laws do not conflict with the eu acquis. i trust the outgoing hoof will get caught in the commission's fiber.
in writing. the german legislation is a precedent in that it introduces a wage for employees from other countries. it is essential to uphold the principles of free movement in our common european market and not to create barriers between the east and the west of the eu. i call on the european commission to act immediately in this case.
first of all, i want to say that i come from slovakia, specifically from the city of košice, which is known as the center of the roma minority, the famous luník 9 probably everyone knows. despite the negative reports that are often published in an unbiased manner, i would also like to point to positive examples that show that cooperation with the roma community is gradually improving at all levels. the romathan theatre is the only one of its kind in slovakia, a private elementary school and gymnasium focusing on teaching the romani language and romani realities. the 'take it on your own' project, which aims to introduce young roma, has recently proved very successful in many schools. last year i had the honour of inviting roma community workers and roma journalists to visit the european parliament in strasbourg, and they subsequently made a documentary about the european parliament and about the work of us, the european parliamentarians, which they then presented to the roma communities, for which i would like to thank them very much, and i think this is also a way of breaking down barriers.
i'd like to talk about humanity. the word "roma" means "man". humanity means understanding that every human life has equal, that is, absolute value and dignity. recognizing the genocide of the roma is an act of reawakening, of rediscovering humanity where our fathers and grandfathers lost it. we are their descendants and heirs, and it is incumbent upon us to ask forgiveness on their behalf. humanity is closeness, it's the ability to touch, to feel, to hold hands, to embrace. if today, 70 years after the end of the second world war, we are again concerned by the rise of anti-gypsyism in europe, it means that we still lack humanity. let us ask the roma for forgiveness for the evil we have inherited and find with them the path to humanity.
economic pressures and the unilateral policy of equal representation of women and men in the european union's labour market are leading many women to postpone pregnancy until after the age of 30. however, the greater the mother's age, the greater the likelihood of down syndrome. these women and their unborn children deserve more from society than just prenatal diagnosis and, if positive, a free abortion. on saturday, march 21, we commemorated the world day of the down syndrome. funding of research on this genetic disorder should be one of the priorities of horizon 2020. thus, people born with this disorder could have access to treatment that would allow them to live fully independent and productive lives.
in writing. ‒ the the economic and financial crisis has also affected the labour market in greece to a considerable extent. the globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide necessary and indispensable support to workers affected by major structural changes in the world trade sector. on 3 february 2015, the european commission adopted a proposal to mobilise the fund for greece. eur 5 046 000 from the european globalisation adjustment fund is to be used for the reintegration of 928 staff. the greek economy has been in deep recession for six consecutive years. this appropriation is intended to cover the cost of the purchase, hire or leasing of equipment and installations, including the purchase, hire or leasing of furniture, appliances and equipment, and the purchase of furniture, furniture and appliances, as well as the purchase, hire or leasing of furniture, appliances and equipment, and the purchase of furniture, appliances and equipment, including the purchase, hire or leasing of furniture, appliances and equipment, and the purchase of furniture, appliances and equipment.
in writing. ‒ the under the approved rules of the european globalisation adjustment fund, the application fulfils the conditions for the award of aid in the form of a financial contribution. greece has been in a deep recession since 2008. the region receiving the aid has the highest unemployment rate compared to other regions in greece. the commission also found that the union industry had suffered material injury during the period considered. the aid granted is linked to the adoption of active labour market measures and the reintegration of redundant workers into the labour market.
in writing. the attica region in greece has one of the highest unemployment rates. therefore, the greek government requested a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund for 928 workers in 16 enterprises who worked in the production and broadcasting sector and were made redundant as a result of the closure of the enterprises. the coordinated package of personalised services, to be co-financed by the european globalisation adjustment fund at 60%, includes vocational guidance, education, retraining and training, grants for self-employment, a job-seeking allowance, a training allowance and a travel allowance for work. the greek authorities must respect the principles of equal treatment and non-discrimination when drawing on these funds and the funds must be used to support individual employees and not to restructure companies or sectors. i supported greece's request.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the proposal because, as i have long said, redirecting money to help 'the victims of globalisation' ultimately exacerbates the very problems that need to be addressed. if the european union wants to ensure that workers do not suffer as a result of 'globalization', it should itself review its policies that reduce the competitiveness of eu companies, in particular its unreasonably strict climate targets.
in writing. ‒ the the economic and financial crisis has also affected the labour market in greece to a considerable extent. the globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide necessary and indispensable support to workers affected by major structural changes in the world trade sector. on 3 february 2015, the european commission adopted a proposal to mobilise the fund for greece. eur 3 746 700 from the european globalisation adjustment fund is to be used for the reintegration of 705 staff. the greek economy has been in deep recession for six consecutive years. this appropriation is intended to cover the cost of the purchase, hire or leasing of equipment and installations, including the purchase, hire or leasing of furniture, appliances and equipment, and the purchase of furniture, furniture and appliances, as well as the purchase, hire or leasing of furniture, appliances and equipment, and the purchase of furniture, appliances and equipment, including the purchase, hire or leasing of furniture, appliances and equipment, and the purchase of furniture, appliances and equipment.
in writing. ‒ the aid in the form of a financial contribution is intended to support 705 redundant employees in the publishing sector. it is important that the beneficiary, when using the egf, uses the funds provided as a priority to support permanent jobs that will help greece to recover from the economic recession. it is also important that the audit and control bodies continuously check that the conditions of the aid granted are fulfilled and that it is actually used.
in writing. i supported the greek government's request for a contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund. in the region of attica, the closure of businesses in the newspaper and magazine publishing sector was due to a reduction in the availability of household income due to an increase in the tax burden, a reduction in wages and an increase in unemployment, resulting in a sharp decline in purchasing power. the allowance of eur 3 746 700 is granted to 705 workers, who will receive an allowance for setting up their own business, a labour mobility allowance, vocational guidance, vocational education and training. the proposed measures will only be granted to workers and will not be used to restructure companies or sectors.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this proposal because i don't think it's beneficial. the logic presented in the text of the proposal is also interesting. the redundancies in the publishing sector are allegedly linked to the financial and economic crisis, mainly due to the lower disposable income of households and the consequent change in priorities in household expenditure. however, by a similar reasoning, the european union could justify compensation for virtually any redundancy. however, as in other cases, this is only subsidies at the expense of others, which only exacerbates the problems mentioned.
in writing. ‒ the economic and financial crisis has also affected the labour market in ireland to a considerable extent, resulting in the closure of lufthansa technik and the relocation of aircraft production worldwide. the globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide necessary and indispensable support to workers affected by major structural changes in the world trade sector. on 6 february 2015, the european commission adopted a proposal to mobilise the fund for ireland. eur 2 490 758 from the european globalisation adjustment fund is to be used for the reintegration of 149 staff. the european union has significantly changed the way goods and services are traded in this sector due to the technological transition to the production of next-generation aircraft and components. this appropriation is intended to cover the cost of the purchase, hire or leasing of equipment and installations, including the purchase, hire or leasing of furniture, appliances and equipment, and the purchase of furniture, furniture and appliances, as well as the purchase, hire or leasing of furniture, appliances and equipment, and the purchase of furniture, appliances and equipment, including the purchase, hire or leasing of furniture, appliances and equipment, and the purchase of furniture, appliances and equipment.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is primarily intended to support and assist where large numbers of staff, at least 500, have been made redundant during the reference period as a result of major structural changes caused by globalisation and the global financial and economic crisis. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the aid granted to the company was granted in breach of the state aid rules. the serious fact is that there are also 200 young people under the age of 25 who do not have sufficient education. the aid will enable them to find a place on the labour market sooner.
in writing. i supported the motion for a resolution to grant ireland a contribution of eur 2 490 758 from the european globalisation adjustment fund. this contribution is granted following a request by the irish government following the dismissal of 424 employees of lufthansa technik. the dismissal of these workers has a significant negative impact on the southern and eastern regions of ireland. this aid will be used to co-finance active labour market measures leading to stable and long-term employment, subject to compliance with the principles of equal treatment and non-discrimination. the redundant workers shall be provided with professional advice and assistance in planning their career progression, and shall be encouraged to become self-employed and to re-qualify.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund offers funding to those who lose their jobs in the face of mass redundancies as a result of globalisation trends. the funds are intended for retraining or as start-up aid. it is important that these funds are used for the purpose that this aid really goes to those who need it most.
in writing. ‒ the i disagree with the motion. the main reason for granting this contribution is, once again, to be 'the major structural changes in the world trade patterns caused by globalisation'. of course, the existence of these changes cannot be denied. but the negative impact of these changes on employment in the eu is also largely the result of many harmful eu policies and, paradoxically, of redistribution in this and many other eu programmes.
in writing. ‒ the ukrainian economy needs assistance as it is severely affected by long-term structural problems due to the armed conflict, which has led to a deep economic recession and significantly higher capital flight than originally anticipated. as ukraine has lost access to international debt financing markets, only additional macro-financial assistance from the european union can fill the external financing gap, as ukraine will need capital to implement all reforms and stabilise the domestic political situation. on the one hand, the european union's commitment and readiness to support countries embarking on a path of reform in a time of economic and political difficulties is welcome, but on the other hand it is very important that the european union is able to adequately monitor how the funds provided are used, especially in ukraine, which has a fundamental problem of corruption and clientelism. if the european union is to take the path of fully supporting ukraine, it must show that it is willing and ready to help and that it can act quickly, responsibly and stand by its political and economic commitments.
in writing. ‒ the the european union has made a long-term commitment to assist ukraine in its reform process. the objective of the macro-financial assistance, which is complementary to the assistance of the international monetary fund, is to contribute to the economic and political stabilisation of ukraine, an important partner of the european union. the funds may not be used for military purposes. the loan is essential to avert the collapse of ukraine. the conditions are the fulfilment of commitments in the areas of anti-corruption measures, the rule of law, tax evasion, the recovery of the financial sector...
in writing. ‒ ukraine currently has no access to international capital markets. and in the pre-conflict period, russia was the main economic partner. understandably, that relationship has now deteriorated. the economy has collapsed, people are living on a few dozen euros at western prices. we must recognize that a humanitarian catastrophe is looming in ukraine. this is a situation where the neighbour, the partner, should not measure whether to help or not to help, which is why i am totally in favour of providing €1.8 billion in macro-level assistance to ukraine. this is not just about economic indicators, but about the future of a society. the ukrainian people have already expressed their preference for european democratic values over oligarchic arrangements. we must therefore help our neighbour's government to make its reforms truly european. hunger and poverty are not good catalysts, and they are often the trigger for inter-ethnic conflict. i therefore ask the commission to pay greater attention to the situation of minorities and to draw up an action plan to resolve inter-ethnic tensions.
in writing. i supported macro-financial assistance to ukraine because the situation in ukraine is alarming. people are starving, freezing, lacking the medical care they need... and hopes of a speedy recovery from their plight are in doubt. so i want to believe that the macro-financial assistance provided will be for the people, and not for the oligarchs who still influence political power and who get rich off the poverty of the common people. today, the people of ukraine are once again taking to the streets to express their discontent and alert the government to their plight. ukraine today needs not only financial assistance but also help in fighting corruption and fraud and in implementing the necessary structural reforms.
in writing. ‒ ukraine is our neighbour, which is in a difficult situation, both economically and in terms of security. the country needs structural changes, improved public administration, the elimination of corruption, or a stronger business environment. i support the commission's proposal and my colleagues in parliament's vote for this exceptional mechanism as a signal of support for the new government in its reform efforts.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the proposal because i do not think that the european union should provide further assistance to ukraine. ukraine does not need more foreign money ukraine needs to undertake fundamental reforms in order to increase competitiveness, especially in the area of fighting corruption. providing this aid is not only unwise on the eu's part, but may even distance ukraine from solving these problems. greece, for example, is a good example of this principle.
in writing. ‒ the to deepen economic and monetary union and boost growth, a unified approach to tax policy will be needed in the future and a tax system designed to take account of the characteristics of individual member states will be needed. those tax policy measures should lead in particular to a reduction of the administrative burden on businesses and tax authorities, but also to the progressive elimination of obstacles and inconsistencies between national legislation. immediate, coordinated and comprehensive action at european union level is needed if tax evasion and tax fraud, tax avoidance, aggressive tax planning and, of course, tax havens are to be effectively tackled.
in writing. ‒ the tax fraud and evasion cause billions of dollars in damage to the budgets of the member states, and to the european union itself. they seriously damage public finances and investment, with negative effects on supporting economic growth and job creation and, ultimately, on under-growth of the european union's competitiveness. despite the number of directives, measures and agreements adopted, these have proved to be either inadequate or ineffective. the commission and the member states must therefore urgently innovate existing measures to eliminate the current unfavourable tax situation and prevent misuse of funds in the european union. it is necessary to adopt clear and strict rules for cooperation with countries with the status of tax havens and to introduce transparent rules for the participation of companies established in tax havens in public procurement. the simplification of the rules of tax systems, which will allow for better and more effective control of tax collection, should be strongly promoted. clear and unambiguous rules should be adopted, the infringement of which will be severely sanctioned. the commission and the member states must act together and in a uniform manner in the fight against fraud and tax evasion.
in writing. - i welcome the report. i think that good agreements have been reached on the exchange of information and the fight against money laundering. i would like to raise two further questions on this subject. one is the practice in member states of secret tax treaties with international companies; the other is the flight abroad of european companies for tax avoidance. in recent months, several member states have also been found to have tried to win over multinational companies by offering them special preferential treatment, including tax reductions. the fact that there is competition between member states for the favours of international companies is a fact. however, in a solidarity between states such as the eu, it is unacceptable to maintain such practices. and it's unfair to other entrepreneurs who expect predictability and sustainability from clear tax rules. i believe that a coordinated eu strategy is needed to tackle this problem and i look forward to the european commission's action plan on this issue. it is also a key issue to look closely at so-called offshore companies, which are hotbeds of tax evasion and corruption. they are destroying the entrepreneurial environment, and it is true that this raises questions about the political credibility of many countries.
in writing. i am in favour of tax policy being and remaining a national competence and therefore the need for the eu to respect the diversity of tax systems in the member states. what i cannot agree with is that we continue to see tax evasion, tax fraud, the creation of new tax havens and tax avoidance. i voted in favour of the report because it contains many elements which can be an effective tool in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion and which, in the long term, can create the conditions for new jobs and sustainable growth. these measures are particularly important at a time when public debt is still high and investment is increasingly needed in the eu. i think that eu citizens rightly expect us to put an end to unfair tax practices and to impose corresponding sanctions on those who break them. i believe that the measures taken will enable us to strengthen the harmonisation of tax policies, to eliminate the disparities between national rules, which could lead to a strengthening of cross-border trade, a strengthening of the single market, growth and employment.
in writing. ‒ i appreciate the commission's commitment to actively combat tax evasion and avoidance. it is important that the eu institutions, as well as society, demand more effective measures to increase tax transparency and ensure fairer tax competition within the eu's single market.
in writing. - i did not support the motion. i agree with some of its parts in particular, it is about highlighting the positive impact of favourable tax initiatives on business and investment, minimising tax policy barriers for smes and so on. however, i strongly disagree with some other parts of the proposal, such as the call for progress on the common consolidated tax base, which is a step towards tax harmonisation, or the direct call for increased tax policy harmonisation between eu countries. the proposal also calls for a financial transaction tax, and even proposes that the revenue from this tax be included in the eu budget.
written if we do not want to lose €21 billion, a revision of the mff is essential. all eu countries, including slovakia, would lose this money. in a period of chronic underinvestment, this would seriously damage employment and growth across the eu. this revision is technical in nature and i see no problem with its approval. but we must also work on a political review of the whole system of financing the european union budget. this means that we must ensure new financing for the eu budget, independent of the current economic or political situation in the individual member states, and that the european union no longer fails to pay its bills to municipalities, cities, businesses, hospitals, etc. i am glad that the european parliament has taken the initiative to start this process. i believe that by the end of next year, when the slovak presidency of the eu will be at its peak, we will be able to move our efforts to create new own resources into the final phase.
in writing. i find it very unfortunate and sad that even a hundred years after the tragic events in the ottoman empire, the relevant states cannot agree on whether it was genocide or not. this genocide resulted in the extermination of the armenian community that lived in the southeastern part of the ottoman empire, which is today turkey. after the defeat of the ottoman empire in world war i, the new republic of turkey denied this historical fact. the current turkish government's efforts to improve relations with the existing armenian community should therefore be commended. both countries must continue to normalize relations and promote cultural and educational exchanges to enhance mutual understanding and improve relations that have been damaged by historical events. i believe it is very important to remember the violent acts of the past, because today europe is once again experiencing a radicalisation of the situation and violent acts that must not grow into the monstrous dimensions of the past.
in writing. the 100th anniversary of the armenian genocide raises the issue of the treatment of minorities, which is a subject of debate not only in the past but also in the present. in 1914-1915, the goal of the turkish majority and the armenian minority to solve their problems by peaceful means and to live together in cooperation was not achieved. just as hostility, whether through genocide or other violent means, was not the solution in the past, so it is not today. not only is the use of deterrent sanctions against minorities not a solution, but it will only deepen conflicts and discord. turkey and armenia are still suffering from the heinous crimes committed. facing the past is crucial to resolving conflict and reconciliation. it is the only way forward, it is in the long-term interest of both sides, which can start cooperation, progress both politically and economically. the european union, alongside the leaders of individual countries, in this case turkey and armenia, can play an important mediating role in the settlement of the armenian conflict, as the union must stand up for economic interests as well as for the safeguarding of democratic rights. finding the right solutions would have a major impact not only on the domestic political situation of the country concerned, but also on its foreign policy and the development of the union.
vice-president of the commission.– madam president, thank you for bringing this topic for discussion here in this chamber. for the commission, the whole question of having a diverse staff, of being inclusive, has a very high priority, and i can confirm that in my first meetings with mr juncker that was a topic he brought up, specifically in regard to people with disabilities. we are very keen to address this at three levels: at the level of recruitment, at the level of inclusion in the staff of the institutions, and also in terms of the support that is being provided, as needs might change. we have a general principle of non-discrimination on various grounds in our staff regulations, amongst them disabilities, and our commitment to everybody, to each and every one of our staff, is that of fair treatment and equal opportunities. so let me stress, as we are having this discussion, that it comes at a very opportune moment for us because we are working on a new diversity strategy for the period 2015-2019, and in this sense input from the members of this parliament would be very useful. let me first start with the recruitment phase. we take very seriously our ability to provide conditions for each and every person in europe who wants to apply for a job in the european union institutions to be able to do so. we have in our team dealing with recruitment, in epso, two experts specifically for the issue of disabilities. in their work they are able to inform candidates and then respond to requests for special accommodation for testing; for example, tests in braille, on paper, with extra time. to be assessed in special facilities we have three rooms that are specifically for people with physical disabilities and, where this is appropriate, an individual person would be assigned to assist the candidate in the application. each file is then processed individually to ensure the best possible match between the needs of the candidate and the principles of both proportionality and equal treatment. secondly, in terms of being able to accommodate people with disabilities in commission buildings, we have accessibility in all our buildings and they comply with the recommendations on accessibility by people with physical disabilities that are applicable in the region of brussels. i would also say that we are looking at whether we can strive towards adopting best practices from elsewhere, at what is being done in other places. thirdly, in human resources there is a platform to provide advice and support – for example, for the need to have ergonomically better conditions for work. we are not able to provide a full file on people with disabilities because of respect for confidentiality in medical records, but that does not mean that we are not making every effort possible to be aware of whom they are and where they are. i can tell you that we use the staff survey. we used it this year and last year to give people a chance to identify themselves through the staff survey, and on that basis we know that 5.7 % this year, 2014, have identified themselves as people with disabilities. this is one percentage more than in last year’s survey. this does not mean a one-to-one match, but it gives us an indication that our efforts to recruit more people with disabilities seem to be bearing fruit. parliament asks whether it would not be more appropriate to apply quotas. our current staff regulations do not allow for quotas, but they do encourage us to use other ways to enhance diversity and i can say on my own behalf, and on behalf of my team, that we are looking for ways in which we can do more so that those of us in the commission, in parliament, in the council, those who work in the institutions can be a mirror image of what europe is, who we europeans are. we are not there yet, so we have work to do, and i look forward to the debate this evening to give us input in that direction.
for the ecr group breaking down barriers is extremely important, and i always welcome the fact that the issue of the employment of people with disabilities is not only talked about but also acted upon. the european union, as a signatory to the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, and its institutions should clearly set an example for the member states, and it is a good idea to clean up, so to speak, at one's own doorstep. i understand that quotas can be an attractive solution, but i think it's much more important to create conditions that are responsive to the needs of people with disabilities. we should strive to make accessibility a natural and automatic process, one that the european institutions do not forget when building buildings, marking rooms, providing interpreters, creating their materials and websites or providing other support services. these are all areas in which the european parliament itself is still, unfortunately, too lacking. for any of us can become disabled from day to day. he'll lose his sight, he'll lose his hearing, he'll end up in a wheelchair, or he'll end up with a chronic disease, and so thinking in the spirit of universal design and barrier-free thinking should be taken for granted, even without quotas.
i, my colleagues, have a very different view: no quotas. what do you want to pick them on, the disabled people? different disabled people have different requirements for aids for a particular job. for example, blind, deaf, mute, handicapped people will need increased adaptation costs for specific jobs. i would suggest something else. better to create a program to support sheltered workshops, production cooperatives, better to support and facilitate employers for such projects and more to control the functioning of those projects so that the money is not misused. i know from slovakia that they were abused like this. plus, we'll create a public awareness and education program to help integrate them and facilitate the use of their employment, talents and skills. you see, i had a disabled son, and he had a good education in what is called family school, so i say that the european institutions should be encouraged to create quality, specialised fields of study for their personal growth, to find good jobs, to start with the youth, education and in a few years they will be well employed. those who do well will be skilled. so, mrs. kozłowska said we need the pressure of quotas to set an example that we're doing this. you mean it? push employers to make it harder for them? and if there are no disabled people, how do we then look for them in our committees and how do we employ them? i think we need to change our approach.
in writing a society that respects the dignity of every person as an absolute value should not be satisfied with the short-cut solution of quotas when promoting the inclusion of people with disabilities. they have only a short-term effect, and at the same time they call into question the fundamental principle of social inclusion, because they divide society. so let us stop talking about quotas and focus on measures that will have a long-term effect. inclusion must start in the school age so that all children, without distinction, have an equal opportunity to start developing their talents and skills which they can later apply in their job search. and instead of quotas, a transparent methodology and decision-making, complemented by a binding non-discriminatory job definition, is needed for the selection of staff. people with disabilities do not need a quota barrier, but a long-term solution that does not compromise their competence, hard work and commitment.
the essence of our common european market is the free movement of people and goods across the member states of the european union. not all countries have been fortunate in the past to have economic progress that allows them to pay wages at the level of germany, for example. small hauliers from slovakia, but also from other neighbouring countries, have successfully established themselves on european markets over the last ten years. in doing so, they increase employment in their countries and contribute to the growth of the european union as a whole. so let's not take away their earnings, let's not raise costs, let's not create unnecessary barriers. let's not build another iron curtain between east and west, this time commercial. the german legislation is a precedent in that it introduces a wage for employees from other countries. i am a strong supporter of the principle of free movement in our common european market, and that is why i am calling on the european commission to act in this case and to stop the german restrictions which are hurting citizens.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to help european workers better cope with the impact of the economic and financial crisis on world trade. in february 2015, the european commission adopted a proposal to mobilise the egf in favour of france, namely for the benefit of 2 513 mory-ducros workers for a total amount of eur 6 052 200. these employees were dismissed as a result of the bankruptcy and subsequent closure of the company, as the volume of road freight transport decreased by 35% in the european union and by 21% in france between 2007 and 2013.
in writing ‒ the global economic and financial crisis also had a significant impact on the french company mory-ducros, which operated in the field of land transport. the decrease in transport volume is closely linked to the reduction in material production and the price war between carriers, which also led to an increased number of bankruptcies of transport companies. the dismissal of 2 804 employees of this company has a major impact on employment in this sector. the application submitted meets the requirements for a contribution from the egf. it aims to speed up the adoption of measures to enable redundant workers to re-enter the labour market and thus prevent their long-term unemployment.
‒ i support the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in this case as well. it is time for the egf to be activated also for mass redundancies in slovak companies and for the slovak government to respond to my repeated calls.
in writing - i did not support the proposal. first of all, it is interesting that the 'victim of globalisation' in this case is a road transport company. in looking for all the damage that globalization has done, money-seekers are obviously quite creative. regardless, this contribution, like others of its kind, is harmful. as it is paid for by taxes on employees and companies, less real jobs are created and competitiveness is reduced. that only magnifies the problem that this money was supposed to solve.
‒ articles 150 and 160 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union provide that the european parliament must be involved in any changes to the social protection committee concerned. in this case, it is more of a technical consultation, which concerns in particular the possible extension of the term of office of the chairman of the committee, since the term of office of the chairman can currently be extended once for a period of two years. this step promises the stakeholders greater continuity in the work of the social protection committee. the council also proposed two other amendments, which should, firstly, help the social protection committee to focus not only on sustainable healthcare but also on its accessibility to all social strata, and secondly, better coordination of socioeconomic policies is also needed.
in writing ‒ i voted in favour of the amended proposal from the council to set up a social protection committee. this committee, with an advisory status, will promote cooperation on social protection policies between the eu member states and the european commission. at the same time, it will also promote the exchange of information, experience and good practices in the member states.
in writing ‒ i voted against the decision because i do not think it will help the economy or employment or the quality of jobs. fortunately, the new committee is only to have an advisory status, and is therefore mainly to monitor the situation in the member states, prepare various reports and so on. but it will still contribute to the further senseless growth of the european union bureaucracy, at the expense of the workers and employers themselves.
‒ articles 150 and 160 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union provide that the european parliament must be involved in any changes to the employment committee in question. in this case, it is more of a technical consultation, which concerns in particular the possible extension of the term of office of the chairman of the committee, since the term of office of the chairman can currently be extended once for a period of two years. this step promises stakeholders greater continuity in the work of the employment committee.
in writing ‒ i voted in favour of the council's proposal to set up an employment committee. this committee will monitor the employment situation in the member states and the eu. it will support the objective of a high level of employment in the formulation and implementation of eu policies and activities.
in writing ‒ i support the establishment of this committee and believe that we will discuss pragmatically the impact of the legislative acts adopted on employment. we must always bear in mind the impact on job creation in particular, and therefore reduce the administrative burden and simplify the overall environment.
in writing ‒ i did not support the motion because i do not agree with the establishment of this committee, just as i do not agree with the establishment of the social protection committee. the best employment policy is to interfere as little as possible in the employment relationship between the employee and the employer. this includes all kinds of interventions, from excessive bureaucracy to excessive taxation. the creation of new bodies, even for the purpose of increasing employment, is thus directly contrary to these objectives.
in writing ‒ the european commission's forecasts were too optimistic and by the end of 2014, only a very small percentage of the 2014-2020 cohesion policy programmes had been adopted and the adoption of the remaining programmes had been delayed. programmes thus carried over shall not lose budgetary resources unless the mff is revised and carried over to the following year. it is very important that a compromise is reached between the various institutions of the european union, as this is essential to complete the process of starting a new cohesion policy programming period. the european union must use its resources efficiently and in a timely manner and, through its investment policy, create the conditions for a return to growth and jobs.
in writing ‒ i voted for this recommendation. as the adoption of the operational programmes for the period 2014-20 was delayed, slovakia was unable to use the part of the funds for these programmes for 2014 to which we are entitled. it was therefore necessary to agree to a revision of the overall multiannual financial framework in order to avoid these funds being lost and to be able to use them this year. the revision of the multiannual financial framework requires up to 47% of eu programmes to ensure that the unused 2014 allocation is mobilised during 2015. the new programming period is already characterised by a significant time lag, which also requires the avoidance of further losses and delays.
in writing ‒ it is important that they maintain the priority of cohesion policy even in the event of any changes within this financial framework period. at the same time, it is crucial that member states simplify the drawdown system and reduce the administrative burden for individual tenderers.
in writing - i did not support the proposal. first of all, it is interesting that the 'victim of globalisation' in this case is a road transport company. in looking for all the damage that globalization has done, money-seekers are obviously quite creative. regardless, this contribution, like others of its kind, is harmful. as it is paid for by taxes on employees and companies, less real jobs are created and competitiveness is reduced. that only magnifies the problem that this money was supposed to solve.
i voted for a resolution on the terrible armenian genocide carried out by turkey 100 years ago. sadly, to this day, the country has not acknowledged the atrocities of the murder of 1.5 million innocent armenians, 300,000 syrians, the ancient christian population of syria, and an estimated 500,000 pontic greeks. the armenian genocide must be recognised so that turkey can rectify its historical memory and move towards a better future and closer ties with the member states of the european union. turkey should really understand that effective regret and lessons from the past will help it to join the european union more than pushing for pragmatic reasons for its accession. and the deniers of the armenian genocide should understand that to turn a blind eye to reality, to wipe out a significant part of one nation in the interest of political correctness is to repeat the fatal mistakes of our ancestors who kept silent about many other genocides. but the armenian genocide carries another important message. the western world must not tolerate any more senseless bloodshed of christians and non-christians in the middle east by muslim states.
slovakia is the only country in the european union that has introduced criminal liability for denying the armenian genocide. it is an example for other countries to follow. genocide is a crime against humanity. the only way to prevent the nations from learning from the horrors that have occurred in the future is to admit their guilt and ask for forgiveness. as pope francis has said, concealing or denying evil is like letting a wound bleed without bandaging it. i find turkish president erdogan's reaction to pope francis's comment to be disproportionate. in voting on the motion for a resolution, i therefore voted in favour of the amendments, which recall the wise words of the pope: 'only openness to the truth can heal the wounds of the past.'
in writing ‒ on this anniversary, we commemorate the genocide of the armenian population perpetrated by the ottoman authorities in 1915. this genocide resulted in the extermination of the armenian community that lived in the southeastern part of the ottoman empire, which is today turkey. after the defeat of the ottoman empire in world war i, the new republic of turkey denied this historical fact. the current turkish government's efforts to improve relations with the existing armenian community should therefore be commended. both countries must continue to normalize relations and promote cultural and educational exchanges to enhance mutual understanding and improve relations that have been damaged by historical events.
in writing ‒ the memory of such tragic events has special significance today precisely so that such tragedies may never happen again. it is our duty to speak out in defence of fundamental human rights and in particular the position of smaller nations, which are threatened by the exemplary violations of rights by their larger neighbours. it is important that we remember this tragedy and pay tribute to the innocent armenian victims.
written ‒ slovakia is proud to be one of the countries that officially recognized the genocide of the armenian christian nation during the years 1915-1917, in which 1.5 to 2 million people were killed. crimes against humanity of this magnitude have no justification in a modern and democratic society. to all those who have lost their relatives and loved ones, i hereby express my sincere condolences. i feel it is my moral duty to stand up for persecuted christians around the world and express our support and help. unfortunately, history cannot be reversed, but by working together and by referring to historical events, we can help future generations learn from human mistakes. it is my absolute priority to stand by the weak, the suffering and those who are running short, and at the same time want to live a dignified and peaceful life among their loved ones both internationally and in slovakia.
i voted for this resolution because the roma genocide - like any other - cannot be forgotten. not just as a reminder of the terrible events, but as a motivation to work for the good of this community. the roma mp in slovakia, peter polák, the government's representative for the roma community, proposes the designation porajmos for the roma for genocide, which means devouring in romani and expresses the perception of the roma themselves on the matter. there are more than 400,000 roma in slovakia. the issue of roma integration is one we face every day. one of the main causes of failure is the lack of knowledge about the roma community and the non-systematic social solutions that do not have the necessary effects. it is therefore time for roma to co-design solutions for these communities and for the european union institutions to involve roma in the development of the necessary policies. if the roma are not invited to participate in these decisions, we will again be spending resources without effect.
in writing ‒ the roma holocaust during the second world war is a historical fact that needs to be officially recognised and awareness-raising. so far, little is known about the fact that the nazis and their allies murdered over half a million roma. in some countries, over 80 percent of the roma population was even exterminated. i support the declaration of a european day of remembrance for roma victims of the holocaust, to be dedicated to the memory of the victims of the roma genocide during the second world war. i believe that memorial day will also contribute to overcoming prejudice and discrimination in the name of strengthening human dignity and human rights for all regardless of their ethnic origin or colour. racial hatred clearly has no place in 21st century european society, in any of its countries or regions.
in writing ‒ as i said in the debate, i felt it was my duty to support the motion for a resolution on international roma day. but i would like to add that symbolic statements are not enough. we will not needlessly adopt resolutions on the plight of the roma in europe and its historical causes, when we see that the desperate conditions in which roma live in many - especially new - member states have remained the same for decades. programs that have the ambition to change something about this state are too short-term because they copy the election cycles. we need policies that are at least one generation in the making. it is also confirmed that the eu should have worked more closely with the new member states in the roma strategy, where roma problems are much more serious and require a very different approach.
the subject is of course very complicated, but i would like to thank my colleague, mrs oľga sehnal, very much for producing such an excellent report, because we have been dealing with this subject since 2005. i think this system -- this innovative system -- could actually save thousands of lives. and it's a great pity that the implementation date is being pushed back. road safety must be one of the european union's top priorities. it is very important that we adopt legislation that will increase the safety of the citizens of the member states on the roads. look at the mortality statistics: they're getting higher and higher every year, and they're very sad. in addition to increasing active safety, we must not forget passive safety and we must continue to work on improving the efficiency and effectiveness of rescue and medical services. i am therefore convinced that the gradual introduction of the ecall in-vehicle system will bring positive results in the future and thus save lives in the event of a major road accident. it's every minute or second that counts. i also believe that citizens' rights to information, to their personal data, will be adequately protected. there's no need to be afraid of that.
the resolution on the strategy for combating alcoholism is very important. i welcome the fact that the european parliament will be voting on this. europeans are, unfortunately, among the leaders in alcohol consumption and there are three main groups to be targeted: pregnant women, whose health needs to be protected, including that of their unborn child; young people who drink on fridays and saturdays in a terrible and, i would say, intense way - it's a new culture - and motorists. we know that many diseases - there are 60 of them - are actually diseases that could be prevented if we drank less. not to mention serious liver disease, heart disease, cancer, and brain disease. of course, we must also take into account the broken families and the violence that alcoholics inflict on others. i am in favour of labelling alcoholic beverages at the same levels as other foodstuffs.
my fellow officers! last week, there was a high-level, grassroots public hearing on the protection of indigenous minorities in the european parliament. the message from the experts and meps who spoke was clear: the eu must move on. we need to adopt the eu's minimum standards for minorities and set up an institutional framework for their enforcement. i propose that we establish a two-pillar system of minority protection in the union, where member states can continue to define indigenous national minorities as recognised by their legal systems. however, a minimum union standard is needed for these minorities. at the same time, member states retain the right to extend these minimum standards by adapting them to local needs. why is change needed? it is not the first time that this house has been warned that minority politics is a constant source of tension in europe and cannot be delayed any longer. it is good to remember that powerful empires, monarchies, and national alliances have collapsed because they failed to heed the warning in time. (the president withdrew)
in writing. the introduction of the bologna process into national higher education systems was undoubtedly the right move for europe. only by investing in and improving the academic and educational process for students in the european union will we achieve future economic growth, reduce youth unemployment and have a chance to tackle the demographic changes that the european union will face in the future as a result of population ageing. the bologna process has achieved a great deal in the last 15 years, but it needs to be revived if we are to respond together to the new challenges facing europe. we must work hard to bring the higher education systems of the member states of the european union closer together through common rules of cooperation.
in writing. ‒ the the objective of the convention of the international maritime organisation on standards of training, qualification and watchkeeping for the crew of fishing vessels is to ensure that the personnel on board fishing vessels (mandatory only for vessels of 24 metres in length and over and of 750 kw and over) are qualified to demonstrate this qualification by an official certificate and to demonstrate their fitness for work by a medical examination. this would minimise the potential risk to life and property as well as the risk to the marine environment during operations on board vessels. as the european union cannot ratify the convention, it must be acceded to by the individual member states in accordance with the precedent in the tfeu concerning external competence, but the member states cannot ratify this convention without the authorisation of the european union. the purpose of this decision is to allow the member states to ratify that convention.
in writing. ‒ it is essential to create the conditions for the member states of the union to ratify the convention of the international maritime organisation on standards of training, qualification and watchkeeping for the crew of fishing vessels. uniform rules for this type of economic activity will increase the skills of workers and at the same time increase the safety of the work carried out. this will lead to a reduction in accidents and at the same time to an increase in the protection of the life and health of workers in this sector.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal because, although i am not entirely convinced of the correctness of the convention in view of the possible increase in regulatory burden and/or other costs, i agree that member states may accede to this convention if they deem it appropriate.
in writing. ‒ the implementation and delivery of cohesion policy for the well-being of european citizens and the economies of all member states depends on the effective management of the budgetary allocations in the multiannual financial framework. in order to avoid unused appropriations from 2014 being lost, but to allow them to be carried over to subsequent years, a revision of the mff regulation is necessary. i therefore welcome the relevant revision which will allow the unused appropriations in 2014 to be carried over to the 2015 financial year to the greatest extent possible. at the same time, however, i must express my deep concern at the fact that a significant number of programmes have still not been adopted. delays in the adoption of programmes cause overall delays in the implementation of cohesion policy and its objectives and undermine citizens' confidence in its functioning. i therefore consider it of the utmost importance that all programmes are adopted by mid-2015.
in writing. i supported the draft amending budget because it is of the utmost importance for eu citizens and for the economy of all member states that the budgetary appropriations not used in 2014 can be carried over to the following years and contribute to job creation and growth. although the revision of the mff regulation is practically standard procedure at the beginning of each mff period, we must be concerned about the long-term impact of a one-year delay on the overall payment situation. the transfer of funds may put considerable pressure on some member states, leading to difficulties in mobilising funds. the commission must therefore provide all the necessary assistance to member states to overcome the existing problems with the use of the structural funds. at the same time, when adopting the amending budget, we must point out that a significant number of programmes have still not been adopted, which may cause further delays in the implementation of the mobilisation policy by individual member states in subsequent years.
in writing. ‒ i support the possibility of transferring appropriations not used in 2014 to the 2015 financial year. such a measure can help create jobs as well as economic growth. nevertheless, i consider it essential that the commission closely monitors the area of payments and ensures that the funds are used efficiently.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the proposal because i do not agree with the transfer of unused funds from 2014 to the following years. the european union has spent taxpayers' money in a desperately inefficient way for too long, without any self-reflection. this is another way to save at least some of the taxpayers' money from further waste.
in writing. an integral part of the single market and the freedoms it provides to increase road safety adequate access to emergency assistance. in the 21st century, europe cannot afford to have no common it infrastructure for emergency services, or to have no data search and location systems, since the former form of operation has not only promoted but also made it more difficult to organise assistance with a common approach. particular attention shall be paid to the existence of technical conditions. it is important to establish a free system that is effective and respects data protection at eu level. the second reading report meets this condition and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the the introduction of the pan-european interoperable ecall service has been on the agenda of the european institutions since 2005 and, despite the fact that this innovative system could save thousands of lives, the implementation date is constantly being postponed. road safety must be one of the european union's top priorities. it is very important to adopt legislation that will increase the safety of citizens of the member states on the roads of the european union, because the statistics on road fatalities are very distressing. in addition to increasing active safety, we must not forget passive safety and constantly work to improve the efficiency of rescue and medical services. the gradual introduction of ecall in-vehicle systems will have positive results in the future, because if a major traffic accident occurs, every minute or second determines whether the person concerned survives or not. we need to support any innovative system that can reduce the response time of the rescue teams and at the same time reduce the total number of traffic jams caused by road accidents.
in writing. ‒ the in the case of road accident rescue, the minute is life and death. rescue services therefore need to have precise navigation to the accident site in order to be able to provide first aid to accident victims in the shortest possible time. unfortunately, inaccurate information about the accident site provided by injured or shocked participants in the accident or other witnesses has little informative value and thus creates delays in the rescue operation. the ecall in-vehicle system, which is automatically activated and automatically dials 112 when a serious accident is detected, will speed up the call to the emergency services to the exact scene of the accident, helping to save the lives of thousands of citizens and increase overall road safety. for the reasons set out above, i am voting in favour of the adoption of the recommendation for second reading on the council position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation on type-approval requirements for the deployment of the 112-based ecall in-vehicle system. as a doctor, i believe that the ecall system will soon be launched in all member states.
in writing. - i think e-call is a good idea. modern technology brings us innovations that can protect our lives in times of need. at the same time, i would like to draw attention to the fact that this tool should not be misused to monitor the movement of persons in the hands of governments or interest groups. that is why i voted for the amendment which would allow users of e-call to decide when to use the system and when to turn it off.
in writing. road accidents represent an incalculable cost for every eu country. the data from 2012 and last year are alarming. every year, some 28 000 people are killed and more than 1.5 million injured on eu roads. the european parliament has long been working towards a system that would mitigate the consequences of road accidents, in particular saving lives, and be accessible to every driver. the introduction of ecall in all new vehicles via the 112 service will certainly contribute to building the necessary infrastructure for immediate operational assistance. i would urge that this obligation not be limited to passenger motor vehicles but extended to motorcycles, buses and other means of transport in order to protect the life and health of road users. the protection of personal data is a major issue throughout the system, and it must be dealt with both legally and technically in such a way as to ensure the required level of privacy protection and to take measures to prevent tracking and misuse.
in writing. ‒ ecall will allow the precise identification of the accident site and provide enough data to allow for more efficient and faster police and rescue response. in addition to reducing road fatalities, its introduction is another step towards unifying rescue systems in the european union.
in writing. ‒ i strongly supported the ecall regulation, which will help reduce the number of deaths and the severity of injuries on the roads. the union has been working towards this service since 2003 and today we have approved march 2018 as the date from which ecall will be mandatory in passenger cars. owners of vehicles produced before this year will be able to activate the system on a voluntary basis. i trust that the commission will solve all the technical problems associated with the introduction of the service and that the system will also be accessible to people with disabilities, namely the deaf.
in writing. ‒ the biofuels agreement voted today is a balanced compromise between the eu's environmental objectives and the legitimate interests of agricultural operators and biofuel producers. the global increase in land use due to the production of so-called traditional biofuels from agricultural raw materials is not uniform. the new legislation takes better account of the specific situation of the central european region than in previous drafts, where, without endangering food production and rainforests, a large amount of biofuel can be produced by simply increasing yields, providing a secure livelihood for those who live off agriculture. the european commission should develop a calculation methodology for low-land-use change ethanol by 2017. we will work within the framework of parliament to ensure that the criteria to be developed are favourable to farmers. the directive provides an opportunity to increase the export earnings of the central european member states and to secure the long-term sale of their agricultural products. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european commission's proposal, presented in october 2012, aimed to start the transition to biofuels, which would ensure that greenhouse gas savings are achieved, also taking into account indirect land-use change emissions. the european parliament adopted its position as early as september 2013. the cap on the use of conventional biofuels was set at 6%, up from the 5% ceiling proposed by the european commission. according to the european parliament, this ceiling should also apply to financial support for biofuels. it is essential that this ceiling be set strictly in order to achieve the 2020 targets, that it not be increased further and that the directives be updated with a sufficient long-term perspective.
in writing. ‒ i think that using agricultural land in slovakia and the eu for biofuel production is a bad solution. if we are to produce biofuels at all, we would rather make them from waste unsuitable for use in the food or feed industry. agricultural land is here as a gift to be used to provide for the human population. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution on the council position on the fuel quality directive and the directive on energy from new renewable sources.
in writing. the directive on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources sets a mandatory target of 10% renewable energy in the transport sector by 2020. another directive introduced a mandatory target of 6% reduction in greenhouse gas emission intensity from fuels used in road transport and non-road mobile machinery by 2020. the commission's position and its alignment with the european parliament's amendments will be important in the final form of both directives. the main problem is to set a ceiling for conventional biofuels. the commission is proposing a 5% ceiling for the use of conventional biofuels, while the ep adopted a first reading position introducing a 6% ceiling. another challenge for the final form of the directive will be the target for advanced biofuels. while the ep proposed a level of 0.5% in 2016 and 2.5% in 2020 at first reading, the council only proposes a non-binding sub-target at the 0.5% reference level. the reconciliation of a green europe and a europe open to job creation and investment growth will be the task of the next few months for the representatives of the ep, the commission and the council.
in writing. ‒ currently, 90% of nylon waste used for purchases in the european union is used once before it is discarded. this is a huge environmental burden, as 8 billion plastic bags are discarded in nature every year. the new european legislation approved is therefore designed to reduce excessive and sometimes unnecessary waste generation. it is a milestone that we have managed to adopt binding measures at eu level to reduce waste generation. i hope that member states will take appropriate measures as soon as possible to meet the 2025 targets set by the newly approved directive. i was happy to support the adoption of the new eu legislation, as it will not only effectively reduce nylon waste but also encourage environmentally conscious consumer behaviour. this will help to create a cleaner, more liveable european environment. i also think it is important to encourage eu citizens and businesses to protect the environment in this way.
in writing. ‒ for the first time in the 40-year history of european waste legislation, the sustainable reduction of the consumption of lightweight plastic bags and the imposition of this obligation on member states represents a significant step forward. the advantage for member states is the choice between two commitments, either to take measures to ensure a consumption rate of 90 lightweight plastic carrier bags per person by 2019 and 40 by 2025, or the second option is that by the end of 2018 no lightweight plastic carrier bags will be provided free of charge at the point of sale. the european commission has also made progress by setting specific labelling conditions for biodegradable and compostable plastic bags, in particular to prevent mislabelling, especially for oxidized-biodegradable plastic bags.
in writing. ‒ the commission's declaration of acceptance of the agreement amending directive 94/62/ec as regards the reduction of the consumption of lightweight plastic carrier bags is a qualitative step forward in the field of the introduction of rules on the consumption of these goods, which have negative environmental impacts. it is in the interest of all of us that the member states of the european union should move as soon as possible to introduce clear and firm rules that will lead to a reduction in plastic bags with a thickness of less than 0.05 mm, so that the measures taken take account of the economic and social situation in the country and at the same time strengthen environmental protection.
in writing. ‒ the neglect of plastic bags by consumers and businesses has a serious negative impact on the environment, given the large amounts of waste and pollutants that they release into the environment, including water. studies show that the average european uses around 200 plastic bags a year, with almost 90% of them ending up in waste after a single use. such behaviour is unacceptable and it was therefore necessary to guide the behaviour of economic operators so that they do not waste and prefer greener substitutes. i consider it a major positive step for the eu to have adopted, for the first time in the forty years of european waste legislation, binding measures at eu level to reduce waste generation. in particular, it is an obligation for member states to achieve a lasting reduction in the consumption of lightweight plastic carrier bags. for the reasons set out above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the european parliament's legislative resolution on plastic carrier bags.
in writing. ‒ i consider this report to be crucial. perhaps we can finally stop the madness of plastic bag pollution. from 2019, we're finally going to get rid of these plastic pests that we give away for free, that have not only poisoned our land, but i believe have poisoned our minds. it's ironic that these bags were invented for single use, yet after people throw them away after a few minutes of use, they stick around for hundreds of years. i hope that with the bags gone, the irresponsible wasteful human attitude that they've created, which is all about today's convenience, will go away. this is a negative example of influencing consumer behavior. i believe that with positive examples and ideas, we can actually engage half of the environmental consciousness.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the amendment to the council position with a view to adopting a directive on the reduction of the consumption of lightweight plastic carrier bags, because i am strongly in favour of reducing the consumption of plastic carrier bags. today, we can say that the amount of such waste would create a new continent. as citizens, we need to rethink our shopping habits in order to keep the ecosystem clean.
in writing. plastic waste is a major environmental problem in each member state. the sorting and separation of waste is inadequate and, if it is, plastic waste is not recycled but incinerated, which again negatively affects the environment. plastic bags as packaging are very easily replaced by other packaging materials that will be used for a long time and will not be a burden on nature. i realize that the 100 billion plastic bags we consume in the eu every year are a lot of workers who are going to lose their jobs. the resolution therefore envisages a gradual reduction in the production and consumption of plastic bags. member states have two options: they can take measures to ensure that the annual consumption rate does not exceed an average of 90 lightweight plastic carrier bags per person by the end of 2019 and no more than 40 lightweight plastic carrier bags per person by 2025, or to ensure that by the end of 2018 no lightweight plastic carrier bags are provided free of charge at the point of sale of goods.
in writing. ‒ the economic instruments are the most effective way of protecting the environment. 90% of plastic bags are used once, which has a negative impact on the environment. slovakia also needs to reduce its consumption of these single-use bags, as the consumption in the slovak republic is 466 pieces per person per year compared to, for example, only 4 pieces in denmark. environmental protection can thus also be guaranteed by reducing the consumption of single-use goods that require a long recycling time.
in writing. ‒ while i am not in favour of excessive regulation, i supported the proposal setting out specific targets to reduce the consumption of plastic bags. one hundred billion plastic bags are consumed in europe every year, and their overuse has a catastrophic impact on the environment. slovakia is among the eu member states with the highest consumption of alcohol and, unlike other eu countries, there is currently no legislation in slovakia to address this problem. in order to achieve a successful reduction in consumption in practice, slovakia must ensure that the implementation of the new measures is as easy as possible and communicate intensively not only with traders but also with plastic bag producers. but the most important thing is to gradually change people's minds so that they stop using single-use plastic bags and think more about recycling and the environment.
in writing. ‒ after a complex trilogue, the european parliament, together with the council and the commission, has worked out a proposal that optimises the provision of carbon dioxide reductions in maritime transport. maritime transport is one of the most important sectors of the economy and employment in the european union and it is essential that the european parliament also looks to this important industry to ensure that environmental rules are respected.
in writing. water transport has been, and i assume will always be, a key part of our daily lives, as evidenced by the fact that up to 90% of the world's traded goods are transported by waterways. although maritime transport is a major factor in the development, integration and growth of the internal market with tangible benefits for the european economy, i would point out that overseas and trans-oceanic shipping generates 1.2 billion tonnes of co2 per year, representing 4.5% of global greenhouse gas production. i also find it unacceptable that ships produce a lot of nitrogen and sulphur oxides in addition to co2, which have a significant impact on global climate change and damage to public health. i supported the resolution because we see reducing global greenhouse gas emissions as one of the ways to make the most effective contribution to meeting the eu's climate goals. i also supported the report because i am concerned by the statement by the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) that emissions from ships should increase by a further 30% by 2020. i hope that the adoption of this report will finally put the emissions on hold and give some thought to those governments which have ignored shipping emissions.
in writing. ‒ reliable and accurate european statistics serve two essential purposes as a public good: as a building block for policy-makers' decisions and as a picture of the state of the economy and society, providing assurance for other governments and the financial market. however, events in recent years have shaken the confidence of the public and the markets. since then, we have seen how misleading and false statistics can add to political and economic turmoil. the sovereign debt crisis was certainly exacerbated by public and market scepticism about the accuracy of statistics on the public debt and the government deficit. this should be taken as a warning, as public confidence in the credibility of statistics is key to creating a culture of fact-based policy-making and accountability. in this respect, the timing of the report is excellent. we need to rebuild public confidence in statistics. i believe that the previous initiatives should be strengthened. the statistical code of practice adopted by the commission and the member states must be implemented and strictly adhered to, which is why i supported this report.
in writing. ‒ european statistics should be conducted in a transparent manner, on the basis of professional criteria and free from political pressure. all procedures and information should be made public. member states may establish a national body to contribute to ensuring the professional independence of european statisticians in a member state. it is also important to guarantee the independence of eurostat through effective parliamentary scrutiny.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal as it limits any efforts by governments to falsify statistics.
in writing. ‒ given the strong impact of biological interactions and environmental effects on cod, herring and sprat populations in the baltic sea, it is necessary to adapt the rates and techniques of their exploitation to new scientific knowledge on interactions and changes in environmental conditions. such an approach would also be consistent with the ecosystem approach to fisheries management. the european commission's proposal also envisages that the regulation will include rules on by-catches of flatfish, which can be caught in significant quantities as by-catches in cod catches.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal because it contributes to the more efficient functioning of the current legislation on the fish concerned and also leads to the implementation of some of the provisions of the multiannual plan, given the possibilities of implementation in practice.
in writing. ‒ the reform of the common fisheries policy introduces fundamental changes to the rules governing fishing. in 2015 and 2019, a regulation imposing an obligation to land all catches will enter into force. this is an obligation where fishermen will have to land all unwanted catches that are unsellable, either because of insufficient quotas or size. however, this landing obligation is contrary to several european regulations and therefore the proposal is to amend 7 regulations at the same time so that they are compatible with the article in question of the basic regulation on the common fisheries policy.
in writing. ‒ taking into account the accession of croatia to the eu under the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european communities and russia is a logical step for the eu. croatia is a country that has successfully managed the integration process and can be an example for the current candidate countries, especially the balkan countries.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal as it aims only to update the current legal situation in view of croatia's accession to the eu.
the comparability of the quality of education achieved and the overcoming of the language barrier create opportunities for many young people to use their talents and knowledge. this is regardless of whether they are citizens of germany, france or slovakia. i therefore wish to stress, together with the rapporteur, the important link between the bologna process, research support and the erasmus+ programme. i support the report. however, the high unemployment of young graduates should not concern us and lead to uncritical support of scientific and technical disciplines. the low employment of humanities graduates is more related to the long-term decline in their quality. technology alone will not save us, because ultimately, there is always a search for a relationship with people. and understanding man is the domain of the humanities.
in writing. ‒ today, the european parliament adopted a comprehensive report on the follow-up to the implementation of the bologna process. targeted proposals are expected to bring progress in higher education. the bologna reforms have led to the creation of the european higher education area and significant achievements have been made over the past 15 years in making higher education systems more comparable, increasing mobility, ensuring quality assurance systems and the recognition of diplomas, improving the quality of education systems and increasing the attractiveness of european higher education. the process will include the future adaptation of education systems to labour market needs, helping to improve european employability and competitiveness; and the further enhancement of the attractiveness of european higher education. parliament called on the countries of the european higher education area to implement the reforms agreed by them, with the aim of achieving the objectives of the bologna process as soon as possible and enhancing the credibility of the european higher education area. the negative experience is that there are member states and higher education institutions that create obstacles to the recognition of diplomas and qualifications. in some cases, there is an unjustified distrust of central european systems. it is in the common interest to eliminate existing and unjustified disparities and the resulting obstacles to free movement in the internal market. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the introduction of the bologna process into national higher education systems was clearly the right move for europe. only by investing in and improving the academic and educational process for students in the european union will we achieve future economic growth, reduce youth unemployment and have a chance to tackle the demographic changes that the european union will face in the future as a result of population ageing. the bologna process has achieved a great deal in the last 15 years, but it needs to be revived if we are to respond together to the new challenges facing europe. we must work hard to bring the higher education systems of the member states of the european union closer together through common rules of cooperation. we need to learn from the bologna process, whose objectives were achieved to varying degrees in the participating countries. the financial and economic crisis has shown us that it is very important for higher education systems to prepare students for those areas of the economy where they have a chance to make a difference. universities in the member states must stop producing thousands of young unemployed people every year who are not ready for the demands of the labour market. it is also important to strengthen the link between higher education and research by facilitating the dialogue between science and society and by promoting the beneficial use of technological innovation in teaching and learning.
in writing. ‒ harmonizing the higher education sectors of the signatory countries of the bologna process at institutional, national and european level is a means by which we can provide students from our countries with quality education and experience through mobility, taking into account the diversity and diversity of study in the participating countries. knowing the differences and specificities of study is attractive and appealing to students, but at the same time it can be a driving force in the development of education and thus the competitiveness of the union as a whole.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the follow-up to the implementation of the bologna process. the bologna process has made a major contribution to the mobility of young people and to improving the comparability of higher education structures over the past 15 years. i see student mobility as an important tool for improving the skills of young people, which is key to reducing their unemployment. efforts to promote such mobility and the mutual recognition and comparability of educational standards should therefore be stepped up, thereby ensuring the quality and transparency of the european higher education area.
in writing. in 1999, 29 european countries signed the bologna declaration, which aimed to create a european higher education area (ehea) by 2010. this intergovernmental initiative, initiated by the ec, sought to find a common response to existing problems such as creating the conditions for greater mobility, adapting education systems to the needs of the labour market, etc. today, after evaluating the last 15 years, we can say that the bologna process has achieved a great deal in terms of quality of education, mobility and recognition of academic degrees. the bologna process has generally achieved greater transparency and simplified access to information on european higher education. despite the results achieved, there is still a need to strengthen the link between higher education and research and innovation and, in particular, the needs of the labour market. analyses show that one in three eu employers have difficulty finding adequately qualified workers. member states therefore have a political obligation to become more actively involved in the bologna process in order to improve the quality of higher education and to enable as many applicants as possible to study in order to be able to apply for jobs.
in writing. ‒ the bologna process has created a european higher education area, which has made it possible to improve the quality of education and its comparability between different eu member states, increase mobility and simplify the recognition of diplomas. yet, many problems remain in the field of education. it is important to adapt our education systems to the needs of the labour market and to improve overall employment and competitiveness. in the light of the current high level of youth unemployment, it is also necessary to support young people in studying, including through readily available student loans, and to promote more study abroad and programmes aimed at training specialists needed in the labour market.
in writing. - i abstained from the vote on the report. while i agree with many of its objectives of increasing the effectiveness of education, i disagree with the emphasis on formal targets, such as the target of meeting the 40% quota of young people with a university education by 2020, or the calls for increasing funding without further criteria of its usefulness.
in writing. ‒ the i supported the resolution stressing the importance of continuing the bologna process, while also highlighting the need for greater efforts to reform higher education systems to meet the needs of the labour market. the bologna process aims to make higher education more compatible across europe, so that different higher education systems do not create barriers to labour mobility and that european universities are more attractive to non-european students. this is voluntary cooperation between states, which is why reforms are implemented at different rates and to different degrees. in relation to slovakia, it is important to note that the two-stage education system the division of studies into bachelor's and master's degrees has not yet fulfilled its purpose. bachelor's studies do not prepare graduates for the labour market, most of them continue to study for a master's degree. we also have gaps in student mobility. we are the country with the most students leaving to study abroad, but we fail to attract foreign students to our universities. studying at a foreign university is still not a reality for many students whose families are unable to finance the costs not covered by student grants. the recognition of credits also remains problematic. there's still a strong social filter in college. the educational level of parents has a strong influence on the educational level of their children. poor children often do not attend college because of inadequate support from the state.
in writing. ‒ the ep's report on european cinema is about supporting european films and promoting and facilitating their distribution. the easier access to european films will allow more eu citizens to benefit from our diverse cultural heritage. the film has both cultural and economic value in our society. an audiovisual sector that contributes to economic growth, creates new jobs and stimulates creative innovation in the european digital market. film education can have a significant impact on individuals, influencing young people's personality development and how they perceive the world. the introduction of film education at all levels of education in the member states therefore plays a very important role and has long-term benefits. interacting with european films is the best way to learn about the history, culture, traditions and languages of other european member states, and it is also a means for us to communicate our own culture to the rest of europe's citizens. european cinema has a prominent role to play in preserving linguistic diversity, as it promotes all the languages of europe, alongside the major languages. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the process of digitising cinemas is slowly coming to an end and we need to focus on the effective promotion and distribution of european films and attract many more people to these shows, because the problem is not so much the quantity of european films shown but the number of visitors who like to go to these films. national and pan-european support for the production of european films is significant, but only involved in the production process, not in distribution, which results in significantly limited distribution opportunities for european films. it is very sad that europeans in their 500 million market would much rather pay to see american films which earn far more in europe than european ones. i am therefore very pleased that, even in a time of economic and social crisis, the european parliament's lux european film prize is awarded, which stimulates the debate on european film and cinematography every year.
in writing. ‒ the development of film production in the current era of digitalisation plays an important role on several levels cultural, social and economic. in addition to promoting mutual cultural knowledge between countries and creating cultural heritage as a source of knowledge and education for future generations, film production is an important economic and business sector and employer. further support for film development must be directed in particular towards the distribution of european films to other countries, which can bring economic growth and employment, in addition to making european culture more visible.
in writing. ‒ the european film industry is one of the world's largest producers, with 1 500 films released last year. despite their artistic quality and originality, european films have a relatively low audience, which is the result of weak european marketing in a market that is highly fragmented due to national preferences and language barriers, as well as strong international competition, especially from the united states. targeted efforts should therefore be directed towards improving the pan-european promotion of films from individual member states and overcoming difficulties in distribution in europe. i believe that the circulation of foreign european films in the eu is lamentably low and that of the thousands of films produced, only a very small fragment reaches the audience. we should therefore learn from the effective techniques of non-european productions that are widely distributed in the union, so that european audiences can be enriched by the diversity of european films and thus of european culture as such. in conclusion, i believe that legal access to audiovisual works should be extended in today's digital world.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on european cinema in the digital age, as the resolution aims to promote european cinema and to strengthen its promotion, distribution and visibility so that all europeans can benefit from our common cultural heritage.
in writing. i supported the report on european cinema in the digital age because it aims to promote european cinema and strengthen its promotion, distribution and visibility so that all europeans can benefit from their cultural heritage. in 2014, the european film industry produced 1 500 films that have become cultural as well as economic goods, while helping to shape european identities by reflecting cultural and linguistic diversity, promoting european cultures across borders and facilitating cultural exchange and mutual understanding between citizens. currently, 87% of all film canvases have been digitised. film literacy has a great impact on individuals, especially young people. watching european films is one of the best ways to learn about the history, traditions and language of europe's neighbours. therefore, individual member states should also intensify their efforts to improve media literacy, and in particular film literacy, within school curricula and in cultural education institutions.
in writing. ‒ european films are part of europe's cultural heritage. they give us a great opportunity to promote cultural diversity and to reveal the history and traditions of our neighbours. it is therefore essential to ensure better distribution, increase spending on promotion and advertising and to integrate them into education. of course, subtitling and dubbing are essential if we want to break into the world and distribute european films abroad. the creation of a digital single market will thus also create the conditions for a better promotion of european films in the digital age.
in writing. ‒ the forestry has always been a very important part of the lives of the rural population of the european union. even today, in the modern era of technology and science, the forestry sector still employs 3.5 million people and is the third largest employer in all of europe. the european union should pay much more attention to research and development and invest in the development of new efficient production possibilities and the design of new products. these investments will also have a very positive impact on the european union's environmental and climate objectives in the future. the european union should remove existing barriers for forest managers and not create new ones, such as the obligation for forest owners to draw up plans for natura 2000. it is essential that the european convention on forests be adopted as soon as possible. in order to be able to adopt clear and understandable legislation in the future, which will not burden forest managers, it is necessary to strengthen the standing forestry committee. the european commission must work very hard and carefully to ensure that we preserve good quality forest management for future generations.
in writing. ‒ the the forestry sector is the third largest employer in the european union. wood is an important sustainable and ecological raw material, the management of which has an impact on other sectors of the economy, in particular the wood processing industry and the production of energy from renewable sources. it is therefore necessary to establish a framework for economic activities in forests in such a way as to preserve their ecological and environmental function while ensuring the efficient and economic management of wood as an important sustainable raw material. the union member states should take measures which take account of the regional specificities of forest management and at the same time promote the increase of employment in forestry and related sectors.
in writing. ‒ forests and wood as a sustainable raw material play an irreplaceable role in the ecosystem. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution on a new strategy for forests and the forestry sector. forests need to be developed as they are the cultural and economic heritage of both the eu and the slovak republic.
in writing. i supported the new eu forestry strategy because forests cover half of the eu's territory and are also a source of unique flora, fauna and fungi. only healthy and stable forests can fully fulfil the protection function of people and nature by preventing avalanches and mudslides and serving as a natural protection against floods. in managing forests, we must also take into account their multifunctional role from an economic, social and environmental perspective. the rate of deforestation and illegal logging must be eliminated and, where possible, prevented. wood is an important resource of great economic importance, especially for rural areas. although 50% of europe's forests are privately owned, owners must ensure that forests fulfil their ecological, economic and social function on a sustainable basis. sustainable forest management means ensuring that forest cover is preserved for future generations in the long term.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal because it seeks to reduce the administrative burden and limit any future administrative burden related to forest ownership and management, which is definitely beneficial for forests and the economy.
the european agenda on security is not just about fighting terrorism and cross-border crime, but requires a comprehensive approach. we need clear rules and effective tools. we need rules and tools to fight cybercrime, and that's been said many times here. if you'll allow me, i'll be addressing policies that go beyond the security policy agenda. it is, in particular, an intervention in the field of external policy, in a way that is indispensable for the european union. we have to learn to find solutions, how to better intervene in cases like ukraine, in cases like syria. we need to do a better job of handling immigration and asylum policy. my colleagues have spoken again and again about the situation we have at the moment. yes, the truth is that we have to learn to explain to our citizens in the member states of the european union why it is not possible to cyber-closing the european union, why we have to look for ways to help these people in their countries, and then find some solution, let's say, to some redistribution of these immigrants into the european union, into all the member states, so that it is not just italy and other countries that are burdened.
in writing. i think we should invest much more energy in european political integration, in our unity, and not lament the fact that we are giving up pieces of our national sovereignty when we are making decisions that are in the interests of european citizens. as we know, fraud involving the union's finances amounts to more than 500 million euros a year. this is one, but not the only, reason why i support the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office within the eu. it is simply a fact that member states are often unable to deal effectively with cross-border crime and financial manipulation, and that is why this new institution is needed. of course, we need to define the exact powers, how they will be divided between the public prosecutor's office and each member state, and we need to put in place guarantees to make the new institution truly independent. i believe that we must continue to fight fraud within the union tirelessly, not only to reduce abuses and crime but also to increase the confidence of european taxpayers and to return to the eu institutions.
the european court of auditors has a budget of eur 140 million per year. in return, we get one report that has no impact on practically anything, and in addition, some incentives for suspected corruption that are filed with olaf. in 2014, the european court of auditors made 14 submissions to olaf. that's exactly how many petitions i've filed one mep also filed 14 petitions in a year. and there's a huge amount of corruption in the european funds, because people think that money fell from the sky. i consider it a mockery of all european taxpayers that the european court of auditors, with a budget of eur 140 million, is filing 14 petitions in one year, whereas corruption exists in virtually every single project. the european court of auditors itself is the best example of the waste of european taxpayers' money.
in writing. the european parliament's budget is mainly indexed. if this procedure is continued for many years at a time, it brings significant deficiencies and may even lead to deformities. this is probably why the budget contains such a high percentage of transfers, whereby all the appropriations available at the end of the year are transferred to the budget lines for buildings, and in particular to the reserve chapters for the buildings and the reserve chapters for the buildings. the aim is to reduce the number of this situation is repeated year after year and for the the budgetary strategy should include the building-related instalments as part of the budget strategy and properly incorporate them into the budgeting process, and not only in the budgeting process but also in the budgeting process itself. it's like a secretly planned procedure. at least one year during the five-year term, the budget should be based on actual needs, and subsequent years should be based on the actual needs of the member states. the dextra was no longer so harmful.
for the ecr group. we all know how important it is for young people to develop work habits and to function as active members of society from an early age. ideally, labour markets in europe should be able to offer such employment opportunities without our intervention. we do not live in an ideal world, but in europe with regions full of hundreds of thousands of young people without work. we therefore reached a strong agreement with the rapporteurs that we would do everything we could to help young people. the young people today will get a signal from the european parliament that we want to do everything we can for them. but our work must not end here. it is for the member states to use the increased pre-financing in a meaningful way. if the only outcome is to play for effect and short-term improvement in numbers, member states will only be preparing young people for further disappointment.
in writing. i welcome the commission's decision to increase the initial amount of advance payments for 2015 from 1% to 30%, which is approximately eur 1 billion, to support youth employment. in my country, slovakia, too, youth unemployment is climbing to 30%. however, i see the easing of the funds as an operational solution to the consequences of the economic crisis. i personally see safeguards for young people in society-wide systemic measures that take into account national requirements. we see that the market cannot solve this, so it is the state that has to guarantee the efficiency of the resources spent by spending on education. we need to go back to models where departmental requirements are linked to public education resources. active entrepreneurship and microfinance should be encouraged, including for small and medium-sized employers. furthermore, it is necessary to take measures to convert unemployment benefits into remuneration for work performed. i hope that the member states with the highest youth unemployment rates will seize this opportunity and help young people to get a job, so that young people can start to trust society and the common europe again.
for the s&d group. together we fight for higher growth, jobs, a better quality of life for our citizens. sometimes, though, we put obstacles in our way in this endeavor. let me give you an example: members send written questions to the commission. the questions keep increasing. the numbers are now approaching 1,700 questions a month. the flood of questions is employing dozens of people. the cost is in the millions of euros a month. it's hard for me to say, but there are times when for those who ask, the answer isn't the main thing they're looking for. the commission sometimes underestimates the answer and fails to respond responsibly to a question asked in good faith. perhaps he will evaluate it as a question of numbers only. we found a solution. it was clearly supported by the various political groups in the committee on budgets. if web portals do not quantify these questions as activities that evaluate the work of members, their number will decrease significantly. this solution will cut red tape and save millions of euros in the commission's and the european parliament's budgets. it will also create a space for members, assistants and staff of the institutions to tackle real problems. ladies and gentlemen, after long negotiations, we have reached a compromise in the committee on budgets. but now a proposal has been put forward to change the compromise. if we want to solve the problem at its core, please vote for the motion that the committee on budgets has approved. we'll be submitting proposals for additional million-dollar savings in the fall. i thank the rapporteur and look forward to further cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the discharge given to the commission in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, as well as the discharge for the implementation of the budgets of the education, audiovisual and culture executive agency, the small and medium-sized enterprises executive agency, the consumers, health, agriculture and food executive agency, the european research council executive agency and the innovation and networks executive agency. it is important that the european commission manages its budget in such a way that there is no thematic overlap and no duplication between different directorates-general with the same or similar competences.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the discharge because, as the report also states, the emphasis on spending taxpayers' money is on spending itself and the use of the minute money is only secondary. such an approach is an insult to the taxpayers and therefore i could not support it.
i very much appreciate the efforts of the rapporteur to ensure a smooth and rapid adoption of parliament's position on this commission proposal. this is a situation where a quick response is important and will allow member states with the most problems to start projects aimed at creating jobs for young people. i supported the motion for a resolution, although i still have serious doubts. i am not sure whether the most vulnerable group is young people or rather those older people of pre-retirement age who when they are laid off no one can employ them anymore. and i don't know if the public funding for job creation for young people will have any unintended consequences. yes, young people need to gain work experience. but if they also become convinced that the state is responsible for their employment and income, then it would be very badly invested money.
in writing ‒ despite the fact that the european union has adopted a number of instruments to help young people and member states to combat high unemployment, it has still not fully overcome this disaster. the situation in several member states remains very alarming. one of the problems is that member states have not made sufficient use of the possibilities of the youth employment initiative that they could have had in the individual regions. the european commission is therefore acting quickly and wants to release €1 billion to enable the member states concerned to start the projects concerned. it is very important that this regulation is implemented as soon as possible and to commend the european commission for its unremitting efforts to help young people get through these critical years for europe.
‒ the release of eur 1 billion to fight youth unemployment in the member states of the european union will allow the amount of advance payments to be increased to 30%. member states should thus be more motivated to seek measures and implement projects in their countries that will increase the employment of young people up to 25 and 30 years of age.
in writing ‒ the unemployment rate among young people in the european union is reaching alarming levels and is rising alarmingly. i therefore consider it appropriate that the eu makes additional efforts to help member states cope with youth unemployment. such welcome steps include the release of eur 1 billion to enable member states to start the necessary projects for which public funding has not been sufficient to date. although not new funding, the new budget will increase the rate of advance payments from 1% to 30%, which can help considerably in the fight against unemployment. member states should therefore mobilise quickly and start using the additional funds as soon as possible for projects in the areas most needed in their regions.
in writing. ‒ young people are an investment in the future of the eu and its economy. slovakia has the eighth highest youth unemployment rate in the eu. that is why i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on increasing the advance payments paid to promote the employment of young people. the programme aims to help, in particular, graduates and the unemployed under 25.
in writing. ‒ youth unemployment is a major problem not only in the eu but also in slovakia. it is therefore important to fund programmes to support young people. however, to create sustainable conditions, it is necessary to encourage young people to start businesses, simplify the rules for entrepreneurship and reduce the administrative burden. one tool that can support young people in entrepreneurship is the adoption of a directive on one-person limited liability companies, which will allow companies to be set up in the eu through online registration and with a minimum capital of €1. the european union should take all steps to ensure that this directive is adopted.
‒ i did not support the proposal because i believe that the youth employment initiative will do more harm than good. i do not therefore consider it right to continue supporting it by increasing the advance payments to the member states.
in writing. ‒ with regard to clothing imports, we recently recalled the tragic factory fires in bangladesh two years ago. in addition to economic considerations, i would like to stress that in our relations with all importing countries, we must also pay greater attention to the fundamental human rights of their citizens in the course of their work, in particular the right to decent working conditions. in the present case, the products concerned are apparel products originating in belarus and north korea. we know how these countries stand on the concepts of democracy and human rights. i believe that the eu should seize every opportunity to stand up for its core values and to treat them as a key issue in its relations with third countries. we europeans need to be more aware of the concept of clean clothing. europe cannot put its core values behind its business interests. again, we risk our credibility by sacrificing our honor for a bowl of lentils. the requirements for decent working conditions in remote countries are thus certainly not met.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the legislative resolution repealing the council regulation on common rules for imports of certain textile products from third countries. the regulation has lost its validity. the only two countries with which the eu still maintained bilateral textile trade agreements were russia and serbia. however, the legal framework for trade in textiles with these countries has been changed by russia's membership of the wto and the association agreement with serbia.
‒ i supported the proposal as it is only a matter of bringing the current legal situation into line with reality, as the creation of other trade agreements means that this regulation no longer fulfils its purpose.
‒ i supported the proposal as it is merely a codification of the legislation currently in force without changing its substance.
in writing. ‒ i am confident that albania will continue to implement reforms that will bring it closer to the eu. in addition to democratising society, fighting corruption and making public administration more efficient, it is essential to establish a constructive and sustainable political dialogue and to intensify its cooperation with the european union.
in writing. ‒ it is important that bosnia and herzegovina continue to push for reforms in the economic, political and legislative fields. progress will result in moving closer to integration into european structures. the eu's economic cooperation with bosnia and herzegovina, in particular in trade and trade-related matters, can contribute to the consolidation of economic relations in the country and also ensure development and economic growth.
in writing. ‒ the implementation of reforms is reflected in the democratisation of society, the efficiency of public administration, as well as in development and economic growth. it is crucial that macedonia continues the reforms it has started and thus ensures a faster integration into european structures.
in writing. ‒ the consolidation reports noted by andrzej duda contribute to the unified structure of european union law, which results in the repeal of the unified eu acts and their replacement by a single legal act by a single legislative decision, provided that the changes do not contain substantive amendments. this procedure, based on the interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament, the european commission and the european council on better law-making, facilitates the coordination of legislative processes and contributes to making them more transparent for union citizens. i voted in favour of these reports because i am convinced that improving the quality of legislation and simplifying existing legislation can help to increase trust in the union.
‒ i did not support the discharge in view of the long-term inefficient use of eu development aid, as the european court of auditors points out. moreover, despite the substantial and unresolved shortcomings, the eu is interested in spending even more on this area, irrespective of the actual achievement of the set objectives.
‒ this is a technical report with no political context. this is an adjustment to the budget for the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ it is essential that budgetary resources are used efficiently and transparently. steps should also be taken in the area of contracts and calls for tenders, as well as the negotiated procedure and the green parliament. in order to reduce administrative and travel costs, it is important to contribute to a more efficient use of time and to promote an environmentally friendly parliament. the introduction of a single seat for parliament could also reduce the cost of the institutions and thus the administrative costs of the european parliament, which could save the member states up to eur 114 million a year.
in writing - i did not support the acquittal. while the european court of auditors has not found any major shortcomings in this case, the european parliament has long been 'correct' but has unnecessarily financed a number of activities and areas that bring absolutely no benefit to taxpayers. the best example is the three european parliament buildings, which are not only unnecessarily expensive but also make the work of the staff of europarliament and of meps themselves less efficient.
in writing. ‒ this is a technical report with no political context. this is an adjustment to the budget for the european council and the council.
in writing. ‒ i supported the non-discharge, given that now, as in the last four years, the council has not been willing to participate in the review of its budget in the same way as other eu institutions. this double standard in spending taxpayers' money is wrong and leads to potentially greater waste.
‒ this is a technical report with no political context. this is an adjustment to the budget of the european external action service.
in writing ‒ in view of the serious deficiencies pointed out by the court of auditors, i did not support the discharge. the european external action service has operated in a highly erratic and chaotic manner since its inception, resulting in a large amount of taxpayers' money being spent without any real results. this situation remains unchanged despite the challenges and promises of the european external action service.
in writing ‒ it's a technical report with no political context. this is an adjustment to the budget of the court of justice of the european union.
‒ i did not support the discharge because of long-standing and serious shortcomings in the use of taxpayers' money, such as the excessive length of legal proceedings, the lack of systematic use of translation and interpretation facilities, etc.
in writing ‒ it's a technical report with no political context. this is an adjustment to the court's budget.
in writing. ‒ the court underwent an external audit on a voluntary basis as early as 2008. the results of this audit have enabled them to identify and resolve their operational reservations and to carry out their work more efficiently, with lower financial and human resource requirements. i consider the court's reports, and in particular the special reports, to be a significant contribution to a better access to expenditure as regards union funds. the court's findings help us to tackle the biggest problems in the work of the institutions. the internal audit that institutions do on themselves today is not enough to get us to the ideal state. i am convinced that if the court's example were adopted by other institutions, it would reduce red tape, increase the performance of the european institutions and save tens of millions of euros a year. this is the way to best respond to the views of eurosceptics and to make the european institutions work more efficiently. we have a long way to go before we reach that state.
in writing - i did not support the acquittal. the court of auditors itself does a fairly good job and is not afraid to criticize the shortcomings of the other eu institutions (which is its job), but its work does not fall on the right track through no fault of its own. the eca has been auditing the eu budget for 20 years and each of those 20 years the audit has found an unacceptable level of error and yet the eu budget has always been approved in the end. so why does the eca spend 60% of its budget on an activity that no one takes seriously?
in writing ‒ it's a technical report with no political context. this is an adjustment to the budget for the economic and social committee.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the discharge because i do not agree with the way the economic and social committee is using its funds. the amount of work carried out by this committee is duplicated by other bodies of other eu institutions, or, given the cost of this work, it would be better not to carry it out at all. in any event, the more than eur 130 million that this committee has missed in 2013 is completely unjustified.
in writing ‒ it's a technical report with no political context. this is an adjustment to the budget for the committee of the regions.
in writing - i did not support the acquittal. the committee of the regions' budget is very large in relation to its functions. the body, which was originally intended to have mainly consultative functions, has become an authority with a budget of over eur 87 million and growing.
in writing ‒ it's a technical report with no political context. this is a budget adjustment for the european ombudsman.
‒ i did not support the discharge because the european ombudsman's office is not meeting its stated objectives with regard to the use of its budget. as indicated in the report, the ratio of applications closed during 12 and 18 months respectively is not in line with its plans and a substantial amount of taxpayers' finances can also be saved by a more optimal use of resources for translation services.
in writing ‒ it's a technical report with no political context. this appropriation is intended to cover the cost of the european data protection supervisor's staff and administrative expenditure (titles 1 and 2), and operational expenditure relating to the work programme (title 3).
in writing ‒ it's a technical report with no political context. this is an adjustment to the budget for the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators.
in writing ‒ it's a technical report with no political context. this appropriation is intended to cover the cost of the european parliament's contribution to the costs of the european parliament's committee on budgetary control.
in writing ‒ it's a technical report with no political context. this appropriation is intended to cover the cost of the european union agency for fundamental rights' activities in the field of the protection of personal data.
in writing - i did not support the acquittal. the european court of auditors found areas of the operation of the cdt which it identified as high risk, but which were not auditable according to the eca due to the absence or insufficiency of controls. this is definitely not the right approach to using taxpayers' money.
in writing ‒ it's a technical report with no political context. this is an adjustment to the budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training.
in writing ‒ it's a technical report with no political context. this is a budget adjustment for the european police college.
in writing ‒ it's a technical report with no political context. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european schools for the period 2014-2020 (article 21 of the financial regulation).
in writing. ‒ it is a technical report with no political context. this appropriation is intended to cover the cost of the european asylum support office (easo) and the costs of the european asylum support office (easo).
in writing ‒ it's a technical report with no political context. this is an adjustment to the budget for the european banking authority.
in writing ‒ it's a technical report with no political context. this is an adjustment to the budget for the european centre for prevention and control.
in writing ‒ it's a technical report with no political context. this is an adjustment to the budget for the european chemicals agency.
in writing ‒ it's a technical report with no political context. this is an adjustment to the budget for the european environment agency.
in writing ‒ it's a technical report with no political context. this is an adjustment to the budget for the european fisheries control agency.
in writing ‒ it's a technical report with no political context. this is an adjustment to the budget for the european food safety authority.
in writing, ‒ efsa has not been able to correct the fundamental deficiencies identified by the european court of auditors in the past. i did not support the discharge on that basis.
in writing ‒ it's a technical report with no political context. this is a budget adjustment for the european institute for gender equality.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge for the european institute for gender equality. i agree with the position of the group of the european right. this opinion is against granting discharge to parts of the eu budget until the budget is approved as a whole by the court of auditors. moreover, i consider the use of funds by these institutes to date to be largely unilateral.
in writing ‒ it's a technical report with no political context. this appropriation is intended to cover the cost of the european parliament's contribution to the budget of the european schools for the financial year ending in june.
in writing ‒ it's a technical report with no political context. this is an adjustment to the budget for the european institute of innovation and technology.
‒ i did not support the discharge given the serious shortcomings in the spending of the authority's funds, which were found by the european court of auditors for the second year in a row.
in writing ‒ it's a technical report with no political context. this is an adjustment to the budget for the european medicines agency.
in writing ‒ it's a technical report with no political context. this is an adjustment to the budget for the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction.
in writing ‒ it's a technical report with no political context. this is an adjustment to the budget for the european maritime safety agency.
in writing ‒ it's a technical report with no political context. this appropriation is intended to cover the cost of the european union agency for network and information security's staff and administrative expenditure (titles 1 and 2), and operational expenditure relating to the work programme (title 3).
in writing ‒ it's a technical report with no political context. this is an adjustment to the budget for the european railway agency.
‒ the european court of auditors has been criticising the two era headquarters since 2006 for the amount of unnecessary costs and potentially lower efficiency they bring. however, despite years of challenges, this situation persists, even if the existence of two era headquarters does not bring any value to taxpayers. that's why i didn't support the discharge.
in writing ‒ it's a technical report with no political context. this appropriation is intended to cover the cost of the european parliament's contribution to the budget of the european schools for the financial year ending in june 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge for the european securities and markets authority. i agree with the position of the group of the european right. this opinion is against granting discharge to parts of the eu budget until the budget is approved as a whole by the court of auditors.
in writing ‒ it's a technical report with no political context. this is an adjustment to the budget of the european training foundation.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge for the european training foundation. i agree with the position of the group of the european right. this opinion is against granting discharge to parts of the eu budget until the budget is approved as a whole by the court of auditors.
in writing ‒ it's a technical report with no political context. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice.
in the absence of a written reply, the commission shall inform the european parliament and the council of the outcome of the audit. this approach to the use of taxpayers' money is unacceptable and that is why i did not support the discharge of this institution.
in writing ‒ it's a technical report with no political context. this is an adjustment to the budget for the european agency for safety and health at work.
in writing. ‒ this is a technical report with no political context. this is an adjustment to the budget for the euratom supply agency.
‒ euratom must make fundamental changes towards greater transparency in the use of its funds. given the lack of transparency, it is not possible to assess responsibly whether taxpayers' money has been spent appropriately, and i therefore did not support the discharge.
in writing ‒ it's a technical report with no political context. this is a budget adjustment for the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions.
in writing ‒ it's a technical report with no political context. this appropriation is intended to cover the cost of the european union agency for fundamental rights' activities in the field of human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing ‒ it's a technical report with no political context. this is an adjustment to the budget for the european police office.
in writing ‒ it's a technical report with no political context. this appropriation is intended to cover the cost of the european union agency for fundamental rights' staff and administrative expenditure (title 3).
in writing. ‒ i voted against the 2013 discharge for the european union agency for fundamental rights. i agree with the position of the group of the european right. this opinion is against granting discharge to parts of the eu budget until the budget is approved as a whole by the court of auditors. furthermore, i believe that the funds that the fra uses are often used to present one-sided views.
in writing ‒ it's a technical report with no political context. this appropriation is intended to cover the cost of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the 2013 discharge for the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the eu. i agree with the position of the group of the european right. this opinion is against the granting of discharge to individual parts of the eu budget until the budget is approved as a whole by the court of auditors.
in writing ‒ it's a technical report with no political context. this is an adjustment to the budget for the european gnss agency.
in writing ‒ it's a technical report with no political context. this is an adjustment to the budget of the artemis joint undertaking.
in writing ‒ it's a technical report with no political context. this is an adjustment to the budget of the clean sky joint undertaking.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the 2013 discharge for the clean sky joint undertaking. i agree with the position of the group of the european right. this opinion is against the granting of discharge to individual parts of the eu budget until the budget is approved as a whole by the court of auditors.
in writing ‒ it's a technical report with no political context. this is an adjustment to the budget of the eniac joint undertaking.
in writing ‒ it's a technical report with no political context. this appropriation is intended to cover the cost of the studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objectives of the programme and any other expenditure on technical and administrative assistance not involving public authority tasks outsourced by the commission under ad hoc service contracts.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge for the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking for 2013. i agree with the position of the group of the european right. this opinion is against granting discharge to parts of the eu budget until the budget is approved as a whole by the court of auditors.
in writing ‒ it's a technical report with no political context. this appropriation is intended to cover the cost of the studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objectives of the programme and any other expenditure on technical and administrative assistance not involving public authority tasks outsourced by the commission under ad hoc service contracts.
in writing ‒ it's a technical report with no political context. this appropriation is intended to cover the cost of the european parliament's contribution to the costs of the european parliament's meetings of the committee of the regions and the european parliament's committee of the regions.
‒ i did not support the discharge in view of the long-term failure to meet the objectives set within the budgetary constraints set. as the court of auditors points out, iter is spending significantly more money than planned, and yet it is also having trouble meeting the timetable for the planned works.
in writing ‒ it's a technical report with no political context. this is an adjustment to the budget of the sesar joint undertaking.
in writing. ‒ we are setting annual quantitative limits for imports of certain textile products from belarus and north korea. at the same time, this regulation allows for the imposition of surveillance measures in third countries where imports of textile products originating in those countries cause, or are likely to cause, serious injury to the production of like or directly competing products in the european union. the textile sector is a very sensitive sector for the european union and it is therefore important that the rules are clear and provide legal certainty.
in writing. ‒ the textile industry can be considered a sensitive sector in the eu. it is therefore important that the rules governing this sector are clear and understandable to all operators in the sector and that they provide legal certainty. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution. at present, the only countries from which the eu imports textiles and which are not covered by bilateral agreements, protocols or other arrangements are belarus and north korea.
in writing ‒ since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the european parliament's budget has been subject to considerable additional expenditure resulting from new developments such as the establishment of the european parliament as a de facto co-legislator, the accession of croatia and the creation of a parliamentary research service. the european parliament is able to offset a substantial part of this expenditure by the savings resulting from structural and organisational reforms. these will continue to be. significant savings could also be achieved by introducing one workplace instead of the current three.
in writing. ‒ i stress the importance of monitoring and tracking expenditure. good budget management requires not only to monitor revenue but also to focus on savings, particularly in the area of budgetary expenditure. only then can a balanced budget be achieved.
in writing. ‒ i fundamentally disagree with the report submitted. the report points to a number of reasons why the european parliament should have more money instead of looking for further opportunities for inquiry, of which there are still many in the context of the european parliament's functioning.
in writing. ‒ efficient and decisive action is needed to combat misuse, fraud and crime of eu funds. however, i abstained from the vote on the interim report on the creation of the eppo, as the report does not take into account the national parliaments' objections to subsidiarity and sovereignty. this right, granted by the treaty of lisbon, has been exhausted, since the commission has not taken any account of the objections raised by the national parliaments in relation to the eppo. the unresolved issues of subsidiarity and national sovereignty remain unresolved. similarly, i do not see the relationship between the national prosecutor's offices and the national prosecutor general, or between the european prosecutors and the european prosecutor general, as being in order at the present time. the issues of jurisdiction are not clear. thus, while fully agreeing with the aim of taking effective action against those who commit crimes against the financial interests of the union, because of the many unresolved issues in the current interim report and because the national parliaments' concerns were ignored in the process, i could not support the report.
‒ the european public prosecutor's office is to be the only independent authority at european level to ensure the intensification of criminal investigations and prosecutions. the recovery will be improved and the trust of european taxpayers in the european institutions will be increased. the european commission's proposal was adopted in july 2013 and the european parliament has an eminent interest in participating in the legislative process, which we requested from the council on 12 march 2014. this new body of the european union should be composed of one european prosecutor per member state, headed by the chief prosecutor.
in writing ‒ the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office as the independent and sole office for the criminal investigation and prosecution of fraud involving the use of european union funds, which defraud the union and cause damage to taxpayers of up to eur 3 billion per year, is highly desirable. its effective investigative work should also lead to increased and, in particular, effective recovery of funds wrongly used, which is currently low. this may also serve a preventive role against fraud in the management of union funds. the eppo should be able to provide the necessary information to the public prosecutor in order to ensure that the eppo is able to effectively deal with the criminal proceedings before it. the eppo should be able to provide the necessary expertise to the eppo in order to ensure the proper functioning of the eppo.
in writing. ‒ the the criminal investigation and prosecution of fraud involving eu funds has proved to be highly ineffective in recent times. for example, between 2006 and 2013, the rate of prosecution on the basis of judicial recommendations issued by olaf averaged only around 30%. such a low level of recovery can be considered a waste of public funds. i share the view of many of my colleagues in the european parliament that this is an unacceptable situation in practice and that it must be tackled actively. the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office is one such possible solution. the eppo should be able to provide the necessary legal assistance to the national authorities in the event of a dispute arising from the application of this regulation.
in writing. fraud harming the eu's financial interests costs the eu around eur 500 million a year, according to the rapporteur, and there are strong reasons to believe that up to eur 3 billion a year could be at risk from fraud. i think these are arguments which are sufficiently telling that we have to deal with them once and for all within the eu. i am convinced that the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office creates a new, more effective dimension for the fight against criminals suspected of fraud and criminal activity. i would also like to commend the establishment of this institution because it will serve as a bridge between the criminal justice systems of the member states, whose powers end at national borders, and the union institutions, which cannot prosecute. i also voted in favour of the report because the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office fills a gap in the legislation which has so far allowed some criminals to go unpunished for unlawfully evading taxpayers. the european parliament and the council will be consulted on the draft legislative proposal.
in writing. ‒ i support the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office to investigate and prosecute fraud involving eu funds. it is important to create a single and independent authority at european level and to step up prosecution in order to improve recovery and increase taxpayers' trust in the european institutions. at the same time, i would like to stress that the powers of the eppo should not be extended and should only concern european money.
madam president, this is such a sad topic we are discussing now. the destruction of cultural sites in syria and iraq is a real tragedy and we must address it. we can consider this an example of cultural cleansing. this threatens the culture and religious heritage and traditions of the region, and even the wider world, but more tragic is the illegal trading of the artefacts to the eu and other parts of the world. however, behind this cultural devastation there is a much more serious problem: the advance of isis forces in iraq and syria, which has led to the enslavement and murder of thousands of christians and people from other religious and ethnic minorities who have been living there for generations. there are also reports of forced conversions. if we do not stop isis, these atrocities will not stop. i call on the commission to act on two suggestions for appropriate measures to stop the trafficking of artefacts to europe: the first is to establish a team of experts, such as a police corps or other force, to pursue this matter; and the second is to collaborate closely with self—administering communities in iraq and syria, such as the assyrians and turkmens, to stop isis.
madam president, last year i was the head of the eu election observation mission to observe the parliamentary elections in the maldives. the voting was calm and the process was administered in a highly professional manner. yet, on the political side, the supreme court removed two members of the elections commission less than two weeks before the election day. that was a clear violation of the principle of separation of powers and raises serious concern about safeguarding the independence of the elections commission. a year later, convictions against former president nasheed raise many legal ambiguities and concerns. every democratic country must respect the legal process which upholds respect for the rule of law relying on an independent judicial process. this is not the case with mr nasheed. i will definitely support the initiative to send observers to mr nasheed’s trial in case he decides to appeal.
on behalf of the ppe group.– madam president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur for a very good job, very good cooperation and a very balanced report. no doubt albania has made progress in the integration process. we should appreciate that and we should support it. it is also important to send a strong message that confrontational politics are the main obstacle to moving ahead more rapidly in this process. better political dialogue and consensual political solutions involving all political parties to this process is needed. politicians in albania should avoid further political crises. they should understand that albania’s integration process is the common responsibility of both the ruling party and the opposition. the integration process is a chance for albania to progress. but political will is needed for more real and deep reforms, as the rapporteur said, especially when it comes to the rule of law, comprehensive reform of the judiciary and the fight against corruption and organised crime. it is worth noting that in a few weeks the country is going to hold local elections. this will be an important test for the newly-introduced administrative reform, but also for politicians to show their commitment to democratic rules and principles. albania has been a reliable partner for the eu in the region and in external relations. that should be noted and appreciated. it is important to praise it for its constructive role in regional cooperation. in that connection it is worth mentioning that serbia and albania should be encouraged to cultivate their relations, because those are two key countries in the region, and politicians from both sides should feel responsibility for cultivating relations. in the end i believe albania will successfully continue the reform processes and that it will be able to take further steps in the eu integration process, which we are going to support systematically. ( the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– thank you very much for asking another good question. i know what you are talking about. i was the chair of the delegation for five years. somehow, in those five years, i got used to the more robust political dialogue in albania. that is a diplomatic expression; i would say that it was a little bit more than robust. that is why i went into so much detail on the issue of political culture and political dialogue. to answer your question, i think that we need to be more engaged with them, to speak to them more often and to show and explain that having a different opinion is not a sin or a criminal act, but is a normal discussion. the european way of discussing things and differences of opinion is to sit down and use arguments in a normal, civilised way. so more dialogue and more engagement with them.
albania has made significant progress towards eu accession in the last few years. it has already been officially granted candidate country status in june 2014. however, problems remain on the path to european union membership that need to be resolved urgently. this is particularly the case for the implementation of reforms in key priorities and in areas which are preconditions for the opening of accession negotiations with the eu. particular attention should therefore be paid to strengthening the rule of law, strengthening the independence of the judiciary and combating corruption and organised crime. increased active participation of citizens and civil society as such in public life will also clearly contribute to strengthening democracy. to this end, it is also necessary to create a functioning and efficient local government close to the citizens and able to take account of their specific needs at local level. on the other hand, i don't like the imposition and destruction of the traditional natural family in albania, which has always been the pillar of this society.
madam president, first of all thanks to the rapporteur for his very complicated and difficult work on this resolution, and congratulations on its result. the integration of bosnia and herzegovina has been a hard and complicated political challenge over the last years. it is clear that without commitment from all politicians in bosnia and herzegovina and without our permanent attention to the specific situation in the country, this progress will stagnate. let us admit it. this means making all efforts to start a serious reform process this year and making progress on socio-economic issues. also, unblocking the stabilisation and association agreement (saa) should stimulate political impetus for the further integration process. we need to see the rule of law as an unquestionable principle in bosnia and herzegovina. we also need to encourage a mature political culture and condemn nationalistic rhetoric on the constitutional secession of its entities. bosnia and herzegovina’s path to the integration process will be very difficult, but we should stay committed to helping the country to become a member of the european union one day in the future.
for the ecr group commissioner mimica, the european union already gives 0.42% of its gross national income to development aid. this is significantly more than other oecd countries, which give only 0.28%. i do not know who decided that 0.7% is the ideal level for development aid, but it is clear that at a time when the european union is drowning in debt, when member states have tens of billions of invoices to pay, such a target is completely out of reach. moreover, development aid is in many cases just a transfer of money from poor people in rich countries to rich people in poor countries. in 2012, only 46% of development aid actually ended up in poor countries. not to mention waste, like in the congo, where more than half the projects have failed. so it's time to stop playing the big donor and stop having goals that are just unrealistic.
question by mr schlein: how did you arrive at this figure of 0.7%? why is 0.7 the ideal number? why not 0.6 or 0.8? who dug this?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i still don't know where that 0.7% figure came from. why not 0.8 or 0.6%? if we say more and more, we'll say 3%. that doesn't sound like much. but please remember one thing: if we say 0.7% for development aid, 3% for research and development, 2% for defence, 5% for education and what have you, we get more than 100%. i am always amazed at the naivety of this parliament. apparently, people here want to hand out money that they never earned. it's not a problem to hand out other people's money. i would be very interested to know how much of the members' own money they would be willing to pay for development aid. it is completely naive to think that europe, which is up to its neck in debt, should now spend even more money on development aid. it wouldn't be bad to get back to reality. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. no, i haven't read this book, just like i haven't read most of the books out there. but i know that you can only spend what you have. of course, we can ask for more money to be spent on development aid, which the poor people need. but the eu is not in a position to eliminate all the suffering in the world.
i have to admit, i'm feeling very strange in this room right now. i asked to speak to support the position of the european people's party, to support the position of my dear friend pavel svoboda and adam kósa. and now i see that there is no argument in this room between us! all the political groups are unanimous in their support for an early settlement of this issue. and i apologize to the board and the commission, but i see this subject being passed from one table to another like hot potatoes. i would like to join the colleagues who have spoken here and asked the council and the commission to try to settle this matter quickly. let's try to define the terms and clarify this issue as soon as possible, that this is not going to be good! i represent a community in this parliament, a community of half a million people - a hungarian community living in slovakia - with many members who also want this issue resolved. we want them to have access to hungarian texts that appear in hungary. but i can say the same about the germans, the french, the english, the portuguese, the dutch and all the peoples of europe, because there are communities living beyond their borders who demand that they contribute to the texts published in their motherland free of charge. so i would like to ask that we resolve this issue as soon as possible and that the issue be non-profit in nature, not economic in nature and not economic issues.
madam speaker, in the last three days, our ballot boxes have grown to 120 pages. if we were to press them on both sides, we would save 45,000 sheets, or about 15 to 20 feet of paper. maybe someone hears my words, maybe someone will make it right next time.
in writing ‒ the last strategy to support member states in reducing alcohol-related harm was only valid until 2012. excessive alcohol consumption is the second most common cause of lifestyle-related diseases in some member states and alcohol dependence is a risk factor for more than 60 chronic diseases, including alcoholic liver disease, alcoholic pancreatitis and almost all digestive diseases, cancer, diabetes, cardiovascular disease, obesity, fetal alcohol spectrum disorders and neuropsychiatric disorders such as alcohol dependence. the european commission must take a more active approach to this issue and provide advice on reducing alcohol-related problems, as well as supporting the competent authorities in the member states. the european commission must take an active stance on the new eu strategy on alcohol consumption for 2016-2022. member states must urgently step up their efforts to inform citizens about the cultural values of responsible alcohol consumption, the positive health effects of moderate alcohol consumption and its compatibility with a healthy and balanced lifestyle.
in the case of the netherlands, the commission has already adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the european union is a leader in alcohol consumption. this situation is alarming and requires the union, in cooperation with the member states, to prepare a draft strategy to promote the conscious and responsible consumption of alcohol. it is important to focus on the education of adolescents and to establish sufficient awareness of the effects of substances in alcohol on the human body.
in writing. ‒ despite the european commission's indication of the effectiveness of the strategy, the eu alcohol strategy needs further development. it would be a false illusion to try to banish alcohol as a major evil from our lives. alcoholics have been part of european culture for centuries. but its consumption requires attention, self-control. alcohol consumption has a culture, a history and a tradition, but it also poses significant health, public safety and social risks. we need to balance all of these if we want a sustainable european alcohol strategy with real results. i believe that this balance can be achieved by encouraging the consumption of quality alcohol. more economic incentives could be introduced, either by introducing mandatory criteria or by introducing specific taxes. we must instill in the drinking public the principle that quality is more important than quantity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the alcohol strategy. i believe that it is important to combat excessive alcohol consumption. especially should adolescents be kept from drinking alcohol. they need to be educated in this regard. alcoholism has a destructive effect on the development of individuals, families, and thus on society as a whole. i appreciate the fact that alcoholic beverages will be marked with a symbol informing you that alcohol is not suitable for pregnant women.
in writing. i supported the motion for a resolution on the alcohol strategy. statistics show that excessive alcohol consumption is the second most common cause of lifestyle-related diseases in some member states and alcohol dependence is a risk factor for more than 60 chronic diseases, including alcoholic liver diseases, almost all digestive diseases, cancer, diabetes, obesity, heart disease and many neuropsychiatric disorders. excessive alcohol use kills 6% of people every year, with 25% of those dying between the ages of 20 and 39. excessive drinking among young people is becoming commonplace. alcohol use problems are related to many factors, such as socioeconomic status, cultural background, parental and peer pressure, family and school upbringing, revenge, and education. . . . the call to the commission to draw up a new strategy on alcohol consumption must therefore be drawn up in cooperation with the individual member states and must be aimed at preventing, reprimanding and educating young people about the particularly harmful effects of alcohol on young people's bodies, and the social and health consequences for the individual, the family and society.
in writing. ‒ health protection should be the foundation of every society. however, in the fight against alcoholism, i place particular emphasis on prevention, raising awareness of the consequences and risks associated with excessive alcohol consumption, and more coverage of this topic in the education of children, young people and adults.
in writing. ‒ although the number of babies born with fetal alcohol syndrome is increasing every year, the issue has not yet received the attention it deserves. for years, many experts have warned that drinking alcohol during pregnancy can have devastating effects on the unborn child. even a small amount can seriously impair a child's development and manifest itself in physical and mental disabilities. but unlike other disabilities, fetal alcohol syndrome is preventable. i am pleased that the resolution on the alcohol strategy we adopted also touches on this topic and calls on the member states and the commission, as well as all stakeholders, to examine and strengthen awareness-raising campaigns on the harmful effects of alcohol consumption, in particular on pregnant women, and on the impact of alcohol on the unborn child. one effective campaign is certainly the use of pictograms to warn of these risks on alcoholic beverages. i believe that good vengeance can save many children from permanent and serious health damage.
in writing ‒ on the second anniversary of the rana plaza tragedy, one of the worst industrial accidents, we are obliged to reiterate that if better occupational safety and health systems existed, the loss of human life could have been avoided. it is also worth noting that many companies that were likely to have links with the rana plaza factory complex under-compensated their contributions to the trust fund and several companies refused even to disclose the amount they contributed. i therefore welcome the european union-led initiative to implement a pact on occupational safety and health, working conditions, respect for labour rights and promotion of responsible business conduct in bangladesh.
‒ bangladesh is the second largest producer of textile garments, with 85% of textile industry exports, 60% of which go to the european union countries. the production in the textile industry provides a livelihood for 40 million bangladeshis, or 25% of the total population. interest in commodities and a reckless pursuit of profits have led to illegal construction, without regard for safety regulations and standards. it was also responsible for the tragic deaths of 1,100 employees and the injury of 2,500 others in the rana plaza building collapse, which housed mostly clothing companies. despite this tragedy, all the compensation related to the tragedy has not been paid to date, which has ethical implications in addition to the undesirable economic consequences. it is therefore necessary to adopt and put in place measures that allow cooperation and trade only with partners that demonstrate compliance with legal safety requirements and standards for the performance of work while respecting human rights.
in writing. - over 1,100 dead and 2,500 wounded. such was the balance sheet of the tragic collapse of a textile factory in 2013 in bangladesh. the resolution we adopted and which i voted for not only lists the things that have been improved but also draws attention to the problems that persist in the bangladeshi textile industry. on the one hand, there has been a revision of labour law and an increase in the number of labour inspectors. however, there are still no implementing rules for some laws and insufficient inspectors. the situation is not good either in terms of the formation of trade unions, the registration of new unions is often refused and trade unionists are persecuted. i find it unacceptable that two years after the tragedy, there is still a shortfall of three million dollars to compensate families who have lost breadwinners or to compensate workers who have suffered serious injuries. the resolution calls on specific fashion brands that have not yet contributed or have not contributed sufficiently to do so as soon as possible. in the future, it will be crucial for clothing companies themselves to be transparent. to require their subcontractors to ensure that employees not only have decent working conditions but also a fair wage. i am positive that the pressure for change can now be put not only by politicians but also by consumers themselves by engaging in various campaigns.
in writing. ‒ saving lives in an emergency is our moral duty. at the same time, we have a responsibility within the union to prevent or to prevent more and more people from being put at the crossroads of life and death. the european union must therefore take decisive and more effective action against human trafficking networks, and do everything possible to prevent thousands of people from taking such risky journeys. the member states of central europe have experienced an increase in the number of illegal immigrants in recent times. the fact that only a few member states are affected by the movements of illegal immigrants is no longer the case. people are increasingly concerned with immigration policy, to distinguish between genuine refugees and illegal immigrants for a living. the eu urgently needs a solidarity mechanism to tackle the problem, but a system of mandatory quotas imposed centrally, without following local problems and without taking into account local characteristics, is not a solution to the increasingly serious situation. i therefore abstained from voting on the resolution.
in writing ‒ almost every month in the last quarter, the european parliament's parliamentary session begins with a minute's silence for the victims who have lost their lives in the mediterranean sea trying to reach the shores of the european union. many of these refugees are fleeing hunger, violence, war, or a generally bad social situation. our duty is to find solutions that prevent, in particular, the mass exodus of refugees from their countries of origin. some citizens of european union member states are beginning to express their resentment at these mass influxes of refugees. but it's important to remember that they're looking to politicians for solutions, not populist criticism of the refugees themselves.
in writing ‒ the recent tragic events in the mediterranean have prompted a review of the european union's migration and asylum policy. italy has been particularly hard hit by the mass influx of migrants, with 170,000 arriving on its shores last year alone. managing such an influx of asylum seekers imposes a burden on the security and rescue forces, administration and other significant costs associated with providing assistance to these persons. it is necessary for the commission to develop a strategy on migration and asylum policy that responds to events in the mediterranean while encouraging all local and international institutions to put in place political, economic and anti-corruption measures that will stop the unwanted migration of the population.
in writing. ‒ the refugees from africa and the middle east need practical help, not sympathy and pity. from a humanitarian point of view, we are clearly obliged to provide urgent assistance to those who are fighting for their lives in the waters of the mediterranean. at the same time, we must not forget the complex and long-term solutions offered by much more effective development aid. more effective development aid to the countries of origin of migrants means tackling the root of the problem. it allows people to stay to live and work in their home countries, without disrupting family and social ties and without exposing themselves to the often very precarious conditions in the host countries, whose language and culture they do not know. as far as the reception of refugees in the eu is concerned, it is not rational, nor economically and socially viable, to consider refugees from all over the world en masse. we cannot be responsible for the personal decision of individuals who leave their own country with knowledge of the risk. i would remind you that public officials have a primary duty to their own citizens, who must be protected from the negative consequences of endangering their safety, health or even their lives. in conclusion, i strongly support and expect the speedy delivery of humanitarian aid and the concrete follow-up to it.
in writing. the events in syria, libya and other african countries, the result of the conflict, the fact that the mediterranean is burying hundreds of people almost every day, have forced the representatives of the european council to take urgent action to prevent similar situations. increasing the budget is not the panacea and other solutions will have to be found, in particular to prevent organised smuggling gangs from making millions off the misery of the people. i consider the adoption of this resolution to be urgent and it is high time that we make every effort to save the lives of people in danger and to prevent further loss of life at sea. in addition to the tasks that await frontex, i expect measures to be taken to ensure a common european asylum system, and i also expect a review of the overall strategy of cooperation with third countries to tackle the root causes of migration. the situation in the mediterranean leaves no one indifferent, which is why i am pleased that the commission's priorities for 2015 include addressing the issue of migrants, even though it was too late yesterday.
in writing. ‒ to prevent similar tragedies, it is important that the european union not only address the consequences of similar tragedies, but also address their causes. it is essential to better manage development aid and to use it to improve the living standards of the countries from which the largest number of refugees and asylum seekers arrive in the eu. only in this way will we be able to tackle the problems of eu migration and asylum policy in a systematic way.
in writing. ‒ the extension of the current preferences until the end of 2020 in trade between the european union and the western balkan countries is intended to give the beneficiary countries more time to align preferences, both under the basic regulation and under the stabilisation and association agreements. at the same time, the proposal also introduces a human rights clause which allows preferences to be suspended in the event of a serious and systematic violation of fundamental human rights principles by a host country.
in writing. ‒ it is important that bosnia and herzegovina and the eu agree on the adjustment of the interim agreement with the eu after the accession of croatia, in order to avoid the suspension of preferences for bosnia and herzegovina as of 1 january 2016. the european integration process has proved to be the most effective instrument for stability in the region. therefore, a reciprocal agreement between bosnia and herzegovina and the eu can support political and socioeconomic reforms in the western balkans.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from the vote on the motion. while i agree with the extension of the current trade preferences with bosnia and herzegovina, which allow bosnia and herzegovina to export more freely to the european union, i do not agree with the possible suspension of the autonomous trade measures unless bosnia and herzegovina liberalises access to its market as the european union has requested. the lack of liberalisation by bosnia and herzegovina is regrettable as it harms both eu exporters and customers in bosnia and herzegovina. however, the possible withdrawal of the exceptional trade measures by the eu would still lead to harm not only to the exporters of bosnia and herzegovina but also to the eu citizens themselves.
madam president, i support this resolution and i voted in favour. it clearly and openly stands for those who are without doubt being repressed, persecuted, hunted and killed on an everyday basis. what really bothers me is the attitude of some members of this house. they turn a blind eye to the fact that we are speaking about christians who are dying all around the world just because of their faith. no political preference should hinder us from fighting for justice for those who need it right now. just let me say that i am proud to be a christian. just like the students in kenya, i can speak with no fear, which i am very grateful for. however, the students had to pay with their lives. do not make them random victims of violence. call them martyrs, because they died for what they believed.
in writing. ‒ freedom of religion or belief is seriously violated in 82 out of 196 countries. the most persecuted religious minority in the world is christians. the increase in cases of intolerance, violence, or oppression against christians, especially in some parts of the arab world, is alarming. we must therefore support international efforts, in particular against isis, including military action by the international coalition, and welcome the establishment of the delegation for inter-religious and inter-cultural dialogue as part of un peacekeeping missions. freedom of thought, conscience and religion is a fundamental right and therefore our duty is to protect it.
in writing. ‒ freedom of religion is a basic human right of every human being. therefore, every democratic country is obliged to condemn any abuse or suppression of religion for political, economic, national, or other reasons. christians are among the most persecuted religious minorities, as evidenced especially by the situation in africa, where religious intolerance and hatred are the cause of punishable terrorist acts. terrorists themselves use their religion's interpretation to justify their actions. it is necessary and urgent that the commission and the governments of all democratic countries use all available diplomatic means and engage in active dialogue with the governments of countries where religious intolerance and the deliberate destruction of human life are taking place.
in writing. ‒ i cannot recall a plenary session in which we did not observe a minute of silence in memory of the victims of the unfortunate events of the month in question. the massacre of 142 students at garissa university in kenya is of paramount importance, the children were killed because they were christians. it was really a cultural-conscience message. the garissai massacre was an attempt by the attackers to create religious conflict and fear that could strain relations between muslims and christians wherever they live. we must recognize and guard against the principle of collective guilt and hatred, which is a difficult antidote. our sense of helplessness must not poison our diverse world, our inevitably shared future. in the western world, religious freedom is guaranteed, but less than a quarter of christians live in developed democracies. meanwhile, extremists of religious ideologies have set fire to bible teachings and persecuted those who follow them. religious freedom has been declining around the world for years, and we cannot just sit back and watch. from vicious, anti-religious violence to severe discrimination, everything is happening. what we need most and yet have a declining tendency to do is tolerance. i would therefore like to call the attention of all present not to stand by and watch these unacceptable crimes which threaten the most basic human rights! history has shown time and again that tolerance is won by well-directed, determined, and consistent action!
in writing. in recent months, there has been a huge increase in attacks on religious minorities around the world, especially christians, and on a daily basis there are killings, beatings and arrests of christians, especially in certain parts of the arab world. the terrorist attack by the islamist group al-shabab on a university in garissa, in northeastern kenya, which resulted in a 15-hour siege that killed 148 people, most of them christian students, cannot go unnoticed. we are witnessing increasing incidences of intolerance, oppression, and violence against christians in some parts of the arab world, despite the fact that members of different religious groups in the region have lived together in peace for centuries. therefore, supporting the international effort to fight isis and the jihadist advance is essential. the un, the international community and the eu must take a proactive and preventive approach to any violation of freedom of religion or belief, which is enshrined as a fundamental right in the universal declaration of human rights.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that at the beginning of the plenary session, meps and i were able to agree to change the title of the resolution and debate on the murdered students in kenya. the adjective "christian" may seem irrelevant to some, but i am for calling events by their proper name. in this case, it was clearly a massacre of christians. they die for their faith every hour in different parts of the world, and it's our duty to speak up.
in writing. ‒ the desecration and destruction of historical monuments and artifacts by isis/da'esh and other extremist groups in syria and iraq is alarming. they are manifestations of cultural cleansing and a deliberate attempt by extremists to destroy the culture, history and traditions of religious and minority groups. the growth of the illicit trade in cultural and religious artefacts, which often serves as a source of funding for terrorist activities, is also a cause for concern. we therefore support the efforts of the un conventions to protect cultural and religious heritage and encourage more effective use of the interpol database to combat illicit trafficking in cultural goods.
in writing. ‒ the promotion of the preservation of cultural heritage not only in the countries of the union but also in third countries is proclaimed in the treaty on the functioning of the european union itself. the destruction and destruction of cultural monuments in syria and iraq is irreversible damage and all forms of political diplomacy and pressure from all international institutions and organisations must be used to stop this senseless activity.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this motion as isis threatens the cultural and religious heritage and traditions of the region and, indeed, the wider world. behind this there is a much more serious problem: the advance of isis forces in iraq and syria that has led to the enslavement, murder or forced conversion and eviction of thousands of christians and people from other religions and ethnic minorities.
in writing. i supported the motion for a resolution which strongly condemns the modern barbarism of the deliberate destruction of archaeological sites and religious and cultural monuments by extremist groups linked in particular to the islamic state in iraq and syria. while such acts of destruction of cultural and historical monuments and objects are not new or limited to iraq and syria, according to unesco, 'cultural heritage' is an important part of the cultural identity of communities, groups and individuals. therefore, its deliberate destruction may have adverse consequences for human dignity and human rights, highlighting that the looting and smuggling of cultural and religious monuments and objects in iraq and syria by isos members is used to support the financing of isis terrorist activities, resulting in goods of an artistic and cultural nature becoming 'weapons of war'. therefore, the destruction, desecration and sale of cultural heritage must be strongly condemned and, where possible, prevented.
in writing. ‒ the european union also plays the role of arbiter in the field of human rights in third countries. it is therefore worrying that former president mohammed nasheed is facing an unfair trial in the maldives. he was denied access to a lawyer at the start of the trial and was subsequently released four days after the lawyers resigned in protest against what they perceived as a biased trial aimed at destroying the former president's political career. the ongoing and escalating violent campaign of intimidation of government critics, including the media, undermines the guarantee of human rights and violates international obligations under the international covenant on civil and political rights.
in writing. the situation in the maldives has recently raised serious concerns and concerns about the fate of political opponents, but also about the growing tendencies towards an authoritarian regime in the maldives, the persecution of political opposition, intimidation of the media and of civil society, which could undermine the progress made in recent years in the implementation of human rights, democracy and the rule of law in the country. migrant workers are subjected to forced labour, loss of identity and travel documents, withholding or non-payment of wages and debt bondage, and have been threatened with deportation by the maldivian authorities for their protests against discrimination and violence following attacks on migrant workers. also, several women from other countries are trafficked in the maldives, and some maldivian children are reportedly victims of sexual abuse or forced labor. i therefore support the resolution calling on the maldivian government to immediately end political interference in the judicial system, and to immediately end all forms of violence, including violence against peaceful demonstrators, and to stabilise the security situation in the country.
in writing. ‒ the acquisition of candidate country status should stimulate albania to intensify its reform efforts and to take measures to address the challenges of successfully consolidating its democratic transformation. these are in particular key priorities aimed at creating a comprehensive platform to ensure the smooth running of reforms and monitor progress in the areas of public administration, the fight against corruption and organised crime, the strengthening of justice systems, but also in strengthening the protection of human rights. albania deserves particular recognition for its efforts to combat trafficking in human beings, which is a serious problem.
in writing. ‒ the republic of albania is one of the least economically developed countries in europe. nevertheless, it has managed to achieve a certain political stability, which is a prerequisite for its gradual transformation and integration into the european union. albania has a lot of work ahead of it in all areas of political, economic and financial life, including the establishment of fundamental democratic processes in public life, the strengthening of the rule of law and human rights. to this end, the european union must strengthen all forms of cooperation and effective control and surveillance.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from the vote on the resolution on the progress of albania in 2014. this resolution contains many stimulating and concrete proposals which i consider useful. however, it also places undue emphasis on the specific needs of one particular group, namely lgbti people, and exerts undue political pressure to change national legislation, which, even within the eu, falls within the exclusive competence of individual member states. it also calls for anti-discrimination legislation in a form that could lead to discrimination against citizens with different views on the subject in the fight against homophobia.
in writing. albania a small country of less than 3 million people, it has made remarkable progress towards eu accession in recent times. it was therefore granted candidate country status in june 2014. however, there are still areas where albania needs to take major steps these are mainly judicial reform, the fight against corruption and organised crime. the current ongoing polarization of political forces in the country and the persistence of corruption, which also affects the judiciary, may jeopardise albania's integration efforts, thus undermining citizens' trust in a fair judicial system. the business environment and the drive for a functioning market economy have improved in recent times, but the government must continue to address shortcomings in treaty and rule of law enforcement and combat the informal economy. the albanian people will have to make sacrifices and suffer in the process of integration in the various measures taken by the government, but they will surely understand that this is necessary for albania to be an equal member of the eu in the future.
in writing. ‒ i am confident that albania will continue to implement reforms that will bring it closer to the eu. in addition to democratising society, fighting corruption and making public administration more efficient, it is essential to establish a constructive and sustainable political dialogue and to step up albania's cooperation with the european union.
in writing. ‒ bosnia and herzegovina as a potential candidate country needs to be assessed on the basis of performance and the timetable for accession should determine the speed and quality of reforms. the european parliament supports the european integration of bosnia and herzegovina and believes that, inter alia, the enhanced engagement of the european union should focus on socio-economic issues, the rule of law, the fight against corruption, public administration reform, the business environment or civil society, and that the conditionality of accession to the european union should not be changed. it is therefore important to adopt a single and coherent position of the european union and to demonstrate that the integration of bosnia and herzegovina into the european union is a priority for the european union.
in writing. ‒ bosnia and herzegovina is one of the countries with the most difficult and complicated history since the second world war, marked by political, religious, ethnic and territorial conflicts. all this has so far marked its complicated and more difficult implementation of the necessary measures on the road to european integration. it will be very important what positions the newly elected institutions take on these issues and how they seize the opportunity to restore the country's accession to the european union.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on the resolution on the progress of bosnia and herzegovina in 2014. this resolution contains many stimulating and concrete proposals which i consider useful. however, it also places undue emphasis on the specific needs of one particular group, namely lgbti people. the text also calls for anti-discrimination legislation in a form that could lead to discrimination against citizens with different views on the subject in the fight against homophobia.
in writing. bosnia and herzegovina has expressed its interest in european integration by adopting a written commitment, which was endorsed by the parliamentary assembly of bosnia and herzegovina on 23 february 2015. it is a very good path, although with the ongoing problems in bosnia and herzegovina, it will be a long one. the complex and inefficient structure of the authorities, the lack of cooperation and coordination among the political leaders, corruption, civil unrest, high unemployment and, last but not least, the nationalist and separatist rhetoric of the political leaders polarize the society in the state and do not contribute to stability. the government of bosnia and herzegovina needs to be very precise in preparing the country's social and economic reforms, the labour market reform to address the high unemployment rate, the establishment of an effective judicial system, the priority to fight corruption, because it is the latter that controls key sectors such as health, education and public administration. the number of problems is much greater, but if bosnia and herzegovina is serious about european integration, i believe we are all ready to help and advise them. by all, i mean the commission, meps and certainly the individual member states.
in writing. ‒ it is important that bosnia and herzegovina continue to push for reforms in the economic, political and legislative fields. progress will result in moving closer to integration into european structures. the eu's economic cooperation with bosnia and herzegovina, in particular in trade and trade-related matters, can contribute to the consolidation of economic relations in the country and also ensure development and economic growth.
in writing. ‒ the european investment bank spent eur 9.1 billion in 2013 to support skills and job creation for young people. the projects selected and financed by the eib should offer an opportunity not only to restore jobs and growth but also to tackle issues such as climate change, energy independence or rising inequalities. the eib financing could make a decisive contribution to job creation and growth. we welcome the support provided to smes in areas of high unemployment and the fact that in this context the eib increased its financing by 50% compared to 2012.
in writing. i consider the european investment bank to be a flexible and efficient source of financing for projects in the eu member states. i am pleased that the eib is playing an active role in financing long-term investment projects in my home country of slovakia. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the eib representatives for the fact that, thanks to its loans to slovakia since 1992, we have been able to ensure sustainable growth and employment. it is true, and it must be said frankly, that despite all the positives, the eib did not manage to fulfil all the tasks requested in 2013. in my speech, i would like to highlight in particular the financing of smes, which fell by up to 35% between 2008 and 2013, the disparity in lending between countries, the low level of transparency, and in particular the significant decline in public and private investment. on the contrary, i appreciate that the eib spent eur 9,1 billion in 2013 to promote skills and job creation for young people, a capital increase of eur 10 billion in 2013 and the high quality of the eib's assets. at the same time, i expect the measures presented in the resolution to ensure real progress by the eib towards the eu 2020 objectives.
in writing. ‒ job creation and economic growth are the main objectives of the ambitious investment plan for europe. it is important to mobilise private and public investment and the creation of a european fund for strategic investments is intended to help achieve this. in this respect, i would like to underline the important role played by the european investment bank in the creation of this fund. i call for investment projects to take into account the priority areas of energy, the digital single market and the focus of projects on smes.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the adoption of this report because i strongly disagree with many of its provisions. this report calls in various ways for the european investment bank to redistribute more, with the aim of once again supporting growth and employment and, paradoxically, of enhancing competitiveness. as if that were not enough, the report also calls for projects with 'european added value' to be given priority, and such abstract objectives can justify virtually any reallocation.
in writing. ‒ the theme of expo 2015 in milan: enjoying the planet, energy for life is important to set goals for the right to adequate, healthy, sustainable and conscious food consumption. the european union pavilion at expo 2015 aims to raise awareness of the need to tackle problems throughout the food chain, including food waste, malnutrition, malnutrition and obesity. only an appropriate institutional, regulatory and monitoring framework can foster an environment for the development of strong, fair and accessible agricultural market systems.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on expo 2015 in milan, as i consider it necessary to have a debate on improving food production and distribution, on combating food waste, as well as on the problem of food shortages, malnutrition and poor nutrition and on achieving a balance between supply and consumption. in this resolution i therefore also voted in favour of the amendment to ensure that genetic engineering techniques are not used in soil research under any circumstances.
in writing. from 1 may to 30 october 2015, the expo 2015 world fair in milan will be an opportunity to present the eu's positions on the serious issues of fighting food waste, from agriculture as a key sector of the eu economy to addressing food security and using agricultural production to eliminate world hunger. today, some 870 million people suffer from malnutrition and hunger, while some 2.8 million die each year from health problems related to poor nutrition, obesity, and overweight. the european commission estimates that up to 30% of food is lost or wasted worldwide, and unless effective action is taken, this amount is growing enormously each year. the eu pavilion at expo 2015 should raise awareness of the need to address pressing issues throughout the food chain, including the sustainability of food production, distribution and consumption, in order to tackle food waste and combat malnutrition, malnutrition and obesity.
in writing. ‒ the economic development of society goes hand in hand with environmental development. it is therefore important that we not only focus on economic factors but also contribute to environmental development. the theme of expo milano 2015 'feeding the planet, energy for life' provides impetus to the discussion on improving food production and distribution, on combating food waste, on promoting and developing already existing positive approaches to tackling food shortages, malnutrition and poor nutrition, and on achieving a balance between supply and consumption. all of these issues concern us, and sustainable solutions must be found.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the report because i am convinced that it is full of intentions that can lead to the exact opposite of the intended objectives. for example, it is highlighting the common agricultural policy in addressing food security, sustainability of the agricultural sector, a better environment and so on. however, the fact that the eu's common agricultural policy is in direct contradiction to these objectives, and in particular that it is labelled as an instrument to increase the sustainability of agriculture, is absurd given its functioning.
in writing. ‒ expo 2015 is about to open its doors and is expected to welcome more than 20 million visitors. with the media following the exhibits for the next six months, the whole world will be able to see the innovation, the technology and the new possibilities to feed and save our planet. it is unthinkable that in the 21st century we can fight hunger and poverty while throwing away an average of 30% of our food every year. expo 2015 can play an important role in consumer education, but i believe it also inspires many countries to change their legislation. governments, food chains, and even ordinary households should be aware every day that by 2050, we will need 70% more food reserves than we do today.
in writing. ‒ the we condemn the continuing and increasingly brutal violence in nigeria, including the use of children as suicide bombers. it is regrettable that the international community has so far failed to take any steps to provide useful support to the nigerian people in their fight against the rising violence and in addressing social and economic problems. we must demand a thorough investigation into all allegations of human rights violations, including extrajudicial killings, torture or abuse in connection with extortion. we demand the unconditional release of the more than 200 girls kidnapped by boko haram from a government school in chibok city in april 2014. we call on the nigerian government to work together to build a strong and stable coalition to fight the threat of boko haram.
in writing. ‒ the the political situation in nigeria is increasing economic and social tensions in the country and at the same time poses a threat to the security of the entire west african continent. nigeria is also one of the largest economies in africa. the european union has provided 700 million euros to the country until 2013, almost a third of it to fight poverty and consolidate peace and stability. the nigerian government must urgently, with the help of international organisations and institutions, put an end to the activities of an islamist terrorist organisation which is deliberately exterminating christians and exploiting people of their faith for political ends. it should be emphasized that the penetration of the activities of this terrorist organization into other countries also poses a danger to the countries of the european union.
in writing. ‒ nigeria was once famous for having a peaceful coexistence between a 40% christian and 60% muslim population, and religious tolerance was a daily reality. then, a few years ago, the terrorist organization boko haram broke in, and in addition to overthrowing the government, it also wanted to rid the country of christians. a few years ago, no one would have believed that they would actually cause such chaos and tragedy in the country. the top christian church leaders declared the other day that what was happening was beyond the limits of human endurance. i believe that europe has a special responsibility to help persecuted christians around the world. as the cradle of christianity in europe, we have a religious, cultural bond with these people that increases our responsibility to help. that's why i urge you to find ways to help those who are persecuted and to embrace those who are already persecuted. it is our moral duty to actively and with all our resources help those in need.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this motion. the idea behind the motion is good but unfortunately it had mistaken elements in it – calling, for example, for sexual and reproductive rights. therefore i could not vote in favour.
in writing. nigeria is the largest economy on the african continent and a major trading partner of the eu, so the recent brutal acts in northern nigeria cannot leave us indifferent. between 2009 and 2013, the eu provided around eur 700 million to nigeria to consolidate peace and stability, fight poverty and create new jobs for young people. recently, peace and stability in nigeria have been increasingly threatened by the militant islamist group boko haram, which has been wreaking havoc since 2009 with a series of bombings, murders and kidnappings, seeking to impose a strict form of sharia law, overthrow the government and establish an islamic state. the continuing and escalating violence in nigeria must be strongly condemned and a concerted international effort must be focused on ending the bloodshed. the nigerian government, with the support of the eu, but also with the support of the international community, must take measures to combat the threat posed by boko haram, but these measures must be in accordance with international law.
in writing. ‒ the situation in nigeria cannot be summed up in a few lines or pages. last year alone, the terrorist organization boko haram killed over 4,000 people and kidnapped 900. they're not just numbers, but behind each number is the destiny of a particular person. tragedy does not just strike individuals; entire families suffer. so these are stories of families who have their sons and daughters abducted to become child soldiers. women and girls are turned into sex slaves. nigeria's presidential election could be a good sign of change. political leaders have a unique opportunity to begin addressing the country's deep-rooted social and economic problems, but at the same time they must ensure that their military is equipped with all available means. changes in attitudes affect the whole region. neighboring countries can no longer pretend that boko haram doesn't affect them. in march 2015, the organisation declared an alliance with the islamic state.
in writing. the case of nadezhda savchenko i support the resolution calling on russia to release all illegally detained citizens of ukraine, including the member of the verkhovna rada and the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe, nadezhda savchenko. he has been involved in the repression of the ukrainian people and the repression of the population of ukraine. i consider the holding of nade savchenko as a prisoner of war in a russian prison to be a violation of the geneva convention. i have long advocated for the immediate release of savchenko through my activities on the european parliament's floor, the hunger strike we held with other colleagues in the ep, and my participation in events in support of nada and ukrainian independence.
author. i come from a country where freedom of speech and freedom of assembly were taboo for decades. under the communist regime, even such speech was suppressed and punished. i'm glad that's not the case today. the mark of a democratic country is that its citizens are guaranteed these rights. the progress algeria has made on its path to democracy in recent years is undeniable. but respect for the right to freedom of assembly remains, in my view, his weak point. the news of the recent imprisonment of human rights activists who participated in a peaceful demonstration has alarmed me. i hope that algeria, a country with which i have a very close relationship, having grown up there, will respond to our resolution not only by immediately releasing the activists mentioned, but also by guaranteeing in the future, in accordance with its constitution, fair trials and the guarantee of the right to peaceful assembly.
in writing. although the european union has been trying to regulate the tobacco industry since the early 1990's, it must be said that the number of smokers in europe is decreasing only very slowly. it's about 1 to 2% a year. i therefore welcome the proposal for a new directive by the european commission, as i believe that we must strive to reduce smoking, especially among young people, and meet the target of halving the number of young smokers by 2025. the vast majority of smokers start smoking at a very young age 70% before the age of 18 and 94% before the age of 25, according to a eurobarometer survey. it is truly alarming that tobacco use leads to approximately 700 000 preventable deaths per year in the european union. on the other hand, there are the economic aspects of the tobacco industry curb for the member states of the european union in the form of reduced revenues to the national budget from the tax on the sale of tobacco products and the loss of some 150 000 jobs in the european union and a significant increase in the illicit trade in tobacco products. but i also see positive effects, which should bring, for example, savings of a considerable amount in health care.
last week, sándor lámfalussy, who many in this room know as alexander lámfalussy, and rightly considered the father of the euro, passed away. he was a hungarian, one of the important personalities that the hungarian nation gave to the democratic world. born in 1929 in kaposvár, hungary, he emigrated in 1949 from the communist dictatorship. he graduated in economics from the catholic university of leuven in 1953, after which he was a manager in several major banks. from 1994 to 1997, he was the first president of the european monetary institute (emi), based in frankfurt. under his leadership, the institute prepared the transition to the euro and coordinated the monetary policies of the eu member states. he was the recipient of many awards, and after my lecture at the hungarian academy of sciences in budapest 10 years ago, he came to me, put his hand on my shoulder and said, "hold on, my son, you're going to slovakia too!" which meant that we were on the horizon of his morally based worldview, not hungarians living in hungary.
on the floor of this parliament we regularly address the problems caused by the overuse of antibiotics. however, i would like to draw attention to the part of the report presented by my colleague mr pedicini which talks about the increased incidence of infections in health facilities caused by the cuts in cleaning costs. less cleaning staff, especially in hospitals, directly translates into less patient safety. any compromise that hospital management makes in the area of cleanliness and hygiene has the direct effect of increasing the number of microbial infections. the result is unnecessary complications, often with serious consequences for the health and life of the patient. the cost of addressing these complications far exceeds the cost of maintaining the highest standards of cleanliness and hygiene.
i cannot support the inta committee's position. if i compare the higher administrative burden of those european companies that process minerals and metals with the suffering of millions of people, i have nothing to think about. last friday, 28 children in nigeria died from poisoning from water contaminated by illegal gold mining. the kids weren't even five years old. five years ago, more than 400 children died in the same area from lead poisoning. certification should be compulsory and cover the entire supply chain from extraction companies to the final processor and should cover all raw materials. yesterday we talked about financing development aid. tomorrow we will discuss the refugees on the shores of europe, fleeing war, violence and poverty. if we cannot adopt legislation that is really effective, we will be boasting in vain that the european union is the largest donor of development policy.
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. i will certainly approach this vote responsibly. the negotiations are still ongoing and i will consider my vote on the basis of the outcome of these negotiations.
we're going to vote on mr. uspaskic's immunity in the case. it's just a matter of opinion. i think this is a very important thing. a member of the european parliament may not be punished for any of his or her statements. that's what immunity is for.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the swiss confederation, since the subject of the proposal was a clear and simple codification of the existing texts without altering their substance.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal as it was only a codification of the legislation currently in force.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the european convention on the legal protection of services based on or consisting of conditional access, because before the adoption of this resolution, european non-eu states could provide a safe haven for the development or distribution of hacking devices for these services.
in writing. - i supported the motion. in fact, in my view, as a defender of the protection of private property, it is not right that it should be possible to fraudulently obtain free access to paid services in the creation of which the providers of those services have invested a large amount of their own resources.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the motion because i do not think that the waiver of parliamentary immunity of viktor uspaskich is right. indeed, 'contempt of court' is also a matter of freedom of expression, and it is this that parliamentary immunity should protect.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion because i agree that the role of jérôme lavrilleux in the related false invoicing system should be investigated. members' immunity should not serve to conceal or impede the investigation of fraudulent offences.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion because i do not agree that parliamentary immunity is used to cover up possible violent crimes.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion because, as the report on the motion states, the alleged offence clearly has no connection with the office of member of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i support closer cooperation between the european parliament and the european economic and social committee. through these consultations, the ep obtains expert advice through opinions on proposed eu legislation not only from employers but also from workers and other groups of the population. this cooperation allows us, the politicians, to better connect with civil society organisations in our countries. i consider the consultation on the use of the potential of the lisbon treaty to be very useful, as it can help us to improve the functioning of the eu as a whole.
in writing. ‒ such consultation is justified if we want to make the european union work more efficiently and its institutions work together more effectively. i therefore fully support the intensification of the european parliament's cooperation with the european economic and social committee.
in writing. ‒ i support closer cooperation between the european parliament and the committee of the regions. through these consultations, the ep obtains expert advice from local and regional authorities in the eu through opinions on proposed eu legislation. this cooperation allows us, the politicians, to better connect with the organisations operating in our countries. i consider the consultation on the use of the potential of the lisbon treaty to be very useful, as it can help us to improve the functioning of the eu as a whole.
in writing. ‒ consultation of the european parliament with the committee of the regions can help to make the european union work more efficiently and its institutions work together more effectively. that's why i support it.
in writing. ‒ the the alleged manipulation of libor or foreign exchange benchmarks, as well as the alleged manipulation of other indices, has led to the amendment of market abuse legislation to criminalise such practices. three objectives are pursued. the first is to strengthen the governance systems and rules for the relevant benchmarks. the second is to enhance transparency by making information available to users of benchmarks. and third is the application of requirements to manage and govern the supply of a wide variety of benchmarks.
in writing. ‒ the the correct interpretation and use of benchmarks allows the internal market to function effectively. for their consistent and correct application, it is essential that they are not affected by conflicts of interest, that they reflect the economic reality they are intended to measure and that they are used in an appropriate manner. effective control mechanisms should be put in place to prevent their misuse and to highlight the illegality and criminality of such conduct. administrators of benchmarks shall be required to put in place measures and mechanisms to enhance confidence in the integrity of benchmarks and to prevent any manipulation of benchmarks.
there is an important link between development aid financing and the discussion of common european measures on migration and asylum policy. the poverty of developing countries is directly linked to high levels of corruption and corporate tax evasion. i support the view that taxes should be paid where value is obtained or created. the amount of tax is a matter for the sovereign state to decide, but the dumping of profits into tax havens is one of the main reasons for the persistence of poverty in many countries of the world. people risk their lives to escape war and poverty. the pressure on the eu's southern border will only be allowed to continue if war is replaced by peace and poverty by prosperity. but i did not support the report because effective development aid and common action by member states to combat tax evasion and corruption are the conditions for eradicating poverty, not funding reproductive rights and abortion.
in writing. ‒ the european union and other developed countries have an undeniable moral obligation to ensure climate finance to reach the goal of jointly mobilising usd 100 billion per year by 2020. in addition, within the framework of the global partnership, there is also the need for new development goals and the related financial framework, which is aimed in particular at eradicating poverty and respecting human rights and gender equality. reducing and eradicating poverty is also a key development objective of the european union. therefore, oda should also be prioritised for basic social services and public services that are provided by the private sector with less efficiency. these include, for example, basic education, social security networks, health care, but also water and energy supply.
in writing. ‒ the poverty of 1.5 billion people, living mainly in developing countries and in politically and economically unstable countries, means that these people are denied the basic conditions for a dignified life and the satisfaction of the most basic human needs. the poor suffer from a lack of food, safe drinking water, and inadequate access to health care and education. this ultimately causes their social exclusion from the society in which they live. however, poverty is also a strong motivation for population migration, as illustrated by the current situation in the south of europe. it is undeniable that the poor have a right to help. but the solution to poverty as a global problem must also be sought in the countries where it exists. these countries have the material potential to tackle poverty. the eu's role as a leader in supporting developing countries must therefore also focus on the political and diplomatic level, and not just on economic and financial aid.
in writing. i see eu development aid as an investment that has become a very good instrument for financing the development of less developed countries. i particularly appreciate that in supporting developing countries, this represents 60% of global official development assistance, placing the eu clearly among the largest and most generous aid donors in the world. the eu and its member states should maintain their position as the main donors of development aid, thus confirming the eu's unwavering commitment and responsibility for the further development of the least developed countries. i also support the resolution because it sends important messages that can help ensure inclusive growth and sustainable development in partner countries. i am convinced that this report will send a good signal to the citizens of europe and become a key factor in eradicating poverty and inequality. as not all developed countries are meeting their commitment to provide 0.7% of gross national income for official development assistance, i expect that in the next period development assistance will improve delivery and ensure higher quality.
in writing. ‒ the eu is the world's largest donor of development aid. as the eu accounts for almost 60% of global official development assistance, it is important that the commission provides clear and transparent data on the share of eu budgetary resources allocated to development assistance. in addition, the commission should seek to increase the visibility of eu aid in developing countries and therefore appropriate and targeted communication and information tools should be developed to enhance the visibility of eu development aid.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the proposal because i fundamentally disagree with the call for member states to meet the target of allocating 0.7% of their gross national income to development aid. european union development aid is significantly less effective than development aid from eu member states and lacks a basic level of self-reflection, as it is increasing despite its constant failures.
in writing. ‒ there is no doubt that health systems in individual member states have undergone significant reforms in recent years and governments are striving to provide citizens with better healthcare. however, 8-12% of patients hospitalised in the european union experienced adverse events during the provision of healthcare. approximately 4.1 million patients in the european union contract hospital-acquired infections each year and at least 37 000 die as a result, which is a very alarming figure. it is very unfortunate that we have reached a situation where it is becoming increasingly clear that the level of care and safety for patients is often limited by various austerity measures and horizontal cuts, which is unacceptable because the protection of human life and health must be the absolute priority and all economic indicators must be sidelined in this case. healthcare policies should not be subject to austerity measures and cuts, and relevant institutions should provide patients with the highest possible level of safety and protection of human life.
in writing. ‒ the antimicrobial resistance poses a serious threat to humanity and has a negative impact on public health. it endangers the lives and health of people and animals, and it increases the demand for health funding. the bulk use of medicines, especially antibiotics, has the effect of reducing their effectiveness, causing the spread of microbes and bacteria. in order to slow down the development and limit the spread of bacteria containing antimicrobial resistance genes, it is necessary that the commission, in cooperation with the member states and the professional bodies, take all measures to raise awareness among the public and among healthcare professionals themselves. measures must aim at the responsible and correct use of antimicrobials, which should lead to a reduction of the risks to human health and at the same time to a positive impact on public finances.
in writing. ‒ every year, 4.1 million patients are infected in healthcare across europe and 37 000 unfortunately die. together with the number of problems caused by errors in hospitals, this accounts for 8-12% of patients treated in the eu. it is sad that only a fraction of member states have implemented the council's proposals, despite the fact that 30 to 40% of problems are caused by errors and 20 to 30% of infections could have been prevented. we have to change that. i believe it is important that member states implement the council's innovations, especially in the areas of patient rights, infection prevention and training of health workers. it is essential to continue work on the establishment of a central european classification system and on european guidelines in the field of patient safety. safe healthcare is the foundation of a well-functioning health system and every effort should be made to ensure that safety is the foundation of public health structures in the union.
in writing. ‒ it is estimated that by 2050, 10 million people worldwide will die each year as a result of the emergence of new superbugs resistant to all antibiotics. the emergency situation requires adequate solutions. that is why i voted for the resolution on safer healthcare in europe.
in writing. i supported the report on safer healthcare because i consider patient safety and the fight against drug resistance to be a very important role for the eu as a whole and for the member states individually. patient safety, as well as the right of the patient not to suffer harm as a result of the provision of healthcare, must be a decisive element in the quality of healthcare provision. according to available data, up to 8-12% of eu hospitalized patients will suffer an injury or adverse event, including healthcare-associated infections, many of which could have been prevented. and that's three million people with inaccurate and not always up-to-date data collections from health care providers. progress in patient safety is uneven across member states. i am glad that slovakia is in the group of countries with safer health care at 4 13%. paradoxically, many patients are also endangered by the doctors themselves, who prescribe antibiotics for many diseases (e.g. viral diseases, for which antibiotics have no effect), thus making patients resistant to common antimicrobials. the self-medication of patients with antibiotics should also be strictly prohibited, and this should be prevented by vigorous reprisals against medical personnel, the media and possibly a pan-european awareness campaign.
in writing. ‒ ensuring better healthcare and increasing patient safety is a necessary step to improve the health system. in addition, it is necessary to make more efficient use of funds, as well as to ensure a more responsible use of existing treatments and to encourage innovation.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal because it calls in particular for deeper cooperation between member states in the field of healthcare and the dissemination of best practices in its implementation, which can help.
in writing. ‒ small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) are the backbone of the european economy, an important driver of economic growth and job creation. the sectors involved in green growth offer significant economic and ecological benefits to smes in the union, and these benefits could increase in the coming years. this economic growth may be accompanied by environmental sustainability, which is one of the key challenges of the coming decades. the green economy holds a lot of potential for smes, but at the moment these opportunities are only partially exploited. there is still a long way to go to make smes' production processes, business practices and services greener. the eu institutions and national decision-makers need to find a solution that not only reduces the burden on smes, but also effectively promotes the creation of greener businesses with equal opportunities in all member states. specific initiatives are needed to encourage smes at member state level to extend the benefits of green growth. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ to cope with the consequences of the global economic and financial crisis, the european union must support small and medium-sized enterprises in every possible way, since they are the most active part of the european economy and create countless jobs. the green growth sector has the potential to grow continuously and actively in the coming years, and it is therefore important that we fully realise the potential of the green economy. smes must be actively involved in the greening of the products they produce, as well as of production processes, business practices and services. the european commission should encourage this effort in every possible way, recognising the benefits of green growth. the european commission should actively contribute to the simplification of the differences in the national systems of the member states, thus moving towards a more uniform set of measures. it is therefore clear from recent developments that there is room for a rather significant ecological potential, and it is very important that we are able to exploit this potential to the maximum extent possible and that it benefits smes across the european union.
in writing. ‒ smes account for around 99% of all european businesses and provide some 75 million jobs, making them a fundamental pillar of the european union's economy. to ensure their sustainable and inclusive growth, it is essential to promote, in a targeted and conscious manner, the increasing implementation of a green economy that uses resources efficiently. it is necessary for member states, in cooperation with the european commission, to seek tools to support the business and legal environment in terms of access to project financing, public procurement and other public policy tools that enable smes to take advantage of environmental challenges for the benefit of economic growth.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on green growth opportunities for smes. i agree with the ecr's position that the green growth sector provides major economic and environmental benefits to smes in the eu and is expected to grow significantly in the coming years, based on the fact that this economic growth can be linked to environmental sustainability. i consider smes to be an important driver of economic growth and job creation in all eu countries.
in writing. smes form the backbone of the european economy, accounting for around 99% of all european enterprises and providing some 75 million jobs. supporting smes at eu level, but also at member state level, to have easier access to finance is therefore essential for the adoption of greener technologies and for investments in sustainable business practices. it is important that local and regional authorities provide smes with adequate information and analyses of production sectors and structures within which smes can progress with green growth. on the eu institutions' side, i consider it important to remove the obstacles that prevent the mobilisation of funds, while minimising the administrative burden for smes. the eu programmes are not currently making a significant contribution to green innovation and the circular economy, so the commission needs to better target funding from cosme and horizon 2020 programmes to the development of green and innovative solutions by smes.
in writing. ‒ to ensure the sustainability and competitiveness of european economies, it is important to focus on resource efficiency and energy efficiency. i would like to stress that smes account for approximately 99% of all european enterprises and employ some 75 million workers. to create a sustainable environment, it is necessary to simplify access to finance for businesses, to support people in setting up businesses, to simplify the rules for entrepreneurship and to reduce the administrative burden. one tool that can motivate people to start a business is the adoption of the single-member company directive, which allows companies to be set up in the eu through online registration and with a minimum capital of eur 1. the european union should take all steps to ensure that this directive is adopted.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the proposal because i do not agree with the visions and proposals of the report submitted. the report presented shows a fundamental misunderstanding of how the market works, how economic growth and job creation are generated. the report thus points out how the redistribution of taxpayers' money will help growth or job creation, but does not show that the jobs and growth thus achieved are achieved only at the expense of potentially even more growth and employment, or at the expense of creating more sustainable growth and employment.
the reporter. today's debate on the common security and defence policy (csdp) comes at a time of unprecedented challenges and risks to our defence and security. today, more than ever, we can feel the effects of conflict and instability in the immediate vicinity of our borders. we are discussing this at a time that is not the most favorable for the union. furthermore, we know that defence and security spending is limited in the eu in the long run. we therefore need to look at how we can manage these resources more efficiently, more flexibly, but also more transparently. we need to start taking a serious look at the vision of european defence by improving the coordination of our military and civilian missions, opening up the question of more flexible funding procedures and improving the set-up of the structures responsible for broadcasting and operating our missions. in this context, i also call on you, madam high representative, and the representatives of the member states, to allow full use to be made of the relevant part of the lisbon treaty, in particular article 44 on the delegation of tasks to a group of member states and article 46 on permanent structured cooperation. as regards savings and efficiency improvements, i would like to welcome the fact that some of the financial procedures relating to civilian missions have been shortened. it was also possible to identify measures that would lead to savings. however, many situations require rapid deployment and operationality of missions, requiring financial flexibility and efficiency. there are still problems. the improvement could be facilitated by a shared service centre together with an integrated resource management system. where possible, we should also extend the operation of the csdp permanent warehouse and allow existing missions to make full use of it. another challenge is greater coherence and complementarity in the functioning of civilian and military missions and operations. we need to improve coordination in the areas of logistics, transport, health and mission security. at the same time, we should pay more attention to the coordination and interconnection of areas such as industry, the common market, research and development. as regards the financing of military operations through the athena mechanism, it is essential that the philosophy of its operation be gradually changed. we need to move towards a better distribution of the financial burden between member states and certainly to ensure the long-term financing of military operations. it is becoming increasingly problematic to deploy missions quickly and to operate them effectively. in order to improve their financing, we must start to address the issue of opening athens to contributions from third countries and international organisations. the next european council on security should also be used to reform and improve the configuration of the financial mechanisms relating to missions and operations. in conclusion, madam high representative, the csdp is an increasingly pressing issue. you need to have it under your control and ensure better coordination between the member states, the european institutions and organisations such as nato. as you know, we simply cannot afford to ignore the key issues of european defence and security at the moment.
in writing. the eu armed forces, despite joint participation in the various contingents, are organised on a strictly national basis. if countries cooperated more closely at european level on a common security and defence policy, they would save between 26 and 130 billion euros a year. the higher costs result from the lack of a transnational integrated defence procurement market, for which the common market does not apply. the existence of 28 fragmented national markets, each regulated separately, impedes competition and the results are a wasted opportunity for administrative economies of scale for industry and manufacturing. there is a need to improve transparency and openness in the defence market and to improve synergies between civil and military research and development. the european union is also committed to the development of a common defence policy.
i am very surprised in this debate by the statement of mr weber of the epp, who tried to justify the undemocratic practices of mr orbán by saying that hungary has economic growth. that's the same as saying that china's massive human rights violations are justifiable because china has high economic growth. i think this is absurd. during the whole of mr orbán's government, from the point of view of the european union, we have seen the abuse of the constitutional majority, very little has been said about the abuse of minorities in neighbouring countries to destabilise situations. i think he very clearly agreed with russian president putin, who has abused minorities to the point of using minorities militarily against a neighbouring state. so it is quite clear that mr. orbán has had undemocratic tendencies from the beginning and if it were not for the european union's restrictions, today viktor orbán rules a despotic... the speaker was interrupted by the chairman.
in writing. we've been discussing the situation in hungary several times over the last period. as early as june 2011, we drew attention to the problematic wording of the hungarian constitution, which spoke of hungary's responsibility for all hungarians, of a single hungarian nation, of collective rights, of self-government abroad on an ethnic basis, of the recognition of the right to vote for foreign hungarians. the government of viktor orbán has amended the constitution several times, taking over the rights of its own citizens with provisions on students, the homeless, restrictions on freedom of speech, discrimination against churches and, above all, restrictions on the independence of the judiciary. today, in the presence of hungarian prime minister viktor orbán, we are again discussing the situation in hungary in connection with his statement on the possible reintroduction of the death penalty in the country and the public consultation on immigration. i want to make very clear my position against the introduction of the death penalty in any eu country. let judicial errors in many states be a warning sign for the reintroduction of the death penalty. i consider the remarks of the prime minister of hungary as litmus paper and a survey of the electoral preferences of his constituents in hungary. but a serious issue such as the introduction of the death penalty is undoubtedly should not be a poll of preferences or a distraction from social and financial problems.
on behalf of the ppe group. unfortunately, in the new member states, we are seeing more and more bankrupt big companies who are treading people down without responsibility, just for profit. all this while their actions are legal, just not moral. in my country, slovakia, for example, this is the case of the váhostav company, in which the big businessman, with the help of the current ruling party, has let down thousands of people, hundreds of entrepreneurs, and plunged them into uncertainty and misery. i am very pleased to welcome the new rules on insolvency proceedings. the four freedoms of the union can be exploited by skilled fraudsters to build cross-border family networks. the only way to fight fraud is to work together and eliminate the opportunities that corporate executives can exploit to the detriment of their small creditors and subcontractors.
for the ppe group. today we are not talking about the maternity leave directive, but about a document which deals with the health and employment protection of pregnant and breastfeeding women. today, member states must grant women 14 weeks of leave, two of which are compulsory. at the same time, the woman retains her job and must receive a salary or allowance at least equal to the sickness benefit. this is guaranteed by the 1992 directive, which is still in force today. in 2008, the commission prepared a proposal to amend this directive. however, parliament adopted a position at first reading on which the european council refuses to negotiate. he has made the directive on women's health and safety at work a tool for promoting a kind of european family policy in the interests of gender equality. the council was blocked and the women were once again the victims of political ambition. i'm in favor of extending maternity leave to 18 weeks. six weeks of that is mandatory, because that's what the world health organization requires. i'm in favor of a woman who's supposed to be home for six weeks getting paid in full for that period. i am all the more disappointed to see that the motion for a resolution which should have asked the council to return to the negotiations repeats the same mistake. in a text which should have been limited to protecting the health and improving the working conditions of pregnant women, we want to dictate to the member states how they should conduct their family policy. as the shadow rapporteur for the ppe, i have to state that if the text of the resolution is passed as proposed, my colleagues will abstain. the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. mr. colleague, thank you very much for your question. i'm all for the exact wording you said. i am in favour of the council returning to negotiations, of starting negotiations with the european parliament and the european commission on improving the working conditions of pregnant women pregnant workers those who have given birth and those who are breastfeeding. exactly to keep to the name of the directive that the european commission has put forward.
the proposal to extend maternity leave was certainly put forward and amended with the best of intentions. with the intention of creating better conditions for women and children on maternity leave, with the intention of helping women return to the labour market after their leave. but seven long years have passed and we have not been able to reach a compromise that is acceptable to all member states. it's time to admit that we need to start over. however, in the further discussion on this subject, i would like to stress that the future and satisfaction of european families do not depend solely on the length of maternity leave. i know from interviews with young families that in addition to decent maternity leave, they need enough places in preschools, affordable housing and appropriate tax incentives. but whether such policies are created is not primarily up to us, but to the governments of the member states.
in writing. i speak as the father of four children. i believe it would be irresponsible to just throw away the maternity leave policy. the 20 weeks previously proposed by parliament, i think, are absolutely realistic from the point of view of the child, the mother, the family, the workplace and society. this is the most important minimum time in the baby's life that he or she will have to spend with the mother and in which the new family member will become accustomed to each other. but it's not long enough for the mother's absence from the labor force to have truly radical consequences. in addition, if women consider that this period is too long for them individually, they may take only the six weeks of maternity leave that are required. if someone chooses this option, we can help them with a system whereby the amount of childcare allowance that is left in the state treasury because of their decision can be used for the costs of their nursery or childcare. parliament must protect this directive from falling victim to the commission's efforts to simplify the rules.
even five years after the european union acceded to the convention, persons with disabilities are not guaranteed free movement, and face various physical and social barriers, as well as prejudices that persist. it is important to remove these barriers not only to enable them to move freely, to study or to travel for work, but also to enable them to benefit from healthcare in another member state without any problems, where necessary. this dress i'm wearing was given to me today by the slovak muscular dystrophies. you see how people with disabilities can do great things. let's not leave these people on the margins of society. none of us chose to be born healthy or disabled, to lose our sight, our hearing, or to be confined to a wheelchair. it is therefore important that we not only break down barriers on paper, but also in practice.
mr president, it appears to me that the discussion about the european agenda on migration is filled with fear and negative emotions. i would like to stress that migrants are not a problem. migrants are people. for many citizens, it was narrowed just to quotas for member states. also, measures against smugglers have a short-term impact. therefore, i find it more effective to solve causes rather than consequences and i stress and suggest this one: last week i accepted an invitation from the democratic self-administration of rojava in north-east syria and i visited jazira/gozarto canton. i saw the severe conditions under which syrian christians and other minorities like kurds and arabs live. we europeans know little about their bravery when facing isis aggression, the assad regime and other islamic militants. i would urge the commission to use diplomatic, political and economic means for a solution that will focus mainly on regions from where the migration springs, with a special focus on democratic regional initiatives for self-administration.
i'd like to say that i'm rather disappointed with the many performances that have been heard in this room. i'm disappointed by the arrogance that was in these speeches towards people who come here to the european union as people who are looking for a refuge, a refuge maybe from death, maybe from hunger. and it particularly scares me when i hear this from colleagues from countries where our citizens go to work in other economically stronger countries. there are hundreds of thousands of citizens from our countries who are looking for work elsewhere, and we are speaking offensively about people who come here for economic reasons to look for work. i would therefore ask my colleagues to really look for the right words and the right means of expression to express themselves about migrants. and on behalf of the commission, i would like to thank you very much for the success of all that you have proposed. i believe that it will also be successful in the interests of those seeking a new life in europe.
in writing. the causes of migration need to be addressed, not just the consequences. it is essential to better target development aid and to try to raise living standards in the countries from which the most migrants come to the eu. it is also important to make development aid more effective, to prepare trade agreements with third countries, to tighten the allocation of immigration quotas and to take account of the competences of the member states. the current migration situation is critical and therefore the challenges of eu migration and asylum policy need to be addressed in a systematic way.
in writing. ‒ in the single seat campaign, i would like to draw attention to the excessive waste of public funds and thus call for fewer days to be allocated to plenary sessions in strasbourg and more days to be allocated to plenary sessions in brussels. by having the european parliament sit in only one city, we will save taxpayers €114 million.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the council decision in this case is to approve the additional protocol to the agreement on trade, development and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of south africa, of the other part, to take account of the accession of croatia to the european union. it is currently pending who the government of the republic of south africa will authorise to sign the additional protocol in question.
in writing. ‒ the republic of croatia became the 28th member state of the european union on 1 july 2013. the signature of the additional protocol is necessary in order to enable the republic of croatia to become a contracting party to the trade, development and cooperation agreement which strengthens cooperation between the member states of the european union and the republic of south africa.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the draft council decision on the conclusion of an additional protocol to the eu-south africa trade, development and cooperation agreement to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the eu, as the aim of this resolution was to introduce a number of technical and linguistic adjustments to this agreement, the signature of the additional protocol being necessary for the republic of croatia to become a party to the dors.
‒ i supported the proposal as it is only intended to take account of the accession of croatia to the european union.
in writing ‒ given that between eur 615 billion and eur 1,54 billion of money is laundered worldwide each year and that various organised crime groups continue to use traditional money laundering methods such as shell companies and offshore accounts, and that money launderers are also increasingly using the internet and other technological innovations, with the emergence of illicit financial service providers in the form of unmonitored payment platforms and banks, it is imperative that the outdated money laundering directive 2005/60/ec be updated. in particular, in the current deteriorating security situation in the european union, we cannot allow the perpetrators of large-scale crime to continue to legalise and transform their assets. terrorist groups seek to legalize their revenues, which they can then use to threaten the whole of society. european society needs to be more flexible in responding to threats, also in view of the changing nature of the threat and technological change. new european union legislation in this area will allow us to respond more effectively.
in writing. ‒ there are two requirements for the effectiveness of our fight against terrorism. we must act quickly, but with great deliberation. in today's complex world, where financial transparency is becoming increasingly complex, we must find a way to ensure that transactions are transparent. that is why i welcome this report. i myself am calling for the introduction of tough and consistent regulations against money laundering and tax evasion, which can finance terrorism and is a hotbed of corruption. we need the full cooperation of our law enforcement agencies. we must act with a cool head and consistency, using the most effective weapon we have - cutting off the money supply. we have to face the fact that this is a power struggle, where a fanatical, corrupt madness is trying to extend its power over a world based on values, on law. and in the meantime, we must be aware that we have a responsibility to curb the fear and radicalization of our citizens and the minorities among us.
in writing. – i voted in favour as i consider that money laundering has to be fought decisively as an unacceptable financial crime. this proposal combats it, and member states will be obliged to hold central registers of beneficial ownership, accessible to competent authorities under certain conditions.
in writing. according to the international monetary fund, the amount of dirty money is enormous, reaching 5% of global gdp. such criminal activities undermine the financial sector, lead to revenue losses in individual member states, impede competition and adversely affect the functioning of markets. money laundering and illegal activity pose a real threat to the existing economy. in this respect, any measure is welcome and should be supported. the establishment and operation of business registers will make it possible to identify the beneficial owner of a business or a business transaction in the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. trade registers should also help to identify the actual profits of companies, in particular in cross-border business transactions. in preventing the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering, the most important preventive approach should be targeted and proportionate, while fully respecting the eu legal order.
in writing. ‒ we must take all steps to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing. it is the common task of the safety and financial authorities to work closely together and to exchange data in a timely manner.
written ‒ i did not support the proposal because it leads in several ways to an increase in the regulatory burden on the institutions concerned, the results of which are questionable. i am convinced that the new regulatory burden will mainly affect persons engaged in legitimate activities in accordance with the law, and not persons involved in terrorist activities or money laundering.
in writing. ‒ the since 2013, the european commission has been working to amend existing european regulations to respond to the urgent need to change and combat money laundering and terrorist financing. this regulation should establish clear and precise rules for financial service providers and make the flow of money along the financial chain between payer and payee transparent for the purposes of transparency, prevention and protection against money laundering.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this proposal since it also clarifies the rules on politically—exposed persons and adds several important provisions on data protection.
‒ i did not support the proposal because it introduces new administrative obligations for financial institutions which will increase their regulatory burden and the new regulations will also lead to a reduction in the privacy of the persons concerned. like the proposal on combating money laundering and terrorist financing, this proposal will mainly affect innocent people.
in writing. ‒ since 2000, the european union has been paying particular attention to this issue, as evidenced by directive 1346/2000, which clearly defined the european framework for crossborder insolvency proceedings. it has clearly and intelligibly identified the member state having jurisdiction to open and initiate insolvency proceedings and has established uniform rules on the applicable law. it entered into force in 2002 and, after years of application, the european commission has concluded that there is a need to improve the application of certain provisions, which are very complex and technical.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the resolution at second reading on the council position with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on insolvency proceedings, taking into account the positive opinion of the ecr.
in writing. ‒ i support the legislative resolution of the rapporteur approving the council position for the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on insolvency proceedings. one of the key objectives of the proposed insolvency regulation is to move away from the traditional liquidation approach towards a second chance approach for businesses and entrepreneurs in financial difficulty in cross-border insolvency proceedings. the council's position also contains new rules aimed at preventing the abuse of the jurisdiction clause. also, in order to improve the provision of relevant and timely information to creditors and the courts involved and to avoid the initiation of parallel insolvency proceedings, the regulation imposes an obligation on member states to set up insolvency registers. national registers will have to be linked and accessible via the european e-justice portal in full compliance with european data protection legislation. the regulation should also contain specific provisions on cooperation and communication between courts and insolvency practitioners involved in the insolvency of members of groups of companies.
written ‒ i did not support the proposal because, while it introduces some minor changes that may increase the efficiency of insolvency proceedings, it also introduces one significant change that may substantially reduce the responsible behaviour of debtors. this is a change in the approach to insolvency proceedings, whereby, if certain conditions are met, entrepreneurs can be given a 'second chance' to survive as 'healthy firms'. however, this approach significantly increases the moral hazard, as debtors will be aware that they will not be fully liable for any default. as such a 'second chance' must necessarily be granted to the detriment of the interests of the creditors, it can be assumed that this will increase the prices of the loans, since the creditors will have to take into account a higher risk of losing money.
in writing. ‒ i believe it is important to make progress in establishing a self-certification system for minerals from conflict-affected areas in the eu, but making origin certification mandatory at a later stage in the production chain would place an excessive economic and administrative burden on european smes. i support the idea that control mechanisms in the countries of origin of minerals should be strengthened to contribute to the fair distribution of resources in the system. the objective of the european system should be to establish a balanced regime that promotes sustainable development in countries of origin affected by armed conflict, without the economic effects of the application of such rules being similar to embargoes. given that the european parliament's plenary did not fully share the principles of the group of the european people's party in its assessment of the key issues, i abstained from the final vote in order to allow the dialogue to continue in the interinstitutional dialogue.
in writing. ‒ it is important that the european union seeks to limit, by all possible means available, the financing of armed groups through the extraction and sale of minerals in conflict areas. the european commission commits itself to this proposal by ensuring that importers of specific metals into the european union prevent damage at the bottom of the chain by monitoring and managing their purchases and sales in line with oecd guidelines. it is very important that the european union focuses on all societies worldwide and not just on a small group in a particular area. the european union must work with responsible businesses and promote legitimate trade.
in writing. ‒ revenues from mining and trade in minerals are a source of funding for armed conflicts in many countries around the world. many business entities thus indirectly support this financing through their activities. the european union is also a leading importer and processor of minerals, with 400 importers of tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold and their ores, making it one of the largest markets for these metals and ores. i consider it important that, in order to increase transparency and awareness among all economic operators involved in the extraction, trade and processing of minerals from these countries, measures be taken by the european union and the member states to ensure that all operators concerned act responsibly and lawfully.
in writing. - i voted yes. human rights abuses in the mining industry occur in developing countries. we often encounter child labor, sexual violence, and forced evictions. only organized and armed groups profit from the mineral trade. so we have to set up this system so that people don't get abused. human rights are more valuable than a few euros cheaper mobile phone or other electronics.
☐ i supported the proposal because i agree with the voluntary approach to certification and, like the rapporteur, i believe that market pressures in the small and transparent markets concerned by the proposal will lead to a high level of involvement. if some companies choose not to participate, the punishment of customers in the market is a better punishment than the legal punishment.
in writing - i supported the proposal because i agree with the criticism in the report on the proposal. in view of the current situation of the products concerned by the proposal, the exemption granted for the use of cadmium is no longer justified.
in writing. - i voted yes. i believe that the slovak republic, as well as europe itself, will benefit from maintaining a licence for the import of agricultural lime. a group of countries such as france, hungary, poland and also slovakia would be threatened by uncontrolled imports of agricultural liqueur from third countries.
‒ i did not support the proposal because i do not agree that the abolition of the monitoring of ethyl alcohol-related data is a bad move. this will reduce the administrative burden on the entities concerned and the costs for the authorities processing the data, without any significant negative consequences.
in writing. ‒ the draft resolution on maternity leave has been the subject of a long-running dispute between the european parliament and the council, which blocked it in the past. it is very important that this stalemate is resolved. this is a clear indication of the opposition to women's rights and their deliberate trampling. women's working conditions must be improved and practical action must be taken instead of constantly discussing the issue. europe is struggling with a demographic crisis and the solutions offered by the european parliament are constantly rejected by some institutions. the european institutions must send a positive signal and promote parenting and maternity protection in the european union.
in writing. ‒ the the position of women in relation to their natural mission motherhood and the reconciliation of their private and working lives must be secured and addressed by legislation. the eu member states have a very low birth rate. the native population will be diminished. the increasingly unfavourable demographic situation in europe urgently requires the creation of appropriate legislative conditions for the protection of motherhood, its material provision, measures to improve working conditions for pregnant women and also for post-natal workers, as well as a sufficient number of nurseries and crèches. the best practices of those eu countries with higher fertility rates should be followed. this is a human and social issue, not a political one, and cannot therefore be the subject of pointless and unnecessarily long-lasting debates and processes.
in writing. ‒ parenthood is a great gift and deserves the attention and support of employers and the state. the adoption of the resolution aims to address the situation of women on maternity leave within the eu. while this is a very important issue for women and families, it should be stressed that family policy is entirely a matter for the member states, which can also set the rules for maternity leave. that's why i abstained.
in writing. the whole eu is facing a demographic crisis, with fewer children being born every year, with an ageing population. this puts the labour market and the entire social and pension system at risk for the future. from this point of view, too, the council's approach, which has blocked the directive since 2010, is incomprehensible. although the social system is determined by each member state individually, it should be taken into account across the eu that, even as a result of the crisis, women are the most vulnerable working group on the labour market, that women earn much less than men and that they have an average pension 39% lower than men after retirement. the extension of maternity leave to 20 months and the protection of pregnant women and new mothers after return to work must be a priority for each member state and the council should therefore resume negotiations on a european directive on maternity leave as soon as possible. there is no excuse for the economic crisis and the associated austerity measures, because the gender pay gap, the gender pay gap, the gender pay gap, the gender pay gap, the gender pay gap, the gender pay gap, the gender pay gap, the gender pay gap, the gender pay gap, the gender pay gap, the gender pay gap, the gender pay gap, the gender pay gap, the gender pay gap, the gender pay gap, the gender pay gap, the gender pay gap, the gender pay gap, the gender pay gap, the gender pay gap, the gender pay gap, the gender pay gap, the gender pay gap, the gender pay gap, the gender pay gap, the gender pay gap, the gender pay gap, the gender pay gap, the gender pay gap, the gender pay gap, the gender pay gap, the gender pay gap, the gender pay gap, the gender pay gap, the gender pay gap, the gender pay gap, the gender pay gap, the gender pay gap, the gender pay gap, the gender pay gap, the gender pay gap, the gender pay gap, the gender pay gap, the gender pay gap, the gender gap, the gender gap, the gender gap, the gap, the gap, the gap, the gap, the gap, the gap, the gap, the gap, the gap, the gap, the gap, the gap, the gap, the gap, the gap, the gap, the gap, the gap, the gap, the gap, the gap, the gap, the gap, the gap, the gap, the gap, the gap, the gap, the gap, the gap, the gap, the gap, the gap, the gap, the gap, the gap, the gap, the gap, the gap, the gap, the gap, the gap, the gap, the gap, the gap, the gap, the gap, the gap, the gap, the gap i believe that the disagreement and concerns of employers are justified, and that each member state should therefore make a strong contribution to the policy on maternity leave, the guarantee of benefits and payments.
in writing. ‒ to increase birth rates in the eu, we need to create better conditions for women on maternity leave. the area of social affairs remains the competence of the national states. the eu should create conditions that allow member states more room to extend maternity leave and increase net earnings during maternity leave.
‒ i did not support the proposal because i do not agree that the european union should centrally determine the conditions and financial compensation for maternity leave for all eu countries. i am convinced that the european union is going far beyond its competence in this area and that the decision on maternity leave should remain the sole responsibility of the member states.
in writing. ‒ the it is true that slovakia already guarantees women up to 34 weeks of maternity leave in some cases, which is 14 weeks more than the proposed directive. in this respect, nothing would therefore change for slovakia. however, the directive contains a provision whereby a woman would receive 100% of her previous salary during the 20 weeks of maternity leave. although at first sight this idea sounds attractive, many member states have said that their national budgets would not support such a change. if in some countries the mother is paid by her employer, it could be that such an arrangement would lead to even greater discrimination against women in employment, as it would thus fundamentally 'price' the female workforce. the most positive part of the proposal, in my view, is the provision for two weeks of paternity leave. there are currently eight other eu countries, and slovakia is one of them, where men are not entitled to a single day of paternity leave. they are unable to enjoy some of the most precious moments of their family life with their mate and newborn. the adoption of this directive has been dragging on for seven years. the european parliament was unable to reach an agreement with the council. it's time to admit that this proposal is, for the reasons i've given, unworkable.
in writing. ‒ a historic opportunity for the un to examine whether the eu is properly implementing the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. the european parliament also takes the opportunity to send a reply to the un on its own behalf in the form of an adopted resolution, detailing what the institution is doing for people with disabilities. the ep resolution calls on the three eu member states that have not yet ratified the convention to do so as soon as possible, and those that have already done so - including the eu itself - to speed up the implementation of the convention. it also urged the european commission to formally involve parliament in a constructive dialogue with the un and to produce the long-awaited european accessibility legislation. the eu's framework cooperation to monitor the implementation of the convention, of which the ep is a member, needs resources to function effectively. following the un final report, parliament's empl, libe and peti committees will shortly produce a joint report. this institutional cooperation at international level for the rights of persons with disabilities can, for example, serve as a basis for similar actions for the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities, who also require greater legal protection and attention than national minorities. i voted in favour of the adoption of the motion because it promotes the effective implementation of the un convention.
in writing. ‒ the european union fully supports and promotes the active inclusion and full participation of people with disabilities in society. it should be remembered that disability is a matter of rights, not discretion. in 2010, the european commission adopted a european disability strategy for the years 2010 to 2020. the main objectives of this strategy include, inter alia, accessibility, participation, equality, employment, education and training, social protection, health and external relations.
in writing. ‒ the european union has ratified and become a party to the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. it has been signed by all 28 member states and ratified by 25. the eu has thus committed itself to building a barrier-free europe for 80 million people with different forms of disability by 2020. despite the convention entering into force in 2011, its content is not being implemented as expected and persons with disabilities continue to face various forms of discrimination compared to other persons. it is therefore necessary to develop analyses in cooperation with organisations representing disabled people, which give a realistic assessment of the situation regarding the treatment of the rights of disabled citizens. i encourage the rapid development and submission of measures that will lead to the effective removal of barriers and the immediate fulfilment of the convention's obligations.
in writing. ‒ i abstained in the vote on the resolution on the list of subjects adopted by the united nations committee on the rights of persons with disabilities in relation to the initial report of the european union. this resolution contains many important proposals which i consider very useful. at the same time, however, it refers to the non-adoption of an anti-discrimination directive, which in its current form carries the risk of endangering contractual freedom and of dangerously vague and very broad interpretation, which could in turn lead to legal uncertainty and also to restrictions on civil rights and freedoms.
in writing. the principles of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities point the way to ensuring that all persons with disabilities can enjoy their human rights, and focus on providing the necessary protection and assistance to families, which should contribute to enabling persons with disabilities to fully and equally exercise their rights. the committee on petitions receives petitions every year which point to discrimination on the grounds of disability in access to employment, self-employment, public services and education. therefore, eu funding should also be used to support accessibility and e-accessibility for persons with disabilities, to support the transition from institutional to community-based care, to develop quality social and health services and to invest in capacity building of organisations representing persons with disabilities. in the development of future eu policies and legislation, it is necessary to ensure that persons with disabilities have equal rights and obligations in the labour market, in the use of services, in leisure activities and in personal life.
in writing. ‒ there are more than 80 million people with disabilities in the european union who, unlike healthy citizens, cannot enjoy the freedoms on which the european union is built. unfortunately, it will be a long time before we can say that the whole old continent is really capable of taking care of the most vulnerable. the union should lead by example in respecting the obligations arising from the convention and promote barrier-free access not only within individual member states but also across borders. barriers should also not be in place to access to healthcare for the disabled. the moment we remove all these barriers, we will be able to say that the right to freedom of movement is truly a privilege for all.
in writing. ‒ xylella fastidiosa is a bacterium that entered europe from the united states of america during 2013. this disease has affected mainly olive trees in southern europe, in particular in the region of apulia in southern italy, and has the potential to threaten other regions and crops in the future, which could have very dramatic economic, environmental and social impacts. we must do everything in our power to stop the further spread of this disease to neighboring regions.
in writing. ‒ the the bacterium xylella fastidiosa, which attacks olive trees, is a serious threat to the southern territories of the european union. it has the effect of rapidly reducing the production of olive trees and causing them to die. the use of pesticides appears to be ineffective, and it has other negative effects. it is necessary that the commission, in cooperation with the relevant institutions and the eu member states, review without delay the measures taken so far and present procedures to prevent the further spread of this bacterium.
in writing ‒ i supported the proposal because i agree with the measures to combat xylella fastidiosa. given the potential spread of the disease within the eu, this is a problem that is truly of concern to the whole of the european union and therefore a problem that is within the competence of the eu.
madam president, first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur for the good work on this progress report. i think we should see the eu integration process as a vehicle to enhance reforms in the country. we need to stay focused on the reformsʼ processes such as strengthening the rule of law, independence of the judiciary and unconditional respect for fundamental freedoms, including freedom of association, expression and freedom of the media. turkey should be encouraged to intensify its dialogue with the eu and the venice commission in order to converge to the eu aquis. i would also like to stress the importance of turkey as a major regional and international player. in the security context, turkey remains a key nato ally which can play an increasingly positive and constructive role in all regional constellations. this includes relations with the eu member states, eu candidate countries in the western balkans and turkeyʼs troubled neighbourhood in the south-east. we need to see an increased complementarity in the eu’s and turkey’s foreign and security policy issues. in the current security environment a closer relation between turkey and the european union is to the benefit of both. (the speaker accepted to take a blue-card question under rule162(8))
blue-card answer.– first of all i do not believe that turkey will become an eu member on its own terms. you are underestimating the european union if you say that. and i did not say that i believe that; i said that turkey – whether you like it or not – is a candidate country which is going through the accession negotiations. whatever you say, this is the truth, and i repeat that the european commission is the body which defines with whom we are going to start accession negotiations. it is a process – nobody wants to accept turkey now. it is a matter of years. i do not know how this process is going to end.
on behalf of the ppe group.– mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the commissioner for giving a very excellent speech, a very good analysis. he was speaking directly to the point, which was very helpful. first of all, let me express my hope that this discussion here and now will reflect our support to macedonia, to its people and their european ambitions. i believe that the country is at a turning point. in this difficult situation we should be clear and decisive in carrying our message of support. macedonia is facing a really difficult political crisis, doubled with the extreme security challenges that would shake the basis of any political system in europe. after last week’s event in kumanovo we know how serious the situation can get. the deep political crisis in the country needs to get more of our attention as well. there are serious revelations coming from the wire-tapping scandal which have to be addressed by the relevant authorities. at the same time, politicians need to address the question of political accountability. in this situation we have to see reflection, political responsibility and more political dialogue. this needs to come from all sides of the political spectrum and across ethnic lines. in a country with such severe challenges, it is important that the democratic institutions and mechanism work. this concerns especially the parliament, which is the platform for a political dialogue and mechanism for political oversight. it is important that all politicians show responsibility and openness. i mean the politicians in macedonia, but also the politicians in this very house. please, let us keep in mind that the european integration processes are in this situation one of the few tools which could help to overcome this crisis. we need to get macedonia back on track. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i do not know, please explain to me.
macedonia has been waiting for accession negotiations for ten years. the european union is also to blame for the escalation of tensions after last year's elections. although the election observers did not find any serious shortcomings, incomprehensible statements by the commission and some member states were a welcome excuse for the second largest party to challenge the election results and not take office. for example, the dutch ambassador called it a big problem, and i quote: "insufficient distinction between party and state activities during the election campaign". this is a criterion that allows us to question all the results of elections in half the member states. i am a friend of macedonia. i only visited him a few weeks ago. despite a deep internal crisis, macedonia is still a democratic state that belongs to the european union. i call on the commission to start negotiations on macedonia's accession with an open door as a matter of urgency. at the same time, i ask the politicians and the citizens of greece for their sympathy on the question of the name of the young republic. because stability in the balkans is in the interest of all of us.
madam president, the current situation to the east of our borders resembles a return to the old politics of influence between the west and the east. the concept of the eastern partnership in this situation is an important framework for engagement. our ultimate goal is for the eu to have more democratic, more prosperous and more integrated neighbours. we need to get back to these basics. to be successful we have to clearly demonstrate that we are prepared to fully engage our political capital for our neighbours. we have to be all-in. we can do that by sending strong, united and encouraging messages through this summit. i repeat: our neighbourhood policy needs to be more politically driven. this means to propose a clear and courageous vision for our neighbours and to match our words with deeds. it concerns especially those who have clearly voiced their european ambitions. they need this signal from us now more than ever.
we know that the commission's proposal to increase the pre-financing of the youth initiative has received considerable support here in parliament. but this support is not a blank check. it's about, first and foremost, there will be no more excuses for why the program doesn't work the way it should. if, despite the promotion, we are not able to offer the young people the skills and jobs we promised them, it shows above all the doubtfulness of such schemes. if activation of the unemployed worked well in finland, for example, and is now failing in countries where it is most needed, this shows that the problem of unemployment is more complex and requires different solutions. the european union can help, but only to those who are truly prepared. that is why i am particularly interested today in the council's answer to the last question: if, despite the passage of time, the increase in resources and the increase in technical assistance, the member states are not able to help young people effectively, are we still sure that we do not know how to help them better?
in writing.– it is extremely worrying that we hear of the plight of a nation only once their faith becomes tragic. the rohingya are being stripped of their basic human rights, trafficked, tortured and mass-murdered. let there be no mistake: the roots of desperate migration, just like that of rohingya refugees, or libyan refugees, or syrian refugees, lie in the oppressive regimes that these people flee. however, there is a huge degree of responsibility that lies within the international community. and that applies to the western international community, as to the asian international community. what we are witnessing now in the south-east asian seas, ʽthe human ping-pongʼ, must find a political solution. a solution that will end the long-lasting gambling with human lives and recognise the rights of the rohingya people not only in burma/myanmar, but in the region as well. the upcoming elections in burma/myanmar in autumn 2015 will be a test not only for the governing party and the opposition, but also for the minority groups, such as the rohingya. we should make sure that they are able to participate in the elections.
in writing. ‒ the report is of particular importance and also prepares the council meeting on the common security and defence policy in june 2015, which should summarise the efforts of the last year and a half and contribute to a more effective csdp in the future. the text seeks to address several aspects of concern, such as assessing the overall security context, clarifying whether csdp has become a genuine priority, assessing the situation in csdp missions and operations, and, last but not least, assessing the situation of the european union's defence industry and its capabilities and opportunities.
in writing. an active common security and defence policy should ensure greater stability and security in the world. the current situation, in particular the conflict in ukraine and the situation in africa, the problems of terrorism and radicalisation of the islamic state, threaten the security of the union and its member states. all this requires the european union, in cooperation with the member states, to make its common security and defence policy more effective, to intensify its diplomatic activity and to use all its means to strengthen its position while enhancing the security of its territory.
in writing. - i voted yes. i consider the common security policy an important part of the eu and i think that many trends within this policy can help the eu to become an active partner in stabilising the situation in risk areas. i believe that the situation in the eu's southern neighbours in the middle east, especially with regard to persecuted minorities, deserves special attention.
in writing. ‒ the current level of uncertainty at the eu's borders and in its immediate vicinity is unprecedented since the introduction of the common security and defence policy in the late 1990s. the union, as a major player, cannot tackle all these threats together and too often limits itself to relying on the initiatives of one or more member states. the eu plays only a marginal or secondary role. the eu and its member states should therefore take greater responsibility for their own security and defence, as the security environment in and around the eu is becoming increasingly volatile and unstable, due to a large number of long-term and emerging security challenges, such as the conflict in ukraine, syria, libya and iraq with the rise of the terrorist organisation isis. the european union can only respond effectively to these new security challenges if its structures and its member states work together in a joint and genuinely coordinated effort in the context of a common security and defence policy.
in writing. ‒ recent developments in europe show that we must be vigilant about our security. it is not necessary to replace collective security under the heading of nato, but it is necessary to deepen and make more effective the existing cooperation between individual states, especially in the field of defence and security.
in writing. - i supported the motion. given the current state of security in the world, it is good to support efforts to consolidate defence also at the level of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the the events of this year have clearly demonstrated that the european union must work to be able to cope with the increasing challenges both within and outside its territory much more efficiently and quickly, and to respond to new security risks and threats. budgetary cuts in defence spending and existing duplications require a reassessment of the financing of csdp missions and operations. the modest nature of csdp interventions, especially military ones, which unfortunately, instead of being a major european contribution to peacekeeping and peace-keeping, are mostly small military missions for training purposes. the european union must be able to accelerate and make csdp missions more flexible and to deepen civil-military cooperation.
in writing. an effective and efficient common security and defence policy requires clear, unambiguous, understandable and transparent conditions for its financing and coordination of the actions of the european union and its member states. the same requirements must also be imposed on the control of the financing of the common security and defence policy. the european union must be able to ensure the protection of its territory and the safety of its population.
in writing. - i voted against the report. i do not believe that the funding arrangements presented in the report are beneficial for the eu.
in writing. ‒ the european union and its member states are among the major funders of various peace and crisis management operations around the world. civil and military missions and common security and defence policy operations account for a very small proportion of all finances, the importance of the common security and defence policy for peace is considerable. as the eu budget for the cfsp is insufficient to finance it, the european defence and security council must formulate concrete proposals at its next meeting for reforming the financing of csdp missions and operations to make them more effective and successful. on the other hand, member states must fulfil the commitments they have made to support and consolidate the european defence agency and to promote a common industrial and technological base.
in writing. ‒ as the eu security situation is complex and faces new challenges and risks, it is essential to strengthen the common security and defence policy (csdp) so that it becomes a more effective policy instrument and a real guarantor of the security of eu citizens. it is also important that the management of funds is efficient and transparent.
in writing. ‒ the legislation on the european defence market was introduced as early as 2009. however, recently, faced with significant security threats, the member states of the european union have introduced new legislation in their national legal systems based on transparency and addressing the specificities of the defence sector. adequate capabilities and equipment supplies, the strategic autonomy of the european union are crucial factors for the security of the citizens of the member states. we need to focus on significant consolidation, cost-effectiveness and transparency in european defence markets, as threats to european security have reached unprecedented proportions. the significant reduction in investment in defence science, research and technology is also not helping this situation.
in writing. - i voted against this report. in assessing europe's security and defence capabilities, i believe that this is a subject where more national sovereignty should prevail, as the ecr group, of which i am a member, has also argued.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report because it defined very clearly the developments on defence markets that threaten european autonomy. the current security threats are common to the eu as a whole and should be addressed in a unified and coordinated manner by pooling and sharing civil and military resources. in this context, it is essential that resources are not wasted, that synergies are created through increased cross-border coordination for security and defence capabilities in the creation of a european defence equipment market and industrial base. i also agree that the single defence market should have a highly competitive industrial base based on innovation and technology, which can also achieve synergies through closer cross-border cooperation. when purchasing equipment for security and defence capabilities, member states should make greater use of joint purchasing through central purchasing organisations as provided for in the european directive.
in writing. ‒ in order to strengthen security and defence capabilities in europe, it is essential to make more efficient use of financial resources, to improve coordination in defence capabilities and, in particular, to respond in a timely manner and to channel strategic investments in defence equipment purchases and upgrades by member states in a timely manner.
the g7 summit is also expected to focus on women's rights and their development. it is significant that the topic of gender equality and women's rights is being brought up at the time of germany's annual presidency of the g7 and it would be chaired by german chancellor angela merkel, who has just been, in the last few days, i think, five times, rated the most influential politician and woman in the world. i am therefore confident that she will use this position at the forthcoming summit to make a clear stand for women's rights, in particular for the adoption of more effective solutions to women's social rights within the european union. we always have a bunch of suggestions in these discussions about how to improve the situation in other parts of the world. how to help change the situation elsewhere. but look at how women live in our countries, the member states of the european union. we cannot therefore preach to the whole world how to behave forever and turn a blind eye to the many cases of the catastrophically poor social situation of many women here in the eu member states, who are often forced to leave their families, to seek work abroad, unable to raise their children. i also find it absolutely unacceptable that women in different member states have to do the same work for several times less pay than their colleagues in the more advanced member states of the european union. and so i would like to call on chancellor merkel from this forum to also address the lives of women in the eu member states, and then we will all use our energy together to help women elsewhere in the world.
in writing. it is the task of the world's most developed countries, including the eu, to find solutions to development policy and environmental protection problems. i strongly believe that the g7 summit in germany will give us the space to discuss these issues and also contribute to addressing the current international challenges.
the two programmes were established at different times and there are several significant differences in their structure and functioning. although these are not new european union programmes, they are certainly justified in the current situation, with the declining consumption of fruit, vegetables and dairy products and the increasing exposure of children in schools to obesity and unhealthy lifestyles. this situation is compounded, among other things, by the modern trend towards the consumption of highly processed foods, often high in added sugar, salt and fat, which are unfortunately popular with younger age groups. there is therefore no doubt that the current programmes are relevant and justified, and i think it is important that we also increase the effectiveness of expenditure intended to promote the consumption of agricultural products in schools.
in writing. we are making full use of the current system in slovakia and are making good use of almost all the funds for both programmes. since the commissioner responsible has decided to audit both programmes, the best solution would be to wait for the results of the audit and use them to decide on the next course of action. the positive side is the expansion of the range of products that can be distributed in schools, for example not only milk but also yoghurt, cheese and cheese, which can be financed from the eu budget, and the use of producers directly from the region. i am pleased that the milk and milk products budget will be increased by eur 20 million. the eu council of ministers is now in the driver's seat, and should consider the need for audit results to complete the approval process.
in writing. programmes for the distribution of fruit and milk, which aim to increase the consumption of these products by children and motivate them to adopt a healthy lifestyle, have been operating in slovak schools for several years. it is difficult to say to what extent they are/are not fulfilling their purpose, as the last national evaluation of the school fruit scheme was carried out in 2011 and the evaluation of the school milk scheme is not available. i am all the more sorry that the european parliament has not heeded the commission's call not to work on a new proposal until the european evaluation of schemes currently under way has been completed. i think it's bad for the business. if parliament had waited for the findings, it could have prepared a better proposal. in the final negotiations between the commission, the council and parliament, it will be necessary to fight for a form of proposal that will help to eliminate these shortcomings. in terms of the number of schools and children involved, we've had the most successful school fruit program to date. however, there were also problems with its administration. due to lack of financial and human resources, the fruit was distributed in school canteens, which are not frequented by all children. slovakia is also one of the few countries where parents are required to contribute to the programme, which may discourage schools in poorer regions from participating. the main problem in implementing the milk programme is the lack of technical equipment.
in writing. i consider universal human rights and democracy to be the fundamental values of the union and the basic principles and objectives of the union's external action. i am pleased that today, as in the past, we are discussing the urgent case of human rights violations in eritrea, where serious violations continue to occur. i am concerned that torture, arbitrary detention, severe restrictions on freedom of expression, association and religion are the reasons why thousands of eritreans flee the country every year. i believe that only development aid and the development of human rights and democratic principles in this country can stop the oppression that is being perpetrated on eritreans. we certainly agree that we are facing great challenges today with the current wave of refugees pouring into europe, with eritreans, according to the un, being the second largest group of refugees on boats in the mediterranean. i myself wonder why eritreans would flee their homeland when their own regime talks about their own country as a paradise on earth. but the reality is, and refugees talk about it, that eritrea is hell on earth, and the main reason for fleeing the country is the suppression of all rights and freedoms by the local government.
the internet is one of the most important strategic tools of modern society and has been increasingly threatened in the last ten years. not only are public administration and the economy at risk, but also people's privacy is closely tied to the security of data transmission. the loss of security and content could lead to the destabilization of society, and that's only a matter of time. why are we afraid that our citizens will not understand our strong action? think about the internet or mobile banking. a loss of confidence can cripple an economy overnight. our social networking contacts, our music stored on cloud services, our purchases, and even our family photos could be at risk. that's pretty obvious to the public, too. today, without a network connection, the subway, the trains, and even the planes can't take off. the belgian air traffic blackout today was also the first thing everyone thought was some kind of cyber attack. in fact, colleagues have noticed today that it is becoming increasingly difficult to access the internet throughout parliament. the cyber attack on france's tv5 has also highlighted the vulnerability of the online world. last year, attacks cost 340 billion euros and the number of attacks increased by 25% in one year. according to a report by the world economic forum, the lack of adequate safeguards is one of the biggest problems facing the global economy. fake content and manipulation of information is also a challenge. we need to find a balance between free speech and privacy and pursuing cybercrime. and more importantly, and this is something we don't realize, we need to punish cybercriminals in a big way.
recently, we have seen many instances of cyberterrorists who, driven by a desire to wreak havoc, have broken into multinational corporations, stealing employee personal information, stealing company secrets, and, worst of all, threatening themselves. i personally consider this a crime and therefore support all measures and actions by stakeholders at both the european union and member state level that are aimed at countering these cyber attacks. cyberattacks against the media are becoming a new threat, and that's why we need to act very quickly, very decisively, and also because they are on the rise. cyberattacks also have to be a concern because they are increasing, not just in frequency and scale, but also in sophistication and intensity of impact. i am very pleased that latvia, as the country holding the presidency, has also made this a priority of its presidency, and i hope that other countries will follow in these priorities.
in writing. recently, there have been several cyber attacks on media outlets, such as the french tv channel tv5 monde and the belgian daily le soir. at any one time, there are about 150,000 different malware types spreading across the internet, infecting over 1 million users every day despite the increasingly dangerous nature of cyber threats and the threat they pose to law and order in the member states of the european union, the european commission has allocated eur 350 million for cyber research between 2007 and 2013. however, for the follow-up period 2013-2020, only 50 million eu has been added to this amount, which is considered insufficient by several experts, also considering that other great powers are massively increasing these funds.
for the ppe group. child marriage is in direct conflict with the christian and, fortunately, with the european concept of human dignity. they also violate international law, as expressed in the convention on the rights of the child. therefore, i welcome and support any initiative that will increase the chances of children not having their childhood ended prematurely and often violently by forced marriage. but it is not possible to protest against forced child marriages and at the same time promote their right to family planning. it seems absurd to me that in one sentence, colleagues are talking about childhood, and in the next sentence they are talking about children, girls, as grown women. if we want to do something to end the practice of child marriage in the world, we must first of all demand that the european union's partner countries where this phenomenon exists respect the charter of the rights of the child. i therefore agree with the third question and believe that the commission is monitoring the situation of children at risk in third countries. i believe that in the dialogue with them, it is necessary to insist firmly on ending the practice of child marriage, even at the cost of cutting official development assistance. but to suppress elements of gender ideology under the guise of protecting the innocence of childhood, i find that inappropriate and ultimately ineffective. and i think that's why most countries haven't ratified the istanbul protocol. and what's worse, instead of helping vulnerable children, we're actually hurting them. both boys and girls.
the subject of forced marriages is viewed by many in slovakia as a topic that does not concern our country. is it a thing of the past or is it a problem that only occurs in developing countries where parents force their children, their daughters, to marry much older men. yes, from these lands come the truly terrifying stories that several of my speakers have told. but forced marriages are not a thing of the past, they are a reality of the present, and their victims come not only from those distant countries, but also from slovakia. these are modern-day slaves, young, underage girls from marginalized communities who travel abroad for lucrative work. but the vision of a better tomorrow turns into a nightmare when they are forced to marry a man they do not know. their personal freedom is restricted and their return home is impossible. if we want to help these girls, and especially if we want to prevent more girls from losing their childhood and the hope of a free, happy and full life, we need to invest more in quality education, as well as ensure that helplines, shelters and social services can operate sustainably.
in writing. a hundred years ago, forced marriage of young children by their parents was a common practice throughout europe. this was mainly for economic reasons. fortunately, our world has changed a lot since then, and while the eu can be criticized for many things, the fact is that our citizens enjoy their freedoms in one of the most advanced democracies in the world. and here is our responsibility to the world. just as i urge the eu in general not to give financial support to countries which systematically and gravely violate human rights, i also call for us to do everything we can to stop the forced marriage of girls in third countries. these girls don't belong in the honeymoon bed, they belong in the schools. i believe that their promotion, their support, is the biggest catalyst in helping to bring about social, democratic reforms in the countries concerned.
on may 8, we commemorated the 70th anniversary of the end of world war ii in europe. the individual member states paid tribute to the victims with all due respect and piety, but i expected representatives of the european union, the european parliament, the commission, the council to come up with a proposal on how we could use this anniversary to send a clear, common message to the people of europe, but also to the whole world. we have missed a good opportunity to make a joint statement at a time when xenophobia, extremism, discrimination and intolerance are on the rise in europe and there are too many conflicts, that we do not respect and do not tolerate violence and that we always and everywhere promote peaceful solutions. the european union was awarded the nobel peace prize in 2012, and rightly so. that is why we had to take advantage of the anniversary of the end of the second world war in europe and address the younger generation in particular, pointing out that wars have only dead heroes, but living orphans, widows, broken families and long-lasting wounds on the body and soul of those who survived.
in writing. ‒ school milk and school fruit programmes take different forms in the member states of the european union and their success depends largely on the eating habits of the member states and the financing conditions for meals provided in educational institutions. in view of the known aid schemes in the central european region and the latest data on them, i can say that the objective of consolidating the programmes and establishing uniform rules for their implementation, as set out in the original proposal of the european commission, is difficult to achieve. the latter does not take into account the specificities of the member states. the operation and development of support programmes is important, but the main focus in the future should be on ensuring that as many institutions and children as possible benefit from them. i cannot accept the proposal in its present form because it would lead to changes which would benefit only some member states while preventing others from carrying out programmes efficiently and on a country-by-country basis. many member states, such as slovakia and hungary, would also receive less eu funding in the future as a result of the decision, and this is unacceptable to me. for these reasons, i abstained from voting on the motion.
in writing. ‒ the both programmes were designed to promote the consumption of fruit, vegetables and dairy products, which are important sectors of european agriculture, each accounting for around 15% of the value of agricultural production in the european union. in addition to their economic importance, they also play an important role in the context of public health and are suitable for distribution in schools. the reasons for the establishment of these two school programmes are still valid in the current situation of declining consumption of fruit, vegetables and dairy products. the situation is further complicated by, inter alia, the modern trends in the consumption of highly processed foods, often high in added sugar, salt and fat, which are favoured by younger age groups. however, it is questionable whether the merger of the programmes in question will bring a real improvement in the quality of the service provided to final consumers.
in writing. ‒ school programmes are important to maintain as a means of educating children about mindful and healthy eating. unfortunately, the consumption of fresh fruit and vegetables and dairy products is decreasing among young people, so it is very important to bring these products into school. i therefore welcome the decision to give the matter a mandate for interinstitutional consultation. i think it is a key issue that member states should have the freedom to adapt the programme to their own agricultural and environmental characteristics and that local fruits and products should be included in the packages given to children. the key issue is to educate people about healthy eating, so that they can have preservative-free, bio-diverse food. at the same time, this would not only serve the direct consumption of local products, but also their appreciation and promotion!
in writing. ‒ healthy nutrition for children and young people must be a priority for each member state. fruit, vegetables, milk and milk products must be part of the school diet. the health nutrition programme must also be part of the fight against child and adolescent obesity. i supported the amendments and the resolution which gave us a mandate to negotiate with the ministers of the individual member states. the fruit, vegetables, milk and milk products promotion programme must also include education and greater accountability for parents and children. although there were differing opinions on whether bananas or chocolate milk with a higher sugar content were suitable for children, i believe that the final legislative form of the regulation will be in favour of children and young people and their healthy eating habits. according to the resolution supported, nutrition experts should also be consulted on the aid scheme for the provision of fruit, vegetables, milk and milk products in educational establishments.
in writing. ‒ eating habits from youth do not change substantially in later life and are reflected in the health of citizens. since prevention is always more effective than treatment, a balanced diet and a lifestyle of regular exercise deserve more attention in schools.
i too dream and long for a europe without discrimination. i want, for example, to make quality and inclusive education a reality for all girls and boys, poor children, children with disabilities, not only in slovakia but also in other countries of the european union. i wish that in the 21st century, we don't have to deal with access to education, and we can focus our resources and energy, for example, on promoting girls' education in technical fields. however, the reality today is different and very different across member states. i therefore believe that it is wrong to burden the member states with new and new legislation, to impose quotas and to intervene in policies which are, by their very nature, the responsibility of the member states in the functioning of the european union. i am convinced that if we are to help girls and women in their education, employment and overall status, we can do better by working patiently and diligently at member state level.
the proposal, despite many necessary recommendations, again seeks to interfere unacceptably with the exclusive competences of the member states. in seeking to promote abortion as a human right, it overlooks the very first human right, namely, the right to life and its protection from conception. it also disregards other basic human rights, such as the right to conscientious objection, especially for doctors. it does not respect the exclusive right of parents to raise their children. it is an unacceptable interference in the private sphere of families to dictate to them how to divide family competencies. europe has already experienced social engineering - it has always been disastrous. no law can dictate the division of housework or the number of women in firms. it is inefficient bureaucracy and eu interference in areas where it has no say. the report neglects the crucial importance of informal work in the family, carried out mainly by women, whether it is caring for dependent family members or a still underappreciated investment in human capital. they're indispensable to the whole society. it is absurd that the report on gender equality completely ignores this fact.
the universal declaration of human rights says: 'all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights.' all people are women as well as men. but this equality is not and cannot be understood as equality. the report goes far beyond the treaties. it is a new and worse version of the infamous estrela report, which seeks to usurp the powers of the member states. it is precisely because of such manifestations of godless ignorance that people are growing distrustful of the european union. because you can't trust someone who'll take every opportunity to break a deal. the draft resolution also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the rights of children to know their parents, as enshrined in the un convention on the rights of the child, are not infringed. this report imposes on the citizens of the member states a lack of respect for human life and dignity. it gives them the illusion of equality and rights that are not balanced by responsibility. it imposes social engineering based on gender ideology that denies and seeks to censor both the natural sciences and the humanities. although there are several paragraphs in this report that i would like to support, i must reject it, and i believe that anyone who can still use their moral compass will reject it with me. the only thing we can do tomorrow is to downplay the evil and vote for an alternative resolution.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. today, when the average wage gap in the union is 16% because someone is doing a job as a man or a woman; when we should be encouraging or forcing women leaders into public or economic positions through quotas; and when we should be debating whether to recognize a mother's right to maternity or to punish her for taking maternity leave, i think it is a travesty, ladies and gentlemen, that certain political groups are bringing up issues that are not appropriate in the shadow of this important political issue. this is a distraction. i cannot therefore support a report which is distorted in this way, because it is precisely these unrelated topics that make the report itself impossible. as a union strategy, i expect concrete action to be taken for equality between women and men, focusing in particular on equal opportunities in economic and social terms, on the recognition, acceptance and translation of gender differences for the benefit of society. we're not robots, and we don't want to put uniforms on everyone. we are men and women who must all be given the opportunity to make a difference. it is time for our strategy to be not a series of vague concepts but a series of concrete steps towards a europe based on genuine equality of opportunity. i can therefore only support the amended proposal tabled on behalf of the group of the european people's party. thank you very much.
in writing 2015 is a very important year for assessing the progress made by the european union in the area of gender equality. despite various initiatives, unequal access and employment conditions due to gender discrimination persist. progress towards gender equality in all areas of life is very slow. the unequal status of women in the labour market is most clearly manifested in unjustified wage differentials, non-standard contracts, but also in overall limited employment opportunities and opportunities. this is why we need to focus in the coming years on adopting very effective and precisely targeted legislation that will eliminate all forms of discrimination against women, but also against men. the citizens of the member states of the european union do not deserve to be endlessly excused for the economic and financial crisis and budgetary consolidation. achieving gender equality is also of great importance for the economy and the economy and is important from the perspective of sustainable and inclusive growth. in the future, we must focus on taking such measures and adopting legislation that actively combats violence against women, creates equal conditions for men and women in the labour market, allows women to occupy more senior and managerial positions in the business sector and involves women more in decision-making processes.
as europeans, we are well aware of the consequences of spreading hate propaganda. we may have thought that something like this could never happen again. however, russian state television recently branded the czechoslovakians who faced the soviet invasion in 1968 as fascists. the same is true of the ukrainians who fight for the territorial integrity of their homeland. i call on you, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, and on all the member states of the european union, to show solidarity and to act together against such lies and manipulations. we don't know who they're gonna target next. labeling and dehumanizing an opponent is always the first step to justifying aggression and violence. i believe that a common european approach is the best response to the spread of lies, propaganda and aggression. thank you in advance for your support.
the fundamental pillar on which we must build our foreign policy is the sharing of common values. we're not currently value-compatible with russia. i'm afraid he is. the values of cooperation, solidarity and mutual support are opposed to destabilisation, violence, non-respect for agreements and international law. we are witnessing that instability and relativism are very easy to transfer closer and closer to our borders. and on the other hand, democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights are becoming increasingly difficult to build beyond our borders. union policy can only be effective if the union is united. i see this as a major challenge for our common foreign and security policy. it is not possible for short-term benefits to become the motives of our policy towards russia.
mr president, re-balancing policy towards russia would require a more self-confident role for the eu as an autonomous security actor, not least through greater engagement in the resolution of the existing frozen conflicts in the eastern neighbourhood. we need deeper cooperation in the field of defence and security, working towards a vision of common european armed forces with an integrated operational command, as well as a fully-fledged eu intelligence agency. we need an energy union: a joint mechanism to coordinate member states’ negotiations of bilateral energy supply contracts and, ultimately, to empower the eu to negotiate contracts on behalf of the member states. that is a way to overcome the strongest tool russia has for dividing the member states.
in writing ‒ in order to ensure equal treatment of all farmers, it is therefore appropriate to provide that the adjustment rate is to apply only to payments for which aid applications have been submitted in the calendar year in which the financial discipline applies, irrespective of when the payment is paid to the farmers. the european commission's proposal therefore envisages the creation of the necessary reserve for farmers.
‒ the draft regulation complies with the treaty on the functioning of the european union and with the rule that the annual budget of the union must be in line with the multiannual financial framework. this financial discipline mechanism will ensure a more balanced distribution of payments between large and small beneficiaries in the agricultural sector. the adjustment will only apply to direct payments exceeding eur 2 000 granted to farmers in the calendar year concerned.
in writing ‒ i voted for the regulation. the amount of the reserve proposed by the commission for 2016 is eur 441,6 million. in the event of a major crisis affecting agricultural production or distribution in the eu, including in slovakia, it will be possible for slovakia to benefit from these funds. if this reserve is not exhausted, the appropriations shall be distributed among the member states in the usual way.
‒ direct payments as one of the instruments of the eu's common agricultural policy should ensure the productivity of european agriculture, the maintenance of the rural population and also an adequate financial income for farmers. however, the application of financial discipline from a certain specific amount does not ensure equal treatment of all farmers and leads to reallocation of direct payments due to the different structure of agricultural production in the member states.
in writing. ‒ the noichl report, although it contains several phrases with which i agree, i could not support. the report aims to develop a strategy to address gender inequalities beyond 2015. it is a sad fact that women continue to be discriminated against in many areas of life. the report rightly points out that equality between women and men is, among other things, an important economic resource for promoting equitable and inclusive economic growth. it is an untenable situation that lower wages for women inevitably lead to lower pension contributions, which in turn leads to lower pensions. the pension gap is about 39%, which pushes many women below the poverty line. it is worth noting that the report attempted to find a solution to these problems, but in my view it went beyond the values of the people's party and set a series of objectives which do not respect the principle of subsidiarity. the union should not be expected to formulate measures or take action in areas falling within the competence of member states, including health and family policy. unfortunately, the alternative resolution of the people's party did not receive the necessary support and, thanks to the coalition of the left-liberals, the report contained requests, measures and tasks that prevented me from supporting the report in the final vote.
in writing ‒ 2015 is a very important year for assessing the progress made by the european union in the area of gender equality. despite the existence of various initiatives, unequal access and employment conditions due to gender discrimination persist. the report presented confirms the findings of previous years, in particular the fact that progress towards achieving gender equality in all areas of life has been very slow. the strategies adopted by the european union to improve the situation are ineffective and inefficient. this is why we need to focus in the coming years on adopting very effective and precisely targeted legislation that will eliminate all forms of discrimination against women, but also against men. the citizens of the member states of the european union do not deserve to be endlessly excused for the economic and financial crisis and budgetary consolidation. we need to recognise that achieving gender equality is also of great importance for the economy and the economy and is important from the perspective of sustainable and inclusive growth. in the future, we must focus on taking such measures and adopting legislation that actively combats violence against women, creates equal conditions for men and women in the labour market, allows women to occupy more senior and managerial positions in the business sector and involves women more in decision-making processes.
in writing ‒ the lack of a satisfactory solution to this problem hinders the union's overall development. a thorough analysis and evaluation of the measures taken so far is therefore essential for the adoption of the eu strategy for equality between women and men for the period after 2015. from the right to the inviolability of the person and to a life in dignity, to a better distribution of care for dependants and foster care, to the full use of talents and skills, the eu has still not succeeded in achieving the goals of the lisbon strategy. the european commission and the member states must adopt clear and comprehensible rules on gender equality that will lead to an accelerated transition to a gender-sensitive society. i'm not sure i can solve this problem.
in writing ‒ i am outraged at the adoption of another own-initiative report that goes beyond the eu's competence and overrides gender ideology, a woman's right to abortion as a basic human right, compulsory sex education and the like. i strongly protest against the imposition of such sexual and reproductive rights which are in profound contradiction to human dignity. the member states must have exclusive competence to decide on such important matters that, given the different socio-cultural differences, they simply cannot be harmonised. while i support the elimination of discrimination between men and women, this report goes beyond the issue.
in writing ‒ despite some of its positive proposals, the resolution seeks to intervene in areas such as health, family law, education and training and others which fall within the exclusive competence of the member states in a totally unacceptable way and must respect the principle of subsidiarity. at the same time, this proposal does not respect the most basic human right, namely the right to life, nor other fundamental human rights, such as the right to conscientious objection, the rights and duties of parents to educate their children, the right of children to know their parents, and so on. the proposed gender equality strategy completely neglects informal and invisible work done mainly by women, and the related investment in human capital within the family. furthermore, the natural family and the natural preferences of both sexes are absurdly presented here as undesirable stereotypes. at the same time, the proposal seeks to enforce externally inadmissible instruments such as the equal division of housework between men and women or quotas for political parties. this is an unprecedented intrusion into the private sphere of citizens and political actors, undermining the eu's most fundamental principles of personal freedom and democracy. that is why i voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ although gender equality in europe has seen positive developments in many areas of private and public life over the last decade, i believe, and i have seen it in my own experience, that progress towards achieving genuine gender equality in all areas of life is very slow. this is also confirmed by the european institute for gender equality's gender equality index, which gives the eu average 54 points out of a possible 100 points. i supported the current report because i expect the new strategy to bring more concrete measures that could lead to more effective implementation of strategies to eliminate all forms of discrimination against women and men. i believe that the new strategy will contribute to the empowerment of women and the adoption of new practices that will make it more effective to implement structural changes to achieve equality between women and men after 2015. i believe that the elimination of gender inequality can only succeed if the strategy is part of changes in laws and policies that create the conditions for systematic action to bring about change at institutional level.
in writing ‒ it is essential to create better conditions for women. in the labour market, it is important to develop women's entrepreneurship and to reduce the gender pay gap, which stands at 16.4%. there should also be increased participation of women in political and economic decision-making, but not in a forcible administrative form through the introduction of quotas.
in writing - i did not support the proposal. several points lead to the european union's powers being increased at the expense of the member states' powers. moreover, many of the points presented do more harm than good in the fight for women's equality. one of these things is the call for quotas for women in public and private institutions. if these quotas were introduced, it would particularly harm women who have entered the institutions by their own efforts, since it would be impossible to distinguish between a post acquired through their own efforts and a post acquired by a woman only through compulsory quotas.
in writing ‒ although this document is not legally binding, it sends a certain signal about the mindset of the majority of the members present, who are trying to model the image of women in society instead of focusing on creating conditions for the free self-realization of women. i think it is wrong to burden the member states with new and new legislation, to impose quotas and to intervene in policies which are, by their very nature, the responsibility of the member states in the functioning of the european union. i could not support the report. i am convinced that if we are to help girls and women in their education, employment and overall status, we can do better by working patiently and diligently at member state level.
‒ the european union should not only fight against infringements of intellectual property rights within its own territory within the member states of the european union, but should also focus its attention on third countries, as counterfeiting already affects commonly used products that can cause injury or expose consumers to serious health risks. in 2013, the customs authorities of the european union seized almost 36 million items suspected of infringing intellectual property rights, with the value of the seized goods exceeding eur 760 million. these are figures that the european commission should not take lightly. the european commission therefore faces the difficult task of how to conduct a professional and transparent public debate on the protection and enforcement of intellectual property and what this means for consumers. we must not forget the call to improve stakeholder engagement in the debate on intellectual property rights. better protection of intellectual property rights and the effective application of the rules relating thereto in third countries would be a major incentive for investors from the european union and other countries to invest, to share their technological skills and to upgrade existing technologies.
in writing ‒ intellectual property rights and their proper protection contribute to the development of innovation and creativity, which is one of the prerequisites for increasing the competitiveness of the european union. it is therefore necessary to respond flexibly to cases of infringement of intellectual property in order to ensure adequate protection and value. counterfeiting and copyright infringement nowadays affects not only branded goods but also everyday goods. such copyright abuse has not only financial implications but also threatens the safety, life and health of people, especially with the increasing number of online purchases. the protection of intellectual property therefore requires constant attention and the adoption of measures that will lead to its effective enforcement.
in writing ‒ although the intellectual property sector accounts for approximately 39% of the union's economic activity and approximately 26% of total employment in the eu, a limited number of agreements relating to intellectual property have been concluded since 1 january 1995, when the agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights entered into force, even though these agreements have transformed the entire field of intellectual property. following the rejection of acta by the european parliament in july 2012, the commission outlined the basis for a new european strategy for the protection of intellectual property in third countries in 2014. it is of the utmost importance to take account of the different interests on both sides and to strike a balance between the interests of rightholders and users. i also agree that it is necessary to distinguish between different levels of development of countries, taking into account the barriers to trade in each country. as regards eu legislation, i support greater internal harmonisation to subsequently increase and enforce intellectual property protection globally.
in writing. ‒ legislation on intellectual property rights should follow digital developments, in particular the online environment and the different ways of dissemination. it should take into account the interests of all parties concerned, as well as the right of consumers to access content and the protection of the work of european creators and artists. in enforcing intellectual property rights, it is important to emphasise the principle of proportionality, balancing the rights of content owners and users, which should be consistent with data protection rules, such as the protection of personal data. it is also important to represent the interests of smes in this area.
in writing ‒ i voted in favour of adopting the draft strategy. it is essential to combat all forms of counterfeiting, but at the same time it is also necessary to look at intellectual property rights from the consumer's point of view, particularly in the area of the pharmaceutical industry and universal access to affordable medicines.
in writing ‒ i supported the resolution because i consider the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights in third countries to be a key issue for europe's competitiveness and i believe that this strategy will also improve the conditions for intellectual property rights in third countries. i consider it very important that we continue to improve the strategy and to be uncompromising in pointing out infringements of intellectual property rights which pose certain risks to the health and safety of consumers and to the environment. i am also in favour of jointly protecting created values in the eu and in third countries and avoiding economic and social consequences for eu businesses and creators. i am convinced that the strategy and the measures taken will help us to prevent the threat to cultural diversity in europe and in third countries and to help in the fight against organised crime, money laundering and tax evasion. as one of the main points of intellectual property protection is the proper enforcement of applicable laws and international obligations, including penalties laws, i expect better coherence between the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights and other policies, as well as between the commission and the member states, in achieving this objective.
‒ i supported the proposal because i welcome greater protection of intellectual property in third countries as a tool to protect innovation and creative works.
in writing ‒ as i supported the new european action plan on the protection of intellectual property rights, i also voted in favour of the proposal on the protection of intellectual property in third countries. by protecting and enforcing intellectual property rights, we also encourage creativity and innovation among creators. in the resolution, we called for greater assistance to third countries in developing a legal framework for the protection of intellectual property, as well as in ensuring a balance between the interests of authors and consumers, especially in the digital sphere. as the proposal is not only aimed at protecting companies from the member states of the european union, but also at protecting domestic companies and at promoting innovation in third countries in general, i believe that it will be positively reflected.
in writing ‒ the enforcement of intellectual property rights is not only an important factor for stable growth and increased employment in the european union, but also for the proper functioning and completion of the single market. it is for these reasons that i welcome the action plan on ipr enforcement. while the main responsibility for enforcing intellectual property rights lies with the public authorities of the member states, the european union must become more actively involved and contribute through its action plan to a more effective enforcement of intellectual property rights through preventive actions and policy instruments. this action plan is of great importance, as we must not forget that in times of economic and financial crisis and in periods of significant cuts in cultural spheres, revenues from intellectual property rights are often the main source of funding for individual creators. in order to establish a system of effective and efficient enforcement of intellectual property rights, it is necessary for the european commission to cooperate closely and intensively with the member states in the exchange of information, appropriate practices and coordination of activities related to the cross-border enforcement of those rights.
in writing ‒ respect for intellectual property rights is a lasting economic value for the european union and a driving force for innovation and creativity. this contributes to increasing its competitiveness. the eu is facing a high number of ipr infringements, of an alarming scale and financial value, which ultimately harm not only the interests of ipr owners but also the eu's economic and financial interests. an eu action plan on intellectual property rights can be a way to strengthen their protection. it is therefore necessary that the commission, in cooperation with the member states, apply it as soon as possible.
in writing ‒ intellectual property rights are key to fair competition in the european union, as the success of business transactions depends on them and without them business could not function efficiently. as the eu and its member states are members of the world trade organisation (wto) and therefore bound by the agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights (trips), the european commission presented a 10-point plan in 2014 that laid the foundation for effective protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights. i support the renewal of these rights and legal aspects and the progressive harmonisation of intellectual property rights at european level, as european laws can help to improve the global protection of intellectual property rights in a better and more transparent way. i agree with the restoration of the protection of these rights, as in the digital age these rules are outdated and action is needed to stop their infringement beyond the eu's borders. i therefore support the proposal for greater harmonisation in the form of exchange of information between member states during transit through their territory and a more complete treatment of the laws relating to commercial and intellectual property from which the author or owner should profit as an incentive for gradual innovation.
‒ the european union is unfortunately still faced with a very large number of cases where intellectual property rights are infringed. i therefore voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the eu action plan on the enforceability of intellectual property rights. i also consider adequate protection of intellectual property rights to be an important part of the development of the eu economy.
‒ the eu is facing a high number of cases of infringement of intellectual property rights, which cause both non-material and economic damage to european businesses and bring about major economic and financial losses for the state. i voted in favour of the resolution on the strategy for the protection of rights and intellectual property in third countries and i also support this report, which comes with concrete measures to ensure the effective enforcement of intellectual property rights. as intellectual property infringement has a particular impact on smes, including the services that businesses provide to other businesses, i appreciate that the eu action plans aim to help these businesses to enforce their intellectual property rights more effectively. i believe that the aid to these undertakings could be seen in the improvement of civil proceedings, the improvement of cooperation between member states and the facilitation of the exchange of good practices. i trust that the representatives of the member states will stick to the objectives set and act in accordance with the steps planned in the action plan. i consider the adoption of the strategy and action plan to be a very important step towards enforcing intellectual property rights, but what i personally consider even more important is that these documents are also applied consistently in practice.
in writing ‒ the main objective of the action plan should be to ensure effective enforcement of intellectual property rights, which is evidence-based and plays a key role in promoting innovation, creativity, competitiveness, growth and cultural diversity. the main responsibility for the enforcement of intellectual property rights should remain with the public authorities of the member states. it is also necessary to raise awareness and to fight more actively against violations of these rights.
‒ i supported the proposal because i believe that it is beneficial to fight goods infringing intellectual property more effectively. i also welcome the fact that the proposal put forward emphasises in particular the evidence-based approach.
in writing ‒ i supported the new action plan on the protection of intellectual property rights, as i considered this area important in view of the need to protect and enforce the rights of authors. i believe that by promoting the protection of intellectual property rights, we are also contributing to the development of creativity, growth and giving a positive signal for innovation. i also find it useful that the proposal works with the concept of raising awareness and informing consumers about manufacturers producing imitations, and thus infringing intellectual property rights. i also welcome the emphasis on the need for examples of good practice to be shared between member states, the role of customs controls and international cooperation. that's why i supported the motion.
blue-card question.– what do you think about the so-called energy mix? when we burn gas, this is co2 emission, and when we burn biomass it is again not very good for the environment. what do you think for the future? nuclear energy is quite clean and it does not have any impact on the environment.
increasing the security of energy supply must also include stronger support for renewable energy sources. many of them are operated mainly by small and medium-sized enterprises. however, the situation in slovakia is unfortunately such that the competent authorities have long prevented the development of small hydropower plants as well as the use of photovoltaic energy for business purposes. they deny the owners the payment of their legitimate profits and refuse to connect their installations to the public transmission system. in the hydropower segment alone, 1 200 small producers in slovakia are affected. there is a marked discrepancy between the declared objectives and reality, which reduces the credibility of the declared european objectives. i have already drawn the attention of the european commission to this situation. if the legislation and documents adopted by this parliament are to have any meaning, the european institutions must take a greater interest in their implementation in the individual member states and respond more flexibly to the impulses of the injured. i believe that this approach and control will actually contribute to increasing domestic energy and thus to our better energy security.
the commission has also received comments from the applicant. we use the most energy in europe for heating and cooling. therefore, investments in building efficiency will also be the most beneficial for citizens and industry. the best, fastest, cheapest way to energy security, but also to reduce our bills, to meet climate goals and to create hundreds of thousands of jobs is to increase energy efficiency in buildings. investments in building efficiency are particularly difficult for low-income owners in the case of rental buildings, the owners are not very motivated in this area either, because the energy is paid for by the tenants. i. investments in building efficiency, however, carry almost no risk to investors the commission is also proposing to set up a european energy charter to promote the use of renewable energy sources. you.
the unity and security of the union and the protection of our external borders are important in the face of the burning tide of illegal migration. the commission's 2013 proposal calls for faster and more effective controls at the union's external borders to improve mobility and security. however, these measures should also take into account the migration situation and the economic recovery. the smart border check-in system would facilitate the control of frequent travellers to the union, which would also result in significant time and energy savings for them and for the union bodies. moreover, working with the electronic system would make it more effective in detecting possible abuses of residence in the union and could reduce abuses of travel documents. this system could also prevent the alleged re-use of lost eu passports for illegal entry. i believe that the current system is not adequate to cope with the increasing burden on member states of passengers entering and leaving the eu, as it is estimated that by 2030 passengers at air border crossings will only increase by 80%, from 400 million to 720 million, and i have two big expectations for the border check-in system: it should be simple and secure. thank you very much.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. their explanations are flimsy and unreliable. all of this would not be a problem if the eu and olaf were really interested in fighting fraud. but they don't have it, and so there's a war of bureaucracy, endless discussions, action plans and blah blah. i myself have had 14 cases in the last 12 months they were mostly very clear submitted to olaf. none of these have been really studied to date. in six cases i received no reply and in another six cases i received an unsatisfactory reply. olaf is not working as it should be. if the commission really wants to fight fraud and wants someone who takes it seriously, i am available.
‒ the kyoto protocol to the 1997 un framework convention on climate change has set itself the goal of reducing emissions. the eu ratified the protocol in 2002 and under the protocol its member states were responsible for reducing their collective greenhouse gas emissions by 8% from 1990 levels in the first period 2008 to 2012. subsequently, in 2012, the council agreed and proposed that the eu reduce emissions by 20% (from 1990 levels). the doha amendment established the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol, ending on 31 december 2020, where the eu and iceland committed to limit their average annual emissions by 2020 to 80% of the 1990 base year.
in writing ‒ the doha addendum commits the european union, its member states and iceland to reduce their average annual greenhouse gas emissions by 20% from the base year 1990 over the period 2013 to 2020. this commitment is based on the european legal framework for climate and energy policy until 2020. the proposal does not change the objectives or commitments of member states under the 2009 climate and energy package legislation, thus respecting the principle that individual member states' commitments to reduce their emissions in the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol do not exceed their commitments contained in the eu legislation making up the package.
‒ the kyoto protocol, signed in 1997, commits the eu and its member states to reducing their collective greenhouse gas emissions by 8% compared to 1990 levels in the first period (2008 2012). in 2012, the council introduced the second commitment period (2013 2020) of the kyoto protocol in the doha addendum, where it proposed a joint qualified commitment for the eu, the member states and iceland to reduce by 20% compared to 1990, and thus the parties committed to reduce emissions by 80% compared to 1990. the doha amendment also introduced three amendments to the text of the kyoto protocol, concerning the inclusion of a new gas (nitrous fluoride), an ambition mechanism allowing a party to adjust the commitment by increasing its ambition, and provisions preventing emissions from rising above the level of the first commitment period in the second commitment period. i agree that in order to achieve effective adoption and implementation of the doha annex before the start of the unfccc conference in paris at the end of 2015, it is necessary for member states to ratify the annex by the third quarter of 2015 at the latest.
in writing. ‒ as we all know, the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol, covering the period from 1 january 2013 to 31 december 2020, entered into force in 2012 as a result of the doha climate conference. for that phase, we set a target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 20% compared to the reference year (which is the base year 1990 for most states that have ratified the kyoto protocol). i'm convinced that the only way this is going to happen is if we can somehow get the u.s. and china to take this commitment seriously. we need to put our economic and diplomatic efforts into action to address climate change as a truly global issue. i think that's the only way we can achieve our goal of limiting global warming to two degrees celsius. at the level of member states, we should not delay but urgently ratify the doha amendment before the paris conference of the unfccc in november 2015.
‒ in 2002, when the european union ratified the kyoto protocol, it agreed to implement the emission commitment jointly, which applies to all member states, including the slovak republic. when voting on the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol, which provides for a reduction of emissions below 20% of 1990 levels, i voted in favour of this resolution, as, on the basis of the council's position, the member states themselves adopted the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol at the doha conference in 2012.
‒ i supported the ep resolution on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the doha addendum to the kyoto protocol to the un framework convention on climate change and the joint fulfilment of the commitments thereunder. the kyoto protocol is a key contribution to addressing global climate change. the ratification decision to conclude the doha addendum to the kyoto protocol is a good strong signal about the role of the eu and its member states in addressing climate change. the doha amendment was adopted at the doha conference in december 2012, where the 192 parties to the kyoto protocol adopted an amendment to the protocol, and it sets out a second commitment period whereby the eu, its member states and iceland commit to limit their average annual greenhouse gas emissions in the years 2013 2020 to 80% of their base year 1990 emissions. the doha amendment also introduces further changes to the text of the kyoto protocol the inclusion of a new gas, nitrous fluoride, a simplified procedure allowing for adjustments to the greenhouse gas reduction commitment and preventing emissions from rising above the average of previous years.
in writing, ‒ i welcome this proposal from the commission. i regret that the commitments of the kyoto protocol are being made by the majority of eu countries, and not by the ones that pollute our land the most. the eu should use all possible political, diplomatic and economic instruments to force these countries to sign a binding international agreement. the ratification decision on the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol and the joint fulfilment of commitments by the european union can thus contribute to addressing climate change at international level.
‒ the agreement between the eu and its member states, of the one part, and iceland, of the other part, on its participation in the second period of the kyoto protocol will send a signal about the joint european efforts to address climate change at international level. we welcome the eu's position, which has become crucial, especially in international climate change negotiations. we therefore consider it important that the council decision on the doha annex and iceland's participation in the joint fulfilment of commitments be ratified simultaneously and without undue delay.
‒ article 4 of the kyoto protocol allows the parties to fulfil their commitments jointly. in a joint statement, the eu and its member states expressed their intention to meet their emission reduction targets jointly in the second commitment period, with the extension of the joint fulfilment to iceland, following its formal request of june 2009.
‒ the kyoto protocol entered into force in february 2005 and aims to commit emissions reductions in the first period (2008 2012). the eu and its member states have ratified the convention and committed to reducing emissions by 8% compared with 1990 levels. iceland, which is not an eu member state but has also ratified the kyoto protocol, has also committed to reducing emissions at the same level. in 2012, the doha climate change conference adopted an addendum to the kyoto protocol extending the emissions reduction period to 2020 and agreeing to a gradual reduction of emissions to 80% of 1990 levels. as iceland is not an eu member state, the council decision authorises an agreement between the eu and its member states and between the eu and iceland, to facilitate the participation of iceland and to create a binding obligation towards the eu. for the purpose of the entry into force of this agreement, i agree that the council decision on the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol and on iceland's participation in the joint fulfilment of commitments under this convention must be ratified in parallel, in good time before the start of the unfccc conference in paris, which will take place at the end of 2015.
in writing. ‒ i support iceland's participation in the second commitment phase of the kyoto protocol. i believe that by joining forces we will be able to achieve the objectives set for the stages ahead. on the other hand, i also think it's important to work with other major powers, like china, the united states, which are the biggest emitters.
‒ although iceland is not a member state of the european union, it participates in the european union emissions trading system and has therefore decided to fulfil its commitment to the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol and to participate in joint fulfilment with the european union, which is why i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing ‒ i supported the ep resolution on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the eu, of the agreement between the eu and its member states, of the one part, and iceland, of the other part, on iceland's participation in the joint fulfilment of the commitments of the eu, its member states and iceland under the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol to the unfccc. iceland is a party to annex i of the kyoto protocol that has met its individual target set for the first commitment period. the icelandic authorities have not provided any evidence that the measures are imputable to the state. the icelandic authorities have also provided information on the market for the shares of the icelandic banks. the good news is that iceland is interested in joint implementation of the kyoto protocol with the eu and its member states, whether or not it joins the eu. the accession negotiations between iceland and the eu therefore have no impact on the joint fulfilment of the commitment for the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol.
in writing ‒ i appreciate iceland's proactive approach to environmental issues and to tackling climate change. although not an eu member state, iceland is still participating in the eu ets and intends to fulfil its commitment in the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol together with the eu and its member states. it is therefore necessary that the rights and obligations applicable to member states in the joint implementation also apply to iceland, through eu legislation and a new agreement between the eu, all member states and iceland.
in writing. ‒ as the rapporteur for the report, i consider it important that croatia accede to the convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters between the member states of the european union of 29 may 2000 and therefore voted in favour of the recommendation. accession will complete croatia's membership of the eu. the purpose of the convention is to promote mutual assistance in criminal matters between the competent authorities of the member states, including police, customs or judicial authorities, with a view to more effective and rapid cooperation in criminal matters. in a union without borders, where people, goods, services and capital can move freely, crime is no longer bound by national borders. crime cannot be prosecuted at the national level. only effective cooperation at european level can bring about the desired results. this requires mutual trust, as law enforcement has traditionally been a national competence and the competent authorities of one member state are reluctant to share information with the authorities of another member state. the convention aims to do just that by encouraging and promoting mutual assistance and trust between member states, which is one of the cornerstones of effective judicial cooperation. it also covers certain forms of mutual legal assistance, such as the setting up of joint investigation teams, and covert investigations. i hope that croatia's accession will bring positive progress in the efficiency of european law enforcement.
‒ the accession of croatia to the eu has also facilitated its accession to the conventions and protocols concluded by the member states under article 34 of the treaty on european union. however, the european commission recommendation contains an error concerning the date of entry into force of the convention between croatia and the member states and such provisions could lead to unclear procedures.
in writing ‒ the recommendation is based on the act of accession of croatia. the aim is to make the necessary adjustments required by the convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the report and croatia's accession to this very important convention. it is good to see that croatia, as the newest member of the eu, is gradually closing all the accession procedures and joining the conventions already adopted and operated by the other member states. this is the way forward, so that croatian eu citizens can make the most of their country's eu membership and eu achievements. i hope that citizens will soon experience the benefits of solidarity and cooperation in their daily lives.
in writing ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution on the accession of croatia to the convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters, as the subject of the motion was a clear and simple codification of the existing texts without changing their substance.
in writing ‒ croatia is a full member of the european union, which confers rights and obligations on it. implementing the law is an integral part of a country's eu membership. it is essential that croatia assume all the obligations arising from its accession to this convention and thus contribute to the mutual assistance of member states in criminal matters.
‒ i supported the proposal as it only takes into account the accession of croatia to the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation to croatia to accede to the 1997 convention on the fight against corruption. although croatia's accession to the convention may be considered a formality, it is of paramount importance as it completes its accession to the union and ultimately contributes to a better functioning european union. as the rapporteur of the report, i consider it extremely important that croatia accedes to the convention, as the convention on the fight against corruption involving eu officials and officials of the member states of the european union makes the union accountable to its citizens. under the agreement, member states are to take all necessary measures to ensure that both passive and active corruption are criminalised. this is the only way to ensure that abuses of power are effectively tackled. it should be regarded as an offence not only to promise or give an official any advantage, that is to say direct, active corruption, but also to ask for or accept any advantage, whether national or of a european institution, in order to take or not to take a measure within its competence or in the exercise of its competence in breach of its official duties. moreover, since crime in the schengen eu does not stop at the national border, the convention calls on member states to cooperate when anti-corruption proceedings affect at least two member states, whether in the form of cooperation in investigations, criminal proceedings or the enforcement of sentences.
in writing ‒ following the alert on a technical error in the european commission recommendation concerning the date of entry into force of the convention between croatia and the member states, a technical correction is made, as the requirement of publication is an essential procedural requirement and without its publication the eusr considers such an act to be non-existent.
in writing ‒ the recommendation is based on the act of accession of croatia. the aim is to make the necessary adjustments required by the convention on the fight against corruption involving officials of the ec or officials of member states.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the report and croatia's accession to this very important convention. it is good to see that croatia, as the newest member of the eu, is gradually closing all the accession procedures and joining the conventions already adopted and operated by the other member states. this is the way forward, so that croatian eu citizens can make the most of their country's eu membership and eu achievements. i hope that citizens will soon experience the benefits of solidarity and cooperation in their daily lives.
‒ accession to the convention is another positive step in the country's implementation of the obligations arising from its membership and its efforts to combat corruption of ec officials or officials of member states.
in writing ‒ the european union should have an interest in maintaining constructive relations over the long term, aimed at addressing common global challenges, such as the fight against terrorism and organised crime, but also those related to climate change and the development of new technologies. unfortunately, the russian federation has been actively using hybrid warfare in recent months, deliberately blurring the line between military/paramilitary activities and political action. in addition, it has taken deliberate actions aimed at destabilising neighbouring countries, contrary to the spirit of good neighbourly relations and in breach of international law, rules and norms. the eu is interested in improving relations with the russian federation, but it is its duty to use all means to prevent such actions by the russian federation.
in writing ‒ relations between the european union and the russian federation are at their most difficult. they are affected by a complex geopolitical situation which ultimately affects and harms the economy and economic interests of both sides. this adverse situation has repercussions not only for the russian federation and its population, but also for individual member states and the eu. we need to look for what unites us and work together to remove barriers. the current complicated state of eu-russia relations calls for intensified diplomatic activity, increased communication and enhanced objective information exchange. the mere use of economic sanctions without rational communication will hardly reverse the current state of affairs.
in writing ‒ since the beginning of the conflict in ukraine, the positions of the russian federation and the european union have diverged and even contradicted each other, as russia is suspected of being directly or indirectly involved in the unrest in eastern ukraine, the annexation of the crimean peninsula and the undermining of the sovereignty of independent states that were formerly part of the soviet union. such behaviour destabilises the eu's neighbours and is contrary to international law, as it threatens peace between independent countries. the eu cannot therefore currently take the russian side as a trusted partner, as it is acting in breach of democratic principles. russia has even recently been challenging the democratic regime and the rule of law. relations with the russian federation, which is moving away from the values espoused by the eu, therefore need to be reassessed accordingly. the repair and restoration of strategic relations is possible if the russian side respects the minsk agreements, stops destroying ukraine's internal infrastructure and accepts the independence and sovereignty of this state.
in writing ‒ i believe that it is necessary to clearly define the eu's position on the aggression of the russian federation and to review the relations hitherto. but i couldn't support the report, so i stayed. to stop considering russia as a strategic partner (§ 2) or to use overly harsh phrases such as 'strict, immediate and unconditional application of (...) rules' (§ 18) does more harm than good. the eu must strive for a constant dialogue. finally, i consider the call for the repeal of any law of a separate and sovereign state (§ 20) to be an overreach of a competence which does not belong to the ep or the eu.
in writing ‒ current eu-russia relations are very weak following the annexation of crimea and the ongoing conflict in eastern ukraine makes resuming cooperation unthinkable. this is to the detriment of the eu as a whole, of individual member states and of russia. in the final vote i supported the resolution, although i was against the part of the resolution that said that russia was no longer a strategic partner for the eu. in my view, russia has been, is and always will be a strategic partner for its mineral wealth, gas, for joint support in the environment, in the development of new technologies, or as it was recently, in the negotiations with iran, where russia has been very constructive. as in the part of the resolution, i too am of the opinion that in the long term a constructive and predictable relationship between the eu and russia is possible and desirable for mutual benefit, in particular for existing relations in the fields of politics, trade, transport, energy, people-to-people contacts, cross-border cooperation, but also the northern dimension partnership, the nuclear talks with iran, or the middle east peace process.
‒ the russian leadership does not want to improve relations with the european union. the latest list of undesirable persons, including meps, and the new wave of propaganda campaigns are clear evidence of this. europe can only respond by strengthening mutual solidarity and taking a firm stand against acts of aggression.
‒ i supported the motion because i condemn the annexation of crimea by russia. i hope that an agreement between russia and the european union can be reached as soon as possible, as the current sanctions are damaging both parties involved.
in writing ‒ this report on the current state of eu-russia relations comes at a tense moment unprecedented since the end of the cold war. so there is a need to be careful not to add fuel to the fire, but on the other hand the eu must be clear about its position on moscow's behaviour. the consequences of recent events have rendered the current situation hopeless and the russian authorities incapable of engaging in a constructive dialogue with the eu. russia has been in constant violation of the minsk agreements, most recently by issuing a blacklist of meps. russia has increased tensions on the continent and violated international law. i call on the russian authorities to accept the eu's responsibility and to start de-escalating tensions in ukraine. respect for the minsk agreements is the only way to ease tensions between the eu and russia so far, and the best way to resolve what appears to be a deadlock.
‒ the report i voted for stresses that russia can no longer be treated as a strategic partner at this point because of its actions in crimea and eastern ukraine. strategic partnerships must be based on mutual trust and respect for international law. russia is currently not respecting international law and is losing the trust of the eu repeatedly. in the long term, however, a constructive and predictable eu-russia relationship is possible and desirable for both parties.
in writing. ‒ securing energy supply is one of the biggest challenges facing the eu and central and eastern europe is undoubtedly the most affected and vulnerable region today. we need to change this situation with our collective strength. it is our duty to increase the security of supply. the saudargas report has provided a good guide as to the direction in which we should proceed. however, the plenary vote brought together some political groups to vote in favour of an amendment condemning the technology used in research into non-conventional energy sources and recommending that member states do not authorise activities for the exploration and exploitation of non-conventional energy sources until it is proven that they are completely safe. in line with the people's party's position, i abstained from voting on the report, as, on the one hand, the authorisation of mining activities is a competence of the member states, and on the other hand, i consider it of the utmost importance that all possible domestic resources be sought out in compliance with the mandatory standards in order to increase the security of supply in europe.
‒ the importance of energy security has been underlined by the current crisis in ukraine. energy policy has thus become one of the strategic priorities of foreign affairs. it is therefore the eu's duty to develop an energy policy based on close coordination of views and a united approach. in addition to pursuing the objective of energy security, the energy union should develop on the basis of a comprehensive approach and focus on achieving a fully integrated internal energy market, reducing carbon emissions in the energy mix, reducing energy demand, but also on research and innovation.
in writing ‒ the drive to increase economic growth and raise the living standards of the population increases demand for raw materials and energy and their resources. the european union's energy security thus becomes the key to its economic growth, competitiveness and strong political and economic standing. this requires, in particular in the context of the current geopolitical challenges, that the eu and its member states ensure a common energy policy as an integral part of both the eu's internal and external policies. the energy security strategy emphasises the search for ways to reduce energy demand and increase the share of domestically produced energy and the development of new energy technologies, requiring a well-functioning energy market.
in writing ‒ the energy security of the european union plays a key role in affirming europe's strong political and economic position. as the european commission already outlined the main challenges in the energy security sector in may 2014, political impetus from the european parliament is now needed to outline a framework for improved energy security. although the situation has improved compared to the past, the eu is still forced to import 53% of its total energy consumption. it is therefore necessary to implement a long-term strategy setting out strategic objectives with regard to europe's energy security, based on key pillars for reducing energy demand. as energy security issues are often addressed at member state level, regardless of the interdependence between member states, i support the idea of a single european energy security for a more competitive european union and a well-functioning internal energy market. as for the question of russia's credibility as a trading partner, it is clear that it uses energy for political purposes. i therefore support the idea that member states should adopt a uniform approach to foreign suppliers.
in writing. ‒ central and eastern europe is the most exposed to a potential energy crisis. our countries are the most dependent, and i think, especially in today's geopolitical situation, that we have a primary duty to increase security. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union, including the member states, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. in accordance with the position of the people's party, also citing respect for the principle of subsidiarity, i abstained from voting.
in writing ‒ i voted in line with the position of the committee. low carbon nuclear energy continues to make a significant contribution to the eu's domestic energy production. i think the choice of using nuclear energy should remain a matter for the member states.
‒ i supported the european energy security strategy because i see great potential in its implementation for eu-wide economic growth, environmental protection, but also savings for citizens through lower and more efficient consumption for households. i regret that the final vote did not support the strategy. the eu currently imports up to 53% of its total energy consumption, and a significant proportion of this comes from geopolitically unstable regions, threatening the internal security of member states as well as the security of the eu as a whole. one of the solutions to energy security and independence is the commission's priority to make the eu the world leader in renewable energy. renewable energy is often produced close to the point of consumption, creating local sustainable jobs, avoiding the need for a costly distribution network, reducing emissions and being the fastest way to reduce costs for households. as up to 40% of the eu's energy consumption is consumed by buildings for heating and air-conditioning, it is essential to increase the scale and pace of building modernisation and the use of renewable energy sources for heating and cooling. i also think that the proposal to declare 2016 the european year of energy saving is a very good idea, which we would also use to raise awareness among european citizens about how to reduce energy consumption in households through simple and cost-effective methods.
‒ the european union should create the legislative conditions that not only reduce the energy dependence of the member states on russia in the future, but also allow for the all-round promotion of the use of renewable energy sources. it is essential to guarantee the transparency, consistency and continuity of the regulatory frameworks for renewable energy and to avoid retroactive changes in the economic conditions governing investment. the main objective of these actions is to strengthen investor confidence and contribute to the cost-effective development of renewable energy sources.
‒ i did not support the proposal because i do not agree with the instruments to be used to achieve energy security. the proposal focuses mainly on various new obligations aimed at saving energy, which limits the decision-making of consumers and businesses. moreover, the idea that energy security should be achieved largely by mandatory energy conservation is absurd.
in writing ‒ i would especially like to thank my colleague algirdas saudargas for his excellent work on such a complex problem. in addition to his expertise, he has shown a great sense of listening and compromise in order to strike a balance between a large number of positions. but despite his efforts, new and new proposals were coming that made this balance impossible. they were often conditioned not by professionalism, but by party politics, and this report became politicized. i had only seen this kind of thing before in the women's rights committee, and i took it as a normal trend. i am all the more disappointed that this practice is beginning to appear in professional topics and that it will be difficult to find common positions in the future in the face of disagreements within political groups. it is all the more alarming that we are only now awaiting the legislative documents to implement the junker package. although the majority of my political group voted against this report, i wanted to express my appreciation for the efforts of my esteemed colleague, mr saudargas, by abstaining.
in writing ‒ although i found the original proposal clear and acceptable, unfortunately the text as it was finally presented, with all the amendments, focuses mainly on renewable sources and energy efficiency. while these issues are obviously important, the new wording of the proposal over-emphasises them, which has ultimately caused the key short- and long-term objectives relating to the current energy situation to be overshadowed. the creation of a single energy market and the need to end the european union's energy dependence on third country suppliers (the eu's dependence on oil imports is up to 90%, and on gas imports 66%) are particularly important. it is for these reasons, and because in my view the proposal sought to impose legal obligations on energy audits and other burdensome obligations on businesses, that i voted against it. the imposition of such obligations, in addition to creating a disproportionate financial burden for undertakings and additional unnecessary red tape, is not in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. ‒ the adoption of the parliament's decision was motivated by the facts and problems identified in the 2014 annual report of the olaf supervisory committee. the olaf dg has made serious criticisms of the management, governance and case management of the european anti-fraud office, which cannot be ignored. the report strongly criticises the procedure in which 423 cases were opened at one time on 1 february 2012 by decision of the director-general without substantive examination of whether olaf's competence in those cases was based on fraud, corruption or any other illegal activity affecting the financial interests of the union. the access of the supervisory board to the information necessary for the performance of its tasks is also not guaranteed, and the stable functioning of the secretariat of the bank is not ensured. the resolution calls on the european anti-fraud office and its director-general to address the problems. all the necessary conditions should be provided for the effective functioning of the supervisory committee and its tasks, and the european parliament has a duty to speak out in this regard. i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution.
‒ the supervisory committee considers olaf to be a key problem in terms of the effectiveness of its supervisory role and the fundamental differences in the views of the dg and the director-general of olaf on the role of the dg. this makes it impossible for the jit to fully implement its mandate. as this is a very sensitive area of the protection of the eu's financial interests and the fight against fraud, it is important that the european commission takes measures to improve the dpo's ability to oversee olaf's independence, its investigative function, the application of procedural safeguards and the duration of investigations without jeopardising olaf's independence.
in writing ‒ misuse of european union funds and fraud seriously jeopardise and damage the economic and financial interests of the union. this is one of the factors that ultimately also affects the lack of growth in competitiveness and the increase in poverty of the population in the regions. eliminating this problem requires effective and systematic work by olaf in compliance with the legal rules governing this activity. the supervisory committee must be in a position to monitor and control olaf's investigative activities effectively and efficiently, and the rules of control must be set out in a clear and unambiguous manner. any lack of transparency and communication by olaf raises doubts about the functioning and legitimacy of the current status of this office. the parties concerned must therefore do everything possible to eliminate these doubts.
in writing ‒ i voted yes. i agree with the demand for greater efficiency and transparency at olaf, which will ensure a greater number of cases assessed. i would add that the real solution would be to improve the efficiency of the final stage of the investigation, when the case is taken over from olaf by the law enforcement authorities of the country concerned, and that is where we have, unfortunately, within the eu, a still low success rate of free-for-all cases.
in writing ‒ the resolution adopted by the european parliament vis-à-vis olaf was necessary. the office's anti-corruption and anti-fraud activities have been considered insufficient for several years. not only does it not implement the recommendations given to it, but it also shows signs of a lack of transparency in its functioning, problems with the monitoring committee, as well as with the length of the investigation of individual cases. i supported this resolution and i believe it will help to reorient this body, which monitors the use of funds from the european budget and their possible misappropriation.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the resolution against hungary, which is full of omissions and factual errors and is reminiscent of the earlier tavares report on hungary. the idea of a rule of law verification mechanism should not be discussed in the context of such a decision, it is a much more important issue. the decision ignores the subsidiarity of member states and the divergent positions of member states on immigration. i do not agree with the proposals in the resolution, as it deals with the investigation of one member state, intends to subject it to a separate monitoring procedure, while ignoring the practices of other eu member states that violate the rule of law and fundamental rights. the application of those principles must be examined objectively, so that member states whose national minorities are subject to discrimination and discrimination cannot be excluded from the list of those to be examined.
in writing ‒ the situation in hungary has been escalating significantly over the past two years, towards the abandonment of european values by prime minister viktor orbán and his government. orbán's repeated statements about the possible reintroduction of the death penalty in hungary are in total contradiction with the values on which the eu is founded, and his subsequent declaration not to proceed with the reintroduction of the death penalty in hungary only proves that the clearly declared critical stance of all competent eu institutions against orbán's policy is at least partially successful. the european union fully respects the sovereign right of member states to initiate consultations at national level. however, they must reflect the willingness of governments to pursue responsible policies aimed at securing democratic and political solutions and respecting fundamental european values.
‒ the european union is founded on principles that all its member states must respect. the principles do not allow for the existence of the death penalty in eu countries, thus reinforcing the value of human rights, dignity, democracy and the rule of law. this principle has been adopted by all countries that have joined the eu, and their citizens have voted in a referendum to join. opening the question of the possible introduction of the death penalty contradicts and calls into question these values. similarly, public consultation as a means of obtaining the opinion of the public must be based on objective and sufficient information; otherwise it may be misinterpreted and possibly misused. it is necessary for the commission to step up its monitoring of compliance with the treaties and conventions by eu member states and to take appropriate action in good time if adverse effects are detected.
in writing ‒ as a member of parliament who considers the protection of human life to be one of the most important duties that representatives of society have to uphold, i do not like viktor orbán's manoeuvring to re-introduce the death penalty. the death penalty is against the basic common european values and the fact that orbán is thus catching up with a right-wing citizen who would otherwise vote for the extremist jobbik does not justify it. nor did prime minister orbán's presence in the european parliament and his explanations completely remove our doubts. the death penalty has been used in the past in totalitarian regimes including hungary, czechoslovakia and even china to silence political dissidents after rigged political trials. every country that has joined the eu and has agreed to promote common european values has removed the death penalty from its criminal code, and i therefore find it unacceptable that the eu's head of state is toying with this idea.
in writing. ‒ the prohibition of the death penalty is one of the basic criteria for eu accession. eu member states are bound by a number of international conventions. i voted against this resolution because the principle of subsidiarity and the sovereignty of the member states must be respected. the european parliament, in its resolution of 15 december 2003, called for the abolition of the right to vote and stand as a candidate in elections to the european parliament.
‒ i supported the joint motion for a resolution on the situation in hungary. the eu is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights. the repeated statements by hungarian prime minister viktor orbán calling for a discussion on the possible reintroduction of the death penalty in hungary are very dangerous. as serious a topic as the introduction of the death penalty is, it should not be a preference poll or a distraction from social and financial problems. i am pleased that we also criticised the public consultation on migration and the related national billboard campaign initiated by the hungarian government, stating that the content of this consultation in hungary on immigration and terrorism and the language used in it is very misleading, unobjective and unbalanced, thus falsely establishing a direct link between migration and security threats.
‒ freedom, democracy and tolerance are the values that make us europeans. some of viktor orbán's statements and actions are outside these values. at a time when we are facing serious challenges, attempts to remove the basic elements of democracy are extremely dangerous for the security of our entire space.
in writing ‒ i abstained from the vote. of course, i fully respect the rules and principles of the european union. however, in a democratic society, the discussion of reviewing the rules in force is fully legitimate.
in writing ‒ the resolution tabled by the european parliament on the situation in hungary is not, in my view, an example of good parliamentary work. the emotional response to the issues being discussed in hungary, which prime minister orbán explained in the ep at the may plenary, was given room. in my view, the issue of migration discussed in hungary has generated an inadequate debate in parliament, even though it is a serious issue and the subject of debate among member states and in new member states in particular. the european parliament should debate calmly and not throw one member state's head in the sand under an inadequate pretext. this attitude harms and reinforces populism at a time when the european union needs to regain the trust of its voters. i found the call for the ec to come forward with a proposal to set up an eu mechanism for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights particularly unacceptable in the resolution. this mechanism would serve as a tool for member states' control and would involve the fundamental rights agency in vienna. i think that the european court of justice is watching over the respect of the law and the treaties, and anyone who has doubts whether a state or politician is complying or not can turn to the court of justice. the creation of additional bodies only contaminates the legal environment. i did not support the resolution.
written ‒ i did not support the resolution not because i would agree to the introduction of the death penalty, but because all member states have the right to have a debate with their citizens. if hungary goes beyond the debate and develops further initiatives, the commission, as guardian of the eu treaties, is obliged to intervene, as the absence of the death penalty is one of the basic conditions for membership of the european union.
‒ turkey is one of the key strategic partners for the european union and it is therefore important to continue active and credible negotiations that would allow the full potential of eu-turkey relations to be exploited. moreover, the reform process related to turkey's eu accession negotiations can provide an opportunity for turkey to develop a strong pluralistic democratic system for the benefit of all turkish citizens. i therefore believe that relations and cooperation between the eu and turkey will improve and intensify.
‒ the european union stands for the values of respect for human dignity, democracy, equality, respect for and observance of human rights and freedoms, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities, and the rule of law. the union and its member states shall be governed by pluralism, non-discrimination, tolerance, justice, solidarity and equality between women and men. these values are also the basic conditions that all countries seeking to become members of the european union must meet and consequently respect. any failure to respect these values and principles or to implement them adequately is an obstacle to the eu's membership.
in writing ‒ although turkey has implemented several reforms since 2010, this is not enough to secure its accession to the eu. there is no freedom of the press and no complete freedom of the internet, and although turkey has committed to reforms to join the eu, it has still not implemented them for the ninth year. as turkey is a strategic partner for the eu, the eu should become a key democratic pillar for the building of democracy in turkey by promoting common european values for the reform process, as without democratic values, turkey's accession to the eu will be unacceptable. i am concerned about turkey's response to the gezi park protests in 2013 when brute force was used against the population, and therefore i call for a fair trial instead of politicised court judgments. freedom of the media is a priority for the eu, as it is closely linked to democracy and the right to information. i disagree with the turkish government's tendency to impede freedom of speech, ban access to social networks and punish journalists, as it did during the gezi park protests. as in the past, i again call on turkey to translate its commitments into concrete legislation and also to implement them progressively. since democracy is based on the will of the people, reform of the electoral system is necessary to reduce the 10% threshold in order to represent more citizens and thus to ensure the plurality of the political system in turkey.
in writing. ‒ turkey is a key strategic partner for the eu, and it is therefore important to provide the right framework to exploit the full potential of eu-turkey relations. support turkey in building a strong, pluralistic, democratic system and strong institutions for the benefit of all turkish citizens and in strengthening its relations with the eu. the use of critical thinking is also important. the country should be called upon to make a clear commitment to respecting the democratic values and principles that are at the heart of the eu and to amend restrictions on freedom of the press and speech and the independence of the judiciary.
in writing ‒ my position is based on the belief that any applicant for eu membership should first of all meet the copenhagen criteria for accession. i consider the strict fulfilment of the criteria to be the only, but at the same time very important, condition for assessing a country's readiness to become an eu member. turkey has been promised membership but as a candidate country it is falling short in a number of areas and this needs to be said. that's why i abstained.
in writing ‒ i supported the commission's 2014 progress report on turkey, which states that turkey is a strategic partner for the eu in the field of economic and energy security. i also agree that the commission should reassess the way it has conducted the negotiations so far in order to improve relations and cooperation between the eu and turkey. the reform process in turkey needs to be intensified. while there have been changes in the legal and electoral landscape, and in the turkish government's efforts to achieve a comprehensive and sustainable peace process with the kurdish community, there is serious concern about the perception of corruption index and the prosecution of journalists who have reported on corruption. the amendments to the law on the high council of judges and prosecutors and the subsequent numerous transfers and dismissals of judges and prosecutors are also cause for concern. the commission report condemns police raids, restrictions on the right to assembly, restrictions on media freedom, but also points to persistent attitudes about the role of women in turkish society. for better progress, turkey must build good neighbourly relations, in particular by intensifying dialogue with armenia and cyprus. turkey has made considerable progress, but it still has a long way to go before joining the eu in many areas.
in writing ‒ i appreciate turkey's reform efforts in previous years. turkey is a key partner of the european union and it is therefore important that the eu engages in a long-term and inclusive political dialogue, as this can support turkey in further reforms and lead to better respect for fundamental human rights. human rights and respect for them are among the eu's core values and it is therefore essential that turkey, as a candidate country, starts to respect freedom of speech and freedom of the press and does not interfere with critical media.
in writing - i voted against. i welcome all the reform steps taken by turkey, as well as all the steps taken to remove trade and other barriers between turkey and the european union. however, i do not agree with the efforts to bring turkey into the european union, and so i do not think it is right that the amount of pre-accession aid should be increased.
in writing ‒ with this resolution, i wanted to express my concern at the events threatening the security of turkey. the increasing violence, the violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms in the country, the repression imposed on journalists and civil society as a whole are a worrying sign for turkish democracy. as the other parliamentary elections have partly changed the political landscape, i call on the turkish authorities to respect the freedoms sought and i call on them to implement reforms in the area of freedom of religion and belief in a more credible manner. they will also demonstrate this by returning lands belonging to the syrian church and by reopening a greek orthodox seminary. in conclusion, i must reject president erdogan's remarks at a gathering of people commemorating the 100th anniversary of the armenian genocide. i think particularly of his statement when he called pope francis' words about the armenian genocide "foolish". this is unacceptable and unfortunately shows the growing authoritarianism of the turkish president, who has closed himself in on his own security. all these disturbing reasons led me to abstain in the final vote.
the european union has underestimated the importance of the black sea. we see conflict in transnistria, in south ossetia, abkhazia, nagorno-karabakh and lastly the biggest one around crimea. the center of destabilization is in this region, somewhere in the triangle russia, turkey, the balkans. at the moment, not in the baltic region, thankfully. i welcome the report by mr paşcu because it is the first time that it draws attention to the region as a whole, but what i particularly welcome is that its angle of view is the first time that it is the view of the european union as a whole. the european union has not yet considered geopolitical dimensions. what the commissioner told us also had nothing to do with the geopolitical strategy of the european union as a whole. i think that is how the commission, the high representative and all of us should start thinking in terms of the strategy of the european union as a whole.
in writing.– i would like to congratulate the rapporteur for addressing this most timely international issue. the black sea basin, and notably the situation there, requires our utmost attention: not only due to its strategic importance, in both political and military terms, but in regard to our joint and united approach to russia’s behaviour in its neighbourhood and on the international scene. with its military manoeuvres, illegal annexations and violations of territorial integrity, the black sea basin is becoming a region where our democratic values are increasingly contested. also, it is a region where unsettled conflicts and redrawing of borders have taken place. this is completely unacceptable, and must be strongly condemned. we need to speak with one strong voice against such developments, and together with our nato allies and easters partnership countries demonstrate a clear opposition to such behaviour on our eastern borders.
in writing. mr president, i welcome the report by vice-president paşcu and agree with him that it is very important that the eu continues to communicate consistently with russia. the eu cannot accept the forcible annexation of the crimean peninsula. nor do i care about what's going on in russian-backed eastern ukraine today. the situation has not improved in the last few months, but it has worsened. i urge the eu to act more unitedly and decisively to stabilise the situation. it is in our own well-defined interest, as the black sea is a strategically key area for us, and we have to face the reality that the balance has been upset, russia has strengthened its position militarily. this has implications for the whole region and requires a more thoughtful eu policy towards the east. ukraine needs to implement serious reforms to progress towards eu membership. these will be the criteria by which ukrainians judge the eu. at the same time, if we are to be truly committed to supporting ukraine's eu accession process, it is necessary that the eu's assistance and support be experienced by the ukrainian citizens as soon as possible.
i want to point out the enormous power and also the importance of international organizations. the workings of fifa, but also of other giant organizations of various kinds, such as the oecd or the world trade organization, the world bank, the international monetary fund, and many others, are not much talked about. but they are organizations with enormous impact on society. even the top officials are elected through diplomatic negotiations for relatively long periods. their influence is often greater than that of elected representatives in direct elections. they make decisions on matters of principle and are not accountable to anyone. they are not subject to the scrutiny of voters and the media, as is often the case with politicians, and they often do not have to comply with the elementary principles of transparency. scandals like fifa are eye-opening. let's talk about the system of operation of such organizations, not be afraid to ventilate them and build them on sound foundations. so that they serve the society, not personal interests.
mr president, there is a fine line between major sports events and politics. there is no doubt that azerbaijani president aliyev is using the organisation of the european games as a way to promote his country’s international prestige, as did putin with the sochi winter olympics, lukashenko with the ice hockey world championship and as other countries have done as well. however, i have a problem with mixing politics and sport too much – for instance, denying countries the right to host such events or boycotting them. it is counter-productive. isolation is generally not a good policy when it comes to promoting human rights. we must raise our voice for human rights. but the notion that the olympic games, or other sporting events, are only for fully-fledged liberal democracies is wrong, because it means denying them to the majority of sports fans around the world.
in writing every major international sporting event, which is also broadcast on television and radio, attracts the attention of athletes, sports fans and citizens who are only passive observers. in a country where sports events and games are organized, they bring great attention and popularity. the participants and spectators of the games also learn a lot about the country, its history, its present, and the politicians who run the country. i therefore believe that the european games in baku should also be used to draw the attention of the world to the human rights violations in azerbaijan and the imprisonment of journalists who report on the violations of the law. visitors to the games, athletes can also use the space to discuss with the people of baku about how human rights are being violated in their country. the isolation of azerbaijan would harm its people who want to live in a democratic society.
in writing my heartfelt condolences to all those affected by this terrible tragedy, including the families of the more than 8 800 people who lost their lives in nepal, india, china and bangladesh. i appreciate the swift response of the nepalese institutions as well as the effective assistance of the international community. this case also shows the importance of humanitarian aid. however, reconstruction and rehabilitation of the country will require longer-term efforts, and development aid is therefore justified. i firmly believe that life will soon return to normal.
in writing nearly 9,000 dead and more than 21,000 injured were claimed by the earthquakes of april 25 and may 12 in nepal. the country is still in desperate need of humanitarian aid, with relief organizations on the ground warning that the situation will be complicated by the approaching monsoon season. the increased risk of contracting hepatitis and other communicable diseases can increase the number of victims by hundreds. i am glad that this resolution does not forget the most vulnerable, the children. as many as 1.7 million children were affected by the earthquake, 320,000 of them lost everything - homes, warm clothing, access to education, but many lost even more, their families. orphans in particular are at increased risk of abuse, neglect, disease, or human trafficking. i appreciate the efforts of the government and humanitarian organizations to provide these children with the fastest possible care, as well as their temporary placement in monasteries, churches and makeshift camps, but the reports of their disappearance from these places are more than disturbing. although nepal has suspended the possibility of international adoptions and a travel ban for unaccompanied minors, i believe that protection needs to be even more intensive. only then will those children whose families survive be able to return to them as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ the ep report aims to respond to the changes in the strategic relationship between the black sea basin and the surrounding area brought about by russia's illegal annexation of the crimean peninsula. the document highlights that the increasing russian military presence in the black sea and the deployment of nuclear-capable assets in crimea require the continuation and strengthening of sanctions against russia, provided that it does not change its policy towards ukraine. it also stressed the importance of cooperation with the black sea partner states on common security and defence policy and supported the osce's increased presence in the region and its initiatives to alleviate the security situation. in line with the position of the pp group, i voted in favour of the report.
‒ the european union, as well as the un, strongly opposes the military annexation of crimea by the russian federation, which has thus undermined the territorial integrity of ukraine and thereby violated elements of international law and international treaties. the illegal annexation of crimea by the russian federation has fundamentally changed the strategic and military situation in the black sea and in the neighbouring areas. the european union will have to respond to these developments by changing the european security architecture, which is outdated and does not correspond to the latest developments in international relations. but i am against nato intervening in this heated situation by sending troops into the areas affected by the hybrid war.
in writing ‒ the violation of international law on the eastern border of the european union complicates and deteriorates relations with the russian federation and threatens the security situation in the black sea region. the situation is made all the more serious by the fact that this unfavourable situation also allows various extremist groups to carry out illegal activities. the diversity of geopolitical interests naturally influences the diversity of propaganda, which, together with the lack of objective information, affects not only the opinion of the people of the european union and its member states, but of the people of the world in general. any further increase in voltage is undesirable. that is why the representatives of the european union, in close cooperation with the representatives of the member states, must use all the diplomacy, contacts and international conventions and treaties to reverse this unfavourable situation.
‒ the black sea region is the only one of the strategically most important areas and is of crucial importance for the eu's security, foreign policy and eastern partnership, as evidenced by the implementation of the black sea synergy in 2008. the eu rejects the recognition of the annexation of crimea, as by annexing crimea, the russian federation has violated the terms of the un charter, the charter of paris, the osce helsinki final act, and also its obligations under the 1994 budapest memorandum. the annexation subsequently upset the military balance in the region and the russian side now illegally controls the crimean coast and adjacent waters close to the nato and eu borders. i agree that the eu and the member states should prepare a security response to the annexation of the crimean peninsula, as gross violations of international agreements cannot be tolerated. i also support the proposal to call on russia to fully respect the minsk agreements and to withdraw russian military forces from the territory of ukraine. even though russia has not been a reliable partner lately on security issues, i still think that we need to have a constructive dialogue with long-term plans, not go down the road of confrontation. on the other hand, the eu cannot back down from its demands. we must take a firm stand and strengthen our resistance against russia's aggressive tendencies.
in writing ‒ i abstained from the vote. the west cannot ignore russia's aggressive approach, which resembles geopolitics during the cold war. we have a moral obligation to confront him not only with the situation in ukraine, for which he is directly responsible, but also with other 'frozen conflicts' in georgia, moldova and so on. the situation following the annexation of crimea requires a unified approach in the response of the eu states. economic sanctions are not perfect, but at the same time they are the only answer the eu has today. at the same time, however, there is a need to engage in dialogue with the russian federation and to work towards compliance with the minsk agreements aimed at resolving the conflict in ukraine. i see military action as a last resort, which will only increase tensions in the region.
‒ the black sea region is one of the most strategically important regions in the world and is of vital importance to the eu and its member states, in particular in ensuring our security and defence, but also for the eu's neighbourhood policy and the eastern partnership. it should be noted that for the first time since the end of the second world war, this is the area where the annexation of parts of one state to another, contrary to international law, took place. the offensive of the separatists in the east of ukraine, supported by modern weapons, clearly proves that russia is the aggressor in this conflict. and this is a dangerous precedent for the future. what is happening in ukraine is an attack on our european values and we must defend ourselves. when a government questions this, there is no guarantee that other members of the european union will show solidarity with it in the future if it finds itself in a similar situation.
in writing - i supported the proposal. i condemn russia's activities in crimea that are contrary to international law, russian president putin's statements about readiness to use nuclear forces, as well as the violation of human rights in crimea.
in writing ‒ the draft resolution was a reaction to russia's annexation of crimea, as well as other activities of russia related to the ongoing attacks on the territorial integrity of ukraine, georgia and moldova. in taking such action, russia is clearly violating international agreements as well as the military balance in the strategic black sea area, not to mention the threat of the deployment of nuclear weapons in crimea, which would have far-reaching consequences. for these reasons, i believe it is very important that the european union acts unanimously in accordance with the principle of solidarity, and thus shows that it will not ignore the security threats coming from russia. the proposal also stressed the need to develop a security strategy that includes maritime security and called on the commission to support member states' efforts to increase the defence budget. i therefore supported the motion for a resolution in view of its importance, its relevance for the revision of the common security and defence policy and the need for a unified approach.
in writing. football is the most popular sport in the world. the corruption cases involving fifa affect me not only as a politician but also as a private individual and sports fan. i believe it is very important to put an end to all forms of corruption that can tarnish the integrity and reputation of football. the resolution adopted by the european parliament urges the fifa executive committee to implement structural reforms to achieve transparency and accountability within fifa and to ensure open, balanced and democratic decision-making processes. we call on uefa and the national football associations to step up their efforts to implement the fundamental internal reforms of fifa, and in particular the recommendations of the resolution adopted today, by 2016. i voted to pass the motion.
in writing, fifa is rocked by a scandal unprecedented in its history. on 27 may, swiss authorities, in cooperation with us law enforcement, arrested 14 senior fifa officials and charged them with corruption and bribery. the situation was not helped by fifa president sepp blatter himself, who resigned from his position just four days after defending his position as fifa president. it is very important that fifa undergo internal reform and repair its tarnished reputation in the eyes of the european public, but also the world public, as football is a global phenomenon. fifa has seriously damaged the reputation of world football and it is very important that all suspicions of possible corruption, clientelism and money laundering be dismissed, as there are also serious doubts about the awarding of the world cup to the russian federation in 2018 and to qatar in 2022.
‒ sport is a sector of the eu economy that makes a significant contribution to growth and employment. any corruption, match-fixing and other criminal activity, even linked to criminal organisations operating at international level, damages the economic and financial interests of the european union and at the same time significantly reduces the credibility and image of sport in the minds of eu citizens. all of this naturally raises doubts about the ways, sources and legality of sport funding. the commission and the member states must therefore step up the investigative and control function in sport financing and take the necessary measures to eliminate this undesirable situation.
in writing ‒ the recent fifa corruption scandal has far-reaching implications not only for international football but also for the politics of states involved in the organisation of international football events. criminal proceedings have been initiated against fourteen senior officials of the organisation with regard to the allocation of organisational rights to russia and qatar, where there is a threat of human rights abuses, which is contrary to the peaceful ideology of football. it has been found that corruption is widespread and systematic, and not limited to isolated cases. as football should be brought closer together, there is a need to reassess fifa's values as the umbrella organisation for international football. it is unacceptable for corruption to guide the selection procedures in the event of the selection of the organiser, as this undermines a fair process. i therefore support the prosecution of corruption at international level and agree that eu member states should cooperate with each other in uncovering corruption in football, as selection procedures must be transparent, democratic and accountable for corruption offences. fifa is an international organisation without a supervisory board and in need of reform, as its activities have an impact on the general public and the reputation of countries. we cannot allow countries to improve their reputation by money, but by their actions.
in writing. ‒ i support measures to reduce the high level of corruption in fifa. i believe that football, one of the most popular sports in the eu, should be played according to pre-established rules, in the spirit of 'fair play'. i also think it's important to keep the sport transparent to preserve its popularity. to achieve this, i consider that sincere and transparent cooperation between the eu, the member states and fifa is essential. so i voted in favour of the motion.
in writing ‒ i voted for the resolution. scandals like fifa are eye-opening. therefore, we should not only talk about representatives of international organizations, but also about the functioning of powerful institutions that are not accountable to practically anyone. let's not be afraid to air them out and build them on transparent foundations. so that they serve the society, not personal interests.
in writing ‒ the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to impose a fine on the sporting body for not having complied with the conditions laid down in the relevant provisions of the treaty. during this period, we talked about the manipulation of football games, the buying of referees and the manipulation of results through bookmakers. in recent days, scandal after scandal has been unleashed on the international football federation, and new and new corruption scandals have surfaced. football is a game that many people play, both amateur and professional. for young people, many top athletes footballers are role models, they want to follow them and they are role models for them. therefore, fifa's problems need to be addressed as soon as possible by initiating reforms at all levels of fifa's organisational structure. but i wonder, is it just a football problem? where has fair play gone, and is it even possible to return to the original values of a sport that should be bringing people together around the world? let's not allow sport to become a controlled process by a bunch of speculators, manipulators and corrupt.
in writing, sport should teach people the principles of fair play. if its officials resort to corruption, it indicates a great moral as well as an institutional failure. the european union may not interfere in the internal decisions of fifa. but it can create an environment in which everyone is more likely to think twice about giving or taking a bribe.
in writing, i welcome the decision of fifa officials to step down from their positions. at the same time, however, i stress the need for autonomy for private sports companies. i am also convinced that the european parliament should not deal with such matters and therefore abstained in this case.
‒ the revelation of corruption at the highest levels of fifa has demonstrated the state of the entire system. as the most popular sport in the world, raising the hopes of millions of young people, football should be governed by transparent structures, not by those of recent years. although i believe this is a subject that does not belong in the european parliament, i would like to thank my colleague, the belgian member of parliament, mr iv belet, for his work on the report on the future of professional football. i supported the resolution because it sends a clear message to current and future fifa officials.
‒ the integrity of sports organisations is of paramount importance, as both professional and amateur sport play a key role in the global promotion of peace, respect for human rights and solidarity, have a health and economic benefit for society and an irreplaceable role in promoting social inclusion. among football fans there are also many young people who look to footballers as role models, who inspire them and who want to follow. the last thing sports should be associated with is corruption. i believe that the pressure from the european parliament will also help to reform fifa and to restore the credibility of football officials.
in writing. the grey economy in greece is at 22.4% of gdp, the highest among oecd countries. for comparison, the lowest grey economy is in the us at 5.9%, and the lowest in europe is in switzerland at 6.5%. here too, we must look for the reserves that greece has. the commission notes that the greek authorities have not provided any evidence that the greek economy is in difficulty. now that the new government has come in, there's a recession and economic indicators are getting worse. the commission considers that the measures provided for in this decision are in accordance with the opinion of the advisory committee on the restructuring of the greek economy, yet what the new leadership of greece has shown has convinced no one that they are capable of doing so. alexis tsipras and his syriza party are newcomers to the eu's high politics. they found out later that they would either agree to the terms of their creditors or give up the euro. on the other hand, we need to know if the terms of the country's debt relief are clearly defined.
in writing. i consider the european council meeting of 25-26 june 2015 to be very crucial. the eu's leaders will address migration, security and economic governance. uncontrolled migration from syria, iraq and other african countries is causing a rise in resentment in european countries, with groups promoting xenophobia, intolerance and discrimination coming to the fore. while zanda kalnina-lukashevica, on behalf of the eu council, said that there are no quick fixes to the migration crisis and that only a long-term solution will help us achieve a targeted, holistic and balanced approach, which we will apply systematically, step by step, the european council will have to take very concrete measures. measures to help migrants in their plight and to calm the wave of anxiety and discontent among eu citizens.
in writing. the european union's immigration policy needs to be changed. the member states' representatives have to find a way of combining the need for security, mutual solidarity and humanitarian values, which are one of the pillars of our civilisation. solutions must not be taken on the spur of the moment, but must be systematic and permanent. the problem of immigration must be tackled comprehensively and preventively. firstly, there is a need to better coordinate actions to protect the eu's coasts and also to improve cooperation in the search for and arrest of those who profit from human misery. the annual profits from such crime are estimated at up to eur 20 billion, and this money is often mined in europe. first, the causes, not the consequences, of this situation must be addressed. the causes must be addressed where they originate, in the countries of origin of the migrants. the european institutions and individual member states should therefore consider a common strategy to stop illegal migrants in their countries of origin. the development programmes for the countries concerned should serve this purpose. the emerging energy union can also help, as the north africa and middle east region is expected to be one of the sources from which the eu will draw oil and gas in increasing numbers. as economic levels improve, one of the reasons for mass emigration will also disappear.
we have focused too much in europe in recent years on austerity measures. we have invested too little in areas that generate growth and jobs. if we stay on this path, we will enter a long period of low economic growth, low inflation and low unemployment. i therefore welcome a project that attracts private and public funding for those viable investment projects that would not otherwise be realised. however, we must link the project to measures to combat tax evasion and tax fraud, to the use of the euro funds to finance high value-added projects, to better access to finance for smes, including the ecb's measures on the issue of money, to the continuation of structural reforms in the member states, and to the digital market mentioned by commissioner katainen. we have to help the younger generation get jobs. if we can revive the positive mood of the people, it will help us to kick-start growth, employment, living standards across europe.
the underdeveloped social systems of the destination countries in the european union also motivate migrants. yet we are not pushing to eliminate the so-called pool effect. i therefore call on vice-president timmermans to address the removal of the attractive factors for economic migrants. why everyone is heading to select european union countries is already known by illiterate immigrants. the social system of many rich member countries is tempting and permeable like enamel. they are also vulnerable beyond the eu's borders and are a warning to those who could do better at home. without removing the temptations, neither high fences, nor quotas, nor the introduction of internal border controls between eu countries will prevent further migration. i call on commissioner timmermans to report on the motivating factors on the part of the member states, to map their flaws in the system and i ask for an action plan. otherwise there is no frontex border guard or transit country that can stop the crowds once they're on the move.
the jury, composed of the president of parliament, two former presidents, four vice-presidents and two other members, rejected slovakia's sole nomination for the european citizen's prize. we nominated a children's organization that has been organizing christmas carols since 1996 in conjunction with a collection for targeted development aid in africa. last year alone, these children raised almost €1 million. this christian children's organization is founded on the principles of the encyclical evangelium vitae on the value and inviolability of human life. however, the jury finds the encyclical to be in violation of the charter of fundamental rights. it is a blatant attack on all european catholics and a mockery of children who are changing lives and the world for the better. i therefore ask for the annulment of the jury's decision, which, moreover, was adopted by only three of its nine members.
the whole of the european union is currently undergoing a very serious test that it cannot cope with. the migrants have shown us our weaknesses. they are setting up a mirror of the truth about the failure of our export-democracy policy. the schengen border system is failing us, and the shortcomings of the eu's fragmented asylum and migration policy are becoming even more apparent. the readmission and return policy fails. the uncontrolled influx of migrants is fuelling movements that promote xenophobia, intolerance and racism. we have proposed many solutions, but the first one was to be, and we did not propose, to adopt an arms embargo on the export of arms to states where there are conflicts. the arms business is an evil that causes people to suffer. therefore, an arms embargo could be the beginning of efforts to stabilize the situation in north africa and the middle east. then there should be economic, humanitarian, health and social assistance to people in their countries of origin so that they have no reason to migrate.
in writing. ‒ i supported the request for waiver of the immunity of a fellow mep elected for greece. laws must apply to all eu citizens, and neither public officials nor politicians can be exempt. as the deputy prosecutor of the supreme court of greece had requested that the immunity of mep sotirios zarianopoulos be waived in connection with a criminal investigation, the parliament granted the prosecutor's request. sotirios zarianopoulos was alleged to have committed the offence in 2010 when, under threat of physical violence, he illegally entered the premises of the greek public television, disrupting the news and reading his own statement. even if the greek colleague claims that the accusation is politically motivated, by depriving him of his immunity he will have the opportunity to defend himself before the authorities involved in criminal proceedings.
in writing. ‒ it is welcome that the investment package for the european fund for strategic investments is entirely separate from the cohesion policy resources. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance in the context of the union's macro-financial assistance. the eur 5 billion transfer affects the cef by eur 2,8 billion and the h2020 programme by eur 2,2 billion. the reduction in the level of the commission proposal is a success for horizon 2020. the good news is that the program to expand the participation of new member states is not affected by the reduction. the establishment of the efsi will provide a new type of financing opportunity for domestic financial services providers and companies. the fund will also support risk finance for smes and mid-caps across europe. it will help the companies concerned to bridge the capital gap by providing larger amounts of direct capital investment and additional guarantees for high-quality securitisation of sme loans. the efsi will be fully operational by the end of the year. it is estimated that the investment package could add up to eur 330-410 billion to the union's gdp by 2020 and create between 1 and 1.3 million new jobs. i supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ strategic investments are of great importance for all regions of europe at a time when the european union is fighting high youth unemployment and the economic and financial crisis. the european parliament and the council reached an agreement on the european fund for strategic investments at the end of may. this agreement will allow the efsi to start functioning very quickly and efficiently. the outcome of the negotiations is a major success, as it reorients european economic policy towards growth and investment. the efsi will only support high-quality investments, the governance of the efsi will be strengthened and investment in the efsi will be increased through increased co-financing by member states. it is essential that member states continue to adopt economic and structural reforms in order to maximise the impact of the efsi on employment and the improvement of the social situation of the citizens of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the proposed regulation responds to the reduced growth of investment in the european union, which has fallen by 15% compared to 2007 as a result of the financial and economic crisis. this has a negative impact on economic growth, employment and competitiveness. the proposed regulation on the european fund for strategic investments aims to establish a legal framework and budgetary means to support investments and subsequently to adopt measures to enhance the regulatory environment and remove obstacles that hinder investments. the beneficiaries will be mainly small and medium-sized enterprises, which will be able to create new jobs and stimulate the economic market by drawing on efsi financing. at the same time, a european investment advisory hub will be established to act as a single technical advisory hub for the financing of european union projects. investments must support the development of infrastructure, education, health, research, development, information and communication technologies and innovation, the spread of renewable energy and energy efficiency, infrastructure projects in the areas of environment, natural resources, urban development and social sphere.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the european fund for strategic investments is a solution to the economic crisis. our main objective must be to make the european union a competitive economy again, where investment contributes to creating new jobs, thereby reducing unemployment, increasing gdp and also giving national economies a positive outlook. however, i would stress that investment in research plays a huge role in creating a competitive market, because it is only through innovation that we can develop and gain an advantage over our competitors and thus ensure our competitiveness, which will allow us to maintain our leading economic position in the world. i also consider support for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises to be very important, since these organisations represent 99% of the european market and thus play a major role in the future sound operation of the european market.
in writing. - i voted for this report. the european union has still not managed to kickstart the economy since the outbreak of the financial crisis in 2008 and also after the eurozone crisis of 2012. i see the european fund for strategic investments as an attempt at growth. i also welcome the fact that this fund will be coordinated at transnational level, thus increasing the transparency of funding.
in writing. ‒ one year has passed since the idea of the european fund for strategic investments was conceived and its approval. during this time, we discussed and supplemented the amendments in the committees so that the final result of the implementation was as effective as possible. the esif has had its opponents from the beginning, but also its supporters. i personally believe in this fund and expect the projects implemented to bring the expected leverage effect in economic growth and job creation. i consider it important that private capital is part of the investments under this fund, because such investments are more likely to be efficient investments, eliminating unnecessary red tape and delays from planning to implementation. i agree with the opinion of the regi committee that the european fund for strategic investments should also take account of geographical balance, thus contributing to strengthening economic, social and territorial cohesion.
in writing. ‒ smes are the backbone of the european economy and have been hit hardest by the crisis. the investment facility is an opportunity to help them and thus increase employment and economic growth across the union. but it will be up to our government to use its instruments to its full purpose.
in writing. ‒ the investment plan voted today is of great importance for the european union and i have been keen to give it my full support. more than ever, the union needs to develop major strategic projects that will enable it to meet the challenges of the 21st century, and this is precisely what the juncker plan is doing. i am also pleased that the european parliament has played a major role in defining the fund's rules and i would like to congratulate my colleague mr fernandes on his work as rapporteur on such a complex and important issue for the future of the european union.
in writing. ‒ on 15 april 2015, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision to mobilise the egf. the proposal is to mobilise eur 630 000 from the fund to provide technical assistance to the commission. the technical assistance shall be aimed at financing the supervision, the information and knowledge-base platform and the advice to be provided to the member states on the use, monitoring and evaluation of the egf. the amount requested in 2015 is intended, as proposed by the commission, to finance the following activities: monitoring and data collection, information, knowledge platform, administrative and technical support, evaluation. i supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ the this report contains a decision on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. this is technical assistance at the initiative of the european commission. the amount of the contribution envisaged is eur 630 000. this amount will be used for monitoring and data collection, information activities, administrative and technical support in organising meetings, seminars and evaluations. the main objective of all these measures is to simplify the application procedure as well as to promote general awareness of the egf and its visibility.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposes to transfer eur 630 000 from the european globalisation adjustment fund reserve to technical assistance to finance activities relating to monitoring, informing and advising member states and monitoring the use of egf resources. the commission may request the allocation of eur 750 000 per year to finance this activity. the commission must use these resources in such a way as to increase the awareness and efficiency of the provision of egf assistance to globalisation-affected workers, while at the same time ensuring sufficient control over the actual use of these resources.
in writing. - i voted against it. my vote is therefore in line with the ecr group's view that, while supporting measures to create growth and new jobs, it does not consider the european globalisation adjustment fund to be the right instrument to achieve these objectives. the fund does not offer enough efficiency and value for money. moreover, in this case, it is not aid to a particular state, but only funds for the administrative background for the fund in question.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is designed to support workers who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns or the global financial and economic crisis and to assist them in their reintegration into the labour market. the budget for 2015 is eur 150 million. the european globalisation adjustment fund may use 0,5% of this amount for technical assistance at the initiative of the commission to finance the preparation, monitoring, data collection and knowledge base building, administrative and technical support, information and communication activities, as well as audit and control activities necessary for the implementation of the egf regulation. accordingly, on the basis of a commission proposal, we approved an amount of eur 630 000, corresponding to 0,39% for technical assistance. this technical assistance should, inter alia, simplify the application procedures, which would immediately start the process of granting aid to redundant workers without waiting for the approval of the applications, while ensuring greater flexibility during the period of granting the aid.
in writing. ‒ the crisis has shown that europe needs to take steps to improve its economic model and restore its competitiveness. this requires both public funding and targeted investments. however, the potential of economic governance is currently not being exploited. effective economic coordination aims to kick-start europe's engine of growth and jobs and ultimately also to empower citizens. economic and employment policy coordination will be complete when a significant part of this coordination covers all possible means of stimulating the real economy, which would otherwise be left out of the broader coordination of the european semester. i voted in favour of the beres report because i believe that economic policy governance needs to be strengthened if the union is to be a driving force for growth and job creation. this requires the reintroduction of political oversight at the highest level, avoiding any artificial differentiation between action at eu and member state level, and developing more effective means of ensuring that the eu single market truly benefits citizens and businesses.
in writing. ‒ seven years after the financial and economic crisis, the european union is still struggling to cope with its consequences. it must be recognised that the single european currency, the euro, has been saved, on the one hand, by the creation and adjustment of the stability and growth pact, the fiscal agreement, the establishment of the european stability mechanism, the banking union and the strengthening of the powers of the european central bank. on the other hand, we must be critical of the fact that the european union, even with enormous financial investments, is not able to combat unemployment, which is still at 11.5%, in a rapid, efficient and flexible way. in particular, youth unemployment is alarming in some member states of the european union. this is one of the reasons why europe's citizens have less and less confidence in the european institutions and their ability to solve their problems.
in writing. ‒ the report assessed the effectiveness of the legal framework, the state of play of the management of budgetary policy and progress in ensuring coordination of economic policies and convergence of member states' economic performance in accordance with the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the report reflects the economic and financial crisis and the measures taken to alleviate it. it is necessary to stress the importance and necessity of taking timely measures and decisions in economic management so as to be able to eliminate negative impacts on the economy of the eu and its member states.
in writing. - i voted against the berès report. it should be noted that the report aims to recognise greater eu competences in economic and monetary union. i believe that moving in this direction, and therefore seeking to introduce elements of fiscal and monetary federalism, is a step in the wrong direction. respect for subsidiarity and the principle of international cooperation should be a central motivation of every part of eu policy, and i therefore agree with the ecr group's position against this report.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the report, which aimed to assess the effectiveness of the legal framework, in particular whether the provisions governing decision-making had proved sufficiently reliable and whether progress in ensuring closer coordination of economic policies and a lasting convergence of member states' economic performance was in line with the treaty on the functioning of the eu. the report points to certain critical points. the eurozone lacks a proper assessment of its global economic situation, a common diagnosis that those who use the single currency must have. economic and monetary union clearly lacks adequate instruments for a proper discussion of the dynamics that different member states should observe in relation to their fiscal position. the report arose in a situation where, more than seven years after the start of the crisis, the euro was saved by measures including the adjustment of the stability and growth pact, the fiscal agreement, the establishment of the european stability mechanism, the banking union and the governance role of the european central bank.
in writing. ‒ the financial crisis has revealed the fundamental problems in many european countries and the need for structural reforms. however, the emphasis on consolidation over recent years has at times been detrimental to their financing, stalling eu countries' economic growth, increasing unemployment and raising debates about the union's democratic legitimacy. a new way of taking into account the cost of implementing structural reforms when assessing a member state's fiscal situation could improve the implementation of reforms by member states, increase their sense of responsibility and jump-start the european economy. on the other hand, closer integration and a stronger involvement of the european parliament at european level are necessary conditions for enhancing the democratic legitimacy of the eu.
in writing. it is certainly time for society to realize that we are increasingly pushing the limits of the planet and that if we continue to do so, we will not avoid negative ecological changes in the future. if we want to preserve a healthy and viable planet for future generations, we must find ways to reduce the consumption of minerals, fossil fuels and biomass, which are constantly increasing due to population growth, the expansion of product diversity compared to the past and the shortening of their lifespan. because if the global economy continues at its current rate, we're going to hit a dead end by 2050. a secondary raw materials market needs to be created in europe, because valuable raw materials and materials that we obtain at high environmental and social cost end up in incinerators and landfills. we need to focus on fostering innovation and resource efficiency and to focus consumer attention on such environmentally friendly products. resource efficiency requires the interaction of many factors. the european union needs to develop a binding resource efficiency indicator. we need to set clear, clear and ambitious resource efficiency targets and create an environment of legal certainty that ensures wide opportunities for innovative business models and policies.
basically, i'm all for trade agreements, because it's better for countries to trade with each other than to fight wars. that is why i welcome the ttip agreement between the us and the european union in principle, but i have some serious reservations. first, there is a lack of transparency. i've been criticizing this for a long time. i think the text of the agreement should have been published long ago so that all the groups concerned could have their say, and i think this is the water for the mill for the opponents of ttip. second, it is the introduction of new and additional regulations. ttip should primarily serve to remove administrative barriers, but it introduces new barriers and regulations in several places. and thirdly, they are attempts at tax harmonization. the low tax burden is a fully legitimate comparative advantage of the member states, and tax harmonisation means an increase in their taxes. on the contrary, ttip should guarantee autonomy in tax policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution appointing bettina michelle jakobsen as a member of the court of auditors, taking into account the positive opinion of the cor.
in writing. ‒ i supported the nomination as i consider bettina michelle jakobsen, given her career history, to be more than a sufficiently qualified candidate for this post.
in writing. ‒ i support this proposal as it aims at a clear and simple codification of existing texts without altering their substance. the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council lays down the procedures of the european union in the field of the common commercial policy with a view to ensuring and enforcing the rights of the european union in the light of international trade rules, with particular reference to those established under the auspices of the wto, and having regard to the opinion of the european economic and social committee of december 2014 and taking into account the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the european commission.
in writing. ‒ the proposal aims to consolidate existing legislation. clear and more systematic codification will contribute to clearer legislation, to easier handling of the text of the regulation and thus to better understanding and interpretation of its content.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the amended proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down union procedures in the field of the common commercial policy, aimed at implementing the union's rights under international trade rules, in particular those established under the auspices of the world trade organisation, as the proposal was intended to codify the existing texts in a clear and simple manner without altering their substance.
in writing. ‒ i supported the ep's legislative resolution on the amended proposal for a regulation of the ep and of the council laying down union procedures in the field of the common commercial policy for the purpose of implementing the union's rights under international trade rules, in particular those established under the auspices of the world trade organisation. since, according to the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the ep, the council and the commission, the purpose of the proposal is merely to codify the existing texts in a clear and simple manner without altering their substance, the european parliament adopted the commission proposal in accordance with the recommendations of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission at first reading.
in writing. ‒ international trade is a successful tool for creating growth and jobs. i therefore support respect for all eu and wto principles on trade protection.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal as it aims only at codifying the texts currently in force.
in writing. ‒ i support the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on protection against the underpricing of vessels. the european commission proposal has been adapted in line with the recommendations of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the european commission and is a clear and simple codification of the existing texts without altering their substance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour, as the subject of the proposal was only the direct codification of existing and valid texts, without any change in their substance.
in writing. ‒ the landing and processing of fishery products is an important source of resources and jobs for french guiana. however, venezuelan vessels, which have been allowed to fish for several decades, are often used to carry out this activity, provided that landings take place in local ports. however, there is no international fisheries agreement between the eu and venezuela. the whole process involved an institutional dispute, which was based solely on a disagreement on the legal basis, and i therefore support the adoption of this proposal as soon as possible, so that fishing activities in the area concerned can have an appropriate legal framework.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopts a resolution endorsing the declaration concerning fishing in french guiana waters by vessels of the bolivarian republic of venezuela, which represents a significant source of resources and jobs. this procedure and declaration is in line with the judgment of the court of justice of the european union and replaces an international agreement which does not exist between the eu and venezuela and is not otherwise addressed in the community legal order.
in writing. - i voted yes. the processing industry located in french guiana depends in part on the exploitation of living natural resources from its own exclusive economic zone by venezuelan vessels. this should also provide an appropriate framework for the fishing activities carried out in the french guiana economic zone by venezuelan vessels. the establishment of such a framework would transfer the right to fish to venezuelan vessels.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal as i welcome the effort to correct the current lack of regulation of fishing by venezuelan vessels off the coast of french guiana.
in writing. ‒ i support the council position on draft amending budget no 3/2015 for the financial year 2015 inclusion of the surplus from the financial year 2014. the main components of that surplus are the positive budgetary result on the revenue side of eur 1 183 million. furthermore, the outstanding expenditure of eur 142 million and the exchange rate differential of eur 110 million. i would like to emphasise that the adoption of this proposal will reduce the share of member states' contributions to the eu budget by the amount of eur 1 435 million in gni, more than offsetting their contribution to the financing of draft amending budget no 4/2015.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 3/2015 includes in the 2015 budget a surplus of eur 1 435 million from the 2014 financial year. this proposal reduces the share of member states' contributions to the union budget by the gni by this amount, more than offsetting their contribution to the financing of the next draft amending budget no 4/2015.
in writing. ‒ the objective of this resolution was to include in the 2015 budget a surplus of eur 1 435 million from the 2014 budget year. this funding consists mainly of default interest, fines and the positive result of the implementation of the eu's own resources, which is why i am in favour of transferring this surplus to the 2015 budget. however, in line with the position of the cor, i could not agree to the automatic linking of this resolution to the ep resolution on the council position on draft amending budget no 4/2015 of the european union for the financial year 2015, and therefore i voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ it is important that we use the surplus of eur 1 435 million for the development of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the proposal because i do not agree with the political adjustment of the eu budget, which in addition leads to greater redistribution.
in writing. ‒ i support the council's position on draft amending budget no 4/2015 of the eu for the financial year 2015, which is attached to the proposal to mobilise the eu solidarity fund for romania, bulgaria and italy. as this proposal concerns the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund of eur 66 505 850 in commitment and payment appropriations following the two floods in romania, the floods in bulgaria and the floods in italy, it is our duty to provide financial assistance through the esf to countries affected by natural disasters, given that the esf is supposed to show solidarity with the people of regions affected by disasters.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 4/2015 allows the european union solidarity fund to provide assistance to the member states affected by the 2014 floods of eur 66 505 850. the european parliament informed the council that these legitimate requests of romania, bulgaria and italy could be addressed from the 2014 budget. the esf aims to provide solidarity assistance to eu countries in need in a way that is fast and effective.
in writing. ‒ the i abstained on the resolution on the council position on draft amending budget no 4/2015 of the eu for 2015, annexed to the proposal to mobilise the european union solidarity fund (eusf) for romania, bulgaria and italy. i welcome aid to countries affected by natural disasters, in this case floods, as well as the use of esf. the commission has also provided information on the implementation of the budget for the esf in the period 2014-2020 and the budget for the esf in the period 2014-2020.
in writing. ‒ solidarity in the european union is shown in difficult situations that are not caused by human action. i therefore support the use of the fund for post-flood activities in these countries.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal in view of the damage caused by floods in the countries mentioned.
in writing. ‒ the european union allocates a maximum of eur 500 million (in 2011 prices) each year to the eu solidarity fund, which is used to respond to emergency situations in disaster-stricken countries. the member states of romania, bulgaria and italy were affected by floods in 2014 which damaged infrastructure, public and private property. the commission examined these requests. on the basis of the eligibility of the applications of these countries, an aid of eur 66 505 850 is allocated to compensate for the damage caused by the floods.
in writing. ‒ romania, bulgaria and italy were hit by devastating floods in 2014. solidarity is one of the cornerstones on which the eu is built. the applications from those countries for eu solidarity fund were considered valid. that is why i voted to mobilise the solidarity fund for the floods in question. in the case of this mobilisation, the so-called regional disaster criterion will apply, which is a rate of 2,5% of the total direct damage caused by floods.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund is used to provide emergency assistance to countries affected by natural disasters or other emergencies. in 2014, romania experienced extensive spring floods, affecting up to 30 of the 42 romanian counties. the total amount of losses was estimated at eur 167,9 million. romania was also affected by summer floods this year, causing eur 171,9 million in damage. the neighbouring country, bulgaria, was also affected by widespread flooding during the summer floods of 2014 with significant damage in the regions. the autumn 2014 floods affected five regions in northern italy, where floods and landslides caused serious damage to public and private infrastructure, businesses, private property, the agricultural sector and the environment, and also claimed 11 lives. following the request of the three eu states, we have agreed to grant financial assistance from the eu solidarity fund to romania, bulgaria and italy totalling eur 66,5 million.
in writing. ‒ solidarity is demonstrated in the european union in difficult situations caused by natural disasters. i therefore support the use of the fund for post-flood activities.
in writing. ‒ transport policy is an important part of everyday life and our task is to find answers to quality service delivery, taking into account economy, energy efficiency and environmental protection. i therefore support the integrated multimodal ticketing in europe as it provides a range of services that facilitate citizens' mobility and travel within the european union. it boosts tourism and, therefore, the economy. it promotes better integration of different modes of transport and more efficient use of existing infrastructure. last but not least, it allows for the harmonised provision of information to passengers with disabilities, for example on boarding and disembarkation aids, thereby increasing social mobility.
in writing. ‒ the congestion is a europe-wide problem. in 2012, 72,2% of passengers used cars, 8,2% used buses and 6,5% used trains. this situation is particularly unfavourable for larger cities. pan-european multimodal travel information, itinerary planning and ticketing services will facilitate citizens' mobility and travel within the eu, making tourism and the economy more efficient and promoting better integration of different modes of transport and more efficient use of existing infrastructure. they can help to shift traffic to public transport and to target alternative transport options such as bicycle hire, parking close to public transport stops and car sharing. by providing consistent, real-time information, we will make travel easier for people with reduced mobility.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the report, which seeks to remove barriers for travellers across the eu. it correctly identifies the costs and technical problems associated with the creation of an integrated ticketing system. no restrictions should stand in the way of market development in this area. eu citizens should also be able to enjoy the benefits of the union when travelling. this proposal may encourage more frequent use of public transport. the increased demand will also result in higher sales for the carriers.
in writing. ‒ the i consider public passenger transport to be important for multimodal travel, because it ensures the transport of passengers from the beginning to the end of the journey. we face daily problems in travel that could be improved by the integrated sales of multimodal transport documents in europe. i can imagine integrated ticketing as a combination of different transport methods on a single ticket, but unfortunately we currently lack the extensive information to choose the type of transport that is the fastest, most cost-effective, not to mention the fact that such a ticket could be booked and paid for online by the passenger. i see the integrated sale of multimodal transport documents as a major challenge that will make travel more efficient, faster and cheaper. public transport must be convenient for passengers so that they do not prefer individual transport. the integrated sale of transport documents will also contribute to greater transparency and consumer protection.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of making life easier for people. connecting transport information and making it accessible to everyone through modern technologies is a step towards better mobility and the alleviation of congested transport systems. i am pleased that the proposal also takes into account cycling, which is the urban transport of the future.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the proposal because, in the interests of consumer protection, it also in some cases significantly increases the regulatory burden, which ultimately harms the very consumers who should be protected.
in writing. ‒ in the fiscal field, i support three fundamental approaches: fairness, equity and transparency.
in writing. ‒ i support the council's position on draft amending budget no 1/2015 efsi, as this draft aims to transpose the necessary changes to the budget nomenclature in accordance with the efsi legislative agreement, thus allowing the necessary reallocation of eur 1360 million in commitment appropriations and eur 10 million in payment appropriations.
in writing. ‒ the european fund for strategic investments aims to help kick-start investments in the eu that will lead to increased employment and economic growth. the plan is to mobilise and invest €315 billion in the european economy over three years. the efsi will support strategic and economically viable projects that could not be supported by previous eu programmes and would never have been realised without the efsi.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 1/2015 aimed to establish the necessary changes to allow for the reallocation of funds for the european fund for strategic investments (efsi). the slovak republic is also part of the efsi investment plan, which aims to promote the financing of viable investments in the eu, which is why i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i supported the commission's proposal for draft amending budget no 1/2015, which proposes, in line with the legislative proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european fund for strategic investments (efsi), the financing of the guarantee fund and the possible use of the union guarantee, as well as the allocation of appropriations for the purpose of providing advisory support. the resolution stresses the need to ensure transparency, accountability and control of financial instruments and all mechanisms related to the union budget, in particular the efsi. it is also necessary to assess thoroughly and regularly the functioning of such instruments and their contribution to job creation and the union strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. the european fund for strategic investments should contribute to economic growth in individual member states and to support employment in the near future.
in writing. ‒ the eu needs to support investments for jobs. i welcome the establishment of a fund for long-term investment, because while building infrastructure in transport, energy and digitalisation has a long-term return, without quality infrastructure we cannot improve the environment for job creation. i agree with the proposal to strengthen the role and the objective of the eu budget to stimulate growth, competitiveness and employment.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the proposal because i am convinced that the efsi will do more harm than good to the economy. the european union does not need more redistribution and centrally managed investment, but on the contrary, it needs more economic freedom.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the transfer of funds to support the european fund for strategic investments, which aims to stimulate job creation in the coming years, albeit with reservations. the appropriations were transferred from the connecting europe facility and horizon 2020 programmes, which also contribute significantly to job creation, namely in the field of the digital market and research. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget and the implementation of the budgetary discipline.
in writing. ‒ the situation in the mediterranean and the increase in migrants, especially from the african continent, require a strengthening of the protection of the southern territories of the european union. the european parliament already stressed the urgent need for border protection and the related need for increased appropriations when adopting the budget in october 2014. i therefore support an increase of eur 75 722 000 in commitment appropriations and a transfer of eur 69 652 000 in payment appropriations to tackle the migration problem. these resources need to be used effectively to protect the union's southern territories, to mobilise all the elements involved in tackling migration, to save the lives of migrants and to combat smuggling.
in writing. ‒ i appreciate the allocation of resources from the eu budget to strengthen the protection of the eu's southern border. the current situation shows that we need to act quickly and effectively. dozens of people are still dying in the mediterranean, and thousands are waiting in detention camps in italy and greece with no hope of a better future. the increased budget for eu agencies will at least partially improve the situation of refugees and help the southern member states too.
in writing. ‒ i supported draft amending budget no 5/2015, which is a response to migration flows. the increase in migration to europe is on an upward trend and cannot be considered a temporary phenomenon. therefore, increasing the commitment appropriations for frontex, the european asylum support office (easo) and the european police office (europol) by eur 75,7 million and transferring eur 69,6 million from the galileo programme is a first step to tackle the challenges of migratory trends and the unprecedented situation in the mediterranean. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament. even if those agencies recruit new staff, the increase of 16 additional posts for frontex, four posts for easo and three posts for europol is insufficient. in the face of increasing migration, it is important to bear in mind that migration problems are not only affecting southern countries but also central european countries, and when drawing up the eu budget for the next period, it is necessary to allocate funds fairly to all member states dealing with migration and asylum policy.
in writing. ‒ i support increasing the amount of financial resources allocated to protecting our borders, because without them we cannot effectively fight illegal migration.
in writing. - i supported the motion. i agree that the authorities concerned should be given increased resources to deal with the current situation with migrants. i also welcome the fact that the proposal will be budget-neutral.
in writing. ‒ the migration crisis in the mediterranean is very serious. in order to manage it effectively and to help those in need, it is essential to allocate sufficient funds to this end. that's why i supported the resolution. i welcome the fact that we have managed to secure money by transferring funds from other budgetary chapters, thus avoiding a further deepening of the budget deficit and the indebtedness of european taxpayers. the funding will be used to support the functioning of the three eu agencies (the eu agency for the protection of the external borders, the european asylum support office and the european police office) dealing with migration management and to strengthen the two union funds for migration (the asylum, migration and integration fund and the internal security fund) from which individual member states can draw. looking ahead, it will also be key to set the eu budget for 2016 in a good place. in drawing up this plan, we should not forget, among other things, that there is a growing risk of an increased number of refugees from ukraine.
in writing. ‒ the on the basis of the evaluation of the common agricultural policy in 2003, member states agreed to end the quota system for milk and milk products by 31 march 2015. the end of quotas presents new challenges and opportunities for the milk and milk products sector. overall, the sector has a positive outlook on the internal market, but also on the world market, in particular due to the high demand from fast-developing economies. nevertheless, in recent months, the decline in demand on external markets, the volatility of world prices and the russian embargo have put pressure on the sector and created enormous downward pressure on prices. the current eu crisis measures and instruments are unfortunately not tailored to the realities of modern dairy farming. it is therefore our duty to adopt, and above all to ensure the implementation of, measures to promote a competitive and sustainable milk and milk products sector.
in writing. ‒ small milk producers, including those in slovakia, are currently facing pressure from several quarters. in slovakia, this is mainly due to the abolition of quotas and embargoes by russia. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution on the prospects for the eu milk sector. the resolution points out that the surplus of dairy products from some member states creates a major imbalance on the domestic markets, resulting in a sharp fall in prices and a loss of competitiveness for local small producers. the resolution calls on the commission to take urgent action to create new financing possibilities for the member states through the european investment bank, the guarantee fund and the revolving fund.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe that, in view of the expiry of milk quotas on 31 march 2015 and the current situation in the production of milk and milk products, it is necessary to review the implementation of the milk package, which should apply until 30 june 2020. in this context, i consider it extremely important that the commission should prepare new ways of supporting the dairy industry, which is becoming increasingly unstable worldwide. i regret to say that in my home country of slovakia, the milk sector is also in crisis, and i hope that this crisis will not be like the one in 2008 2009, when there was a significant drop in purchase prices in slovakia and dozens of companies stopped primary milk production. although only a very short time had passed since the abolition of quotas, as in europe, the price, which caused the imbalance in the market, became the only regulatory instrument on the market in slovakia. i expect the commission, in cooperation with the member states and the dairy industry stakeholders, to develop effective and appropriate instruments to safeguard against sudden and significant falls in milk prices.
in writing. ‒ the resolution assesses the impact of the measures included in the milk package so far, including the cancellation of milk quotas for small producers and the embargo imposed by russia on imports of our dairy products. i voted in favour of the report because it contains a number of useful recommendations, the implementation of which can help to strengthen the dairy industry: to set raw milk prices more fairly, to increase exports of products to new foreign markets and to create jobs.
in writing. ‒ a greater participation of european businesses in major international projects, particularly in public-private partnerships, could result in significant benefits, particularly in terms of job creation, productivity and competitiveness. these could provide support for economic growth throughout the eu, but also in the host countries. i therefore encourage the participation of eu businesses, especially smes, in public-private partnership projects.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. i agree with the ecr's line that well-conceived ppp projects can be a driver of the economy and infrastructure development. already, they account for about 20 percent of all new infrastructure construction in developed countries.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on eu trade and investment policy outside the eu, as i consider it very important especially for public-private partnerships. they are an important means of achieving economic growth, innovation, competitiveness and job creation, both within the single market and abroad, and play a strategic role in the modernisation of infrastructure, in particular energy, water, roads and digital. eu companies have sufficient capacity to compete and implement eu trade and investment policy outside the eu, even though they are characterised by a long life cycle, sometimes ranging from 10 to 30 years. the commission should therefore ensure that union trade agreements contain the necessary conditions to enable european companies to compete with domestic companies abroad on equal terms.
in writing. ‒ international trade is a successful tool for creating growth and jobs. i therefore support the proposal that the commission take steps to promote the involvement of smes by removing the barriers to their participation in public-private partnerships in trade and investment agreements with third countries. i share the view that greater participation by eu smes in large international public-private partnerships could lead to job creation, higher productivity, greater competitiveness and the development of innovation in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal because i agree that the commission should work to expand the scope for ppp projects. ppp projects can in many cases be a much more efficient way of implementing public projects. however, it should be stressed that the increased efficiency of ppp projects is not automatic, and that the expansion of the possibilities for exploiting ppp projects must not be at the expense of increasing the overall regulatory burden.
in writing. ‒ the the report of the european commission and the study of the university of wageningen submitted to the european parliament in january 2015 show that the current fruit and vegetables scheme is too complex and lacks legal certainty. the very absence of legal certainty is a significant obstacle to increasing the rate of producer organisation, as farmers who set up such an organisation may theoretically be required to reimburse eu funding in the event that the recognition of such an organisation is withdrawn or contested. i therefore agree that the european commission should step up its efforts to protect farmers from the unfair trading practices of large retail chains and that the european parliament should address this issue more fully in the report to be prepared by imco in the coming weeks.
in writing. - i voted yes. the common agricultural policy (cap) has reduced its regulation of agricultural markets over the past 20 years, allowing market forces to be more production-oriented. the union has linked this process of liberalisation to a policy of strengthening producer organisations in order to empower farmers to act in defence of their interests. examples are the collective selling of their products or the value added to products through processing directly on the farm. this report gives a fairly comprehensive picture of the state of the sector in the eu. it also sees problems that are still unresolved, such as the low bargaining power of producer organisations in the supply chain. in this case, farmers need to be better protected against unfair trading practices by large retailers.
in writing. ‒ fruits and vegetables are important elements of a healthy, balanced diet, whether as part of a main meal or in another form. no need to convince anyone of that. the layman knows this, and so do the experts. nevertheless, it must be noted that the consumption of fresh fruit and vegetables in the eu in 2012 was 387 g per capita per day, a decrease of 8,7% compared to 2007 2011. it remains to be hoped that this decline will not continue in the next period. i supported the report, but it is worrying that the total eu agricultural area under fruit and vegetables fell by 6% between 2007 and 2011, and farmers either switched to other crops or, in many cases, left farming. i come from a region of slovakia where growing fruit and vegetables was a tradition. after the generation change, today's farmers have abandoned this activity. i personally see the problem in the fruit and vegetable sector not in the production but in the sales itself and the lack of competitiveness of our supermarkets. i also think that cap support in this sector at the level of 1.5% of the total value of eu production is insufficient.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from the vote on the motion. while i welcome the effort to simplify the rules, i reject the effort to increase the allocations.
in writing. we've heard about important issues, but when i hear solutions being proposed on each topic, i often think of gandhi's quote, "be the change you want to see in the world". europe is suffering from an identity crisis, and we are cutting ourselves short by hesitating about our immigration policies, or our freedoms, such as the idea of cutting off the schengen system. it is time to make our europeanism a key priority, as this common project is threatened by six referendums. this includes the traditional diversity of europe, the interactions and coexistence of the indigenous peoples living here. it is time to take concrete steps to protect indigenous minorities by creating a two-pillar system of minority protection.
in writing. we're preparing the budget for next year. we need to think ahead now so that we don't have a repeat of 2014 in three years' time. at the end of last year, the eu owed almost eur 25 billion in unpaid invoices. we have no idea what the eu has done to cities, towns, hospitals, small and medium-sized businesses with these unpaid invoices... what if unpaid invoices caused suppliers to lay off or they passed the problem on and negative chain reactions of non-payment and distortion occurred? i know people in local government who have not used the funds because they saw problems with their colleagues. this could have resulted in lower drawdowns of the european funds in my country as well. we need to know the consequences of this default so that we can prevent it in the future. i therefore tabled an amendment which was adopted by the group of the party of european socialists. we'll be voting on this motion as a group.
one of the amendments draws attention to the risk of excluding 'those who interrupt their careers because of family obligations, such as family carers'. this is an alibi, since even in countries where paternity leave is compulsory, it is mothers who devote the most time to caring for the children and the household. the logic of such proposals is, in my view, upside down. they do not try to motivate employers to give work to mothers and create a suitable working environment for them. instead, they want women to pay other women to care for their children. the unblocking of the directive on women's representation on company boards, which this proposal calls for, is elitist in my view and does not address the situation of the majority of mothers.
i congratulate mrs schlein on her report. in recent years, we have seen that excessive debt is not just a problem of developing countries. the combination of domestic populism and irresponsible borrowing has brought some european economies to the brink of collapse. the differences in numbers are huge, but the problem is still the same: excessive debt payments are draining the life out of the economy, and it no longer has the strength to make the necessary reforms. the debt relief, which is not conditional on a commitment to adopt systemic reforms, leads to further indebtedness. the only way forward is through dialogue between creditors and debtors to find the balance that is necessary for sustainable development. this principle must apply equally to ethiopia and greece. but the key premise is the recognition of the responsibility of debtors and creditors, not referendums that reject it.
in writing. just as it was a mistake to accept greece as a member of the euro area, it is a mistake to be too soft and too tolerant in the negotiations. it is becoming increasingly clear that the greek prime minister understands only the word of strength and considers excessive tolerance on the part of his partners as a sign of weakness. if the current greek government is playing at leaving the eurozone, it should be obvious to everyone that no european politician and no european institution can prevent this. the greek government is primarily responsible for the future of greece, and if the greek government decides to leave the euro area and reintroduce its own currency, it should be helped in this process. in this context, the key phrase was uttered by german chancellor angela merkel, who stated that the european union's task was to protect the euro and the stability of the euro area. the eurozone is in a situation where there is no good solution. whatever solution is adopted, it will affect slovakia as a member of the eurozone. the public statements of the slovak prime minister robert fico only prove that he deeply underestimates the citizens of slovakia and that he does not understand the european processes.
in writing. the greek prime minister's speech in the ep was highly anticipated, as the greek problem is now a matter of concern to all the european institutions. i was personally very disappointed by the greek prime minister's speech. his speech was full of phrases about democracy, solidarity, the inability of the eurozone to find a solution to the crisis in greece. he's asked for help, he wants a deal, but he hasn't mentioned any concrete measures to restart the economy and reduce greece's debt. after the weekend referendum, greece is euphoric, celebrating, but its leaders should act now. take action in the banking and financial sector. in the other period, the greeks exported to foreign banks billions of euros which are currently missing from greek banks' balance sheet. further concrete decisions must be taken very quickly, since no one wants to do business with greek companies in the context of commercial relations, unless they pay in advance. there is an urgent need to address the various privileges - for the islands, the church, the soldiers... in a country of ten million people, greece has the luxury of having more than 800,000 civil servants. the government must adopt reform legislation, open markets to investors and do everything possible to avoid loss of tourism revenue before the summer season.
rapporteur.– mr president, the european union needs a more strategic, ambitious and forward-looking neighbourhood policy. setting this policy right is currently one of the greatest challenges in the eu’s external relations. it is in our interest to have a stable, secure, prosperous and democratic neighbourhood. i call therefore in my report for us to go back to basics, to reinforce the creation of an area of prosperity, stability and good neighbourliness. we are facing new challenges in our neighbourhood: the crisis in ukraine, developments in the southern and eastern neighbourhood, migration, terrorism, energy security. in a situation like that, the eu needs to be able to react promptly to changing realities. more than ever, we need a politically- driven neighbourhood policy. the eu needs to show leadership and vision. we need to be aware of the diversity of our neighbourhood but, at the same time, keep the single policy framework. it is understandable that countries in our neighbourhood have different ambitions and expectations. we need to be ready to differentiate between the partners but expect results in the shape of reforms from those who show a clear interest in closer relations with the eu. faced with numerous crises, we need to use our foreign policy instruments in a more flexible way. we should be able to mobilise sufficient resources through our financing instruments. i call, therefore, for this policy review to be reflected in the mid-term review of the external financing instruments. more importantly, our know-how may often be more important than money. we need to look at the possibility of using it more efficiently in processes of state-building, transformation, democratisation or conflict resolution. support for democracy, human rights and the rule of law needs to stay at the heart of the reviewed policy. we need to strengthen partnership with the societies in neighbourhood countries and promote the values which are at the core of the union. the reviewed policy needs to include numerous aspects of security. therefore, i propose including support for capacity-building and state structures able to deal with the security threats in countries affected. we also need to strengthen our partners economically. the eu is the model for economic development but also provides the opportunities for neighbouring countries to broaden their markets. therefore, we have to be open to closer economic integration with our neighbourhood partners. the eu is a successful project of regional integration and as such should be at the forefront of supporting regional cooperation. we have a great deal of experience which can help our neighbours to work and come closer together. i support strengthening the platforms for such cooperation like the eastern partnership and the union for the mediterranean, but also cooperation at the lower level of local and regional authorities. as the saying goes, we do not choose our neighbours but we can choose the relations we build with them, so let us do just that.
rapporteur.– mr president, first of all, i would like to thank all of the nine colleagues who stayed this long and contributed to the discussion. i did not mention it in the beginning, but i would also like to say that it was a very nice project to be rapporteur for this report, and to work with the shadow rapporteurs who came from different political groups but were a team guided by the principle that everybody wanted to contribute positively in order to achieve results in the future, because everybody agrees that the european neighbourhood policy is a very important part of eu external policy. it was really a very interesting cooperation. i would like to offer my thanks and appreciation to commissioner hahn for the many discussions which we had with the representatives of the commission and for his consultation paper, which really focused on the most important issues of the european neighbourhood policy. i think this was a very interesting and good debate; there were many views expressed in it. thank you for your appreciation of my work. some of the criticism was levelled especially at the fact that there are not many results which the enp has achieved since its inception in 2004. i can agree with that, but we learned our lessons, and that is why this report is very timely. it contains many issues and principles which could be used in order not to repeat the mistakes which we committed and to be more prepared for the fast-developing situation in the neighbourhood countries. there was only one statement from which i have to distance myself fully. it was the one which portrayed the eu as the military threat to its neighbours and the institution which causes all bad things in the neighbourhood. nothing is more divorced from life, and i think this i have to reject very adamantly. i think this debate also showed that we are all interested in having an efficient, pragmatic european neighbourhood policy which would serve all the eu countries’ interests and also the interests of our neighbours. so let us hope that this will be the final achievement of this report and of the directive which is being prepared by commissioner hahn for this autumn.
today we remember with deep respect those who died in srebrenica 20 years ago, and we express our condolences to those who lost their loved ones. their grief is our european grief today. the srebrenica genocide must not be forgotten. it is our human and moral duty to remember these events and to make it clear that nothing like this can and must ever happen again. colleagues, i would like to thank all of you who still wear the srebrenica flower as a symbol of memory, but also of hope. i believe that together we can contribute to finding reconciliation and bring hope for a better future to bosnia and herzegovina.
in writing. during this plenary session, we commemorate the 20th anniversary of the srebrenica genocide. in july 1995, 8,372 men and boys were killed in the massacre in the muslim enclave of srebrenica. this massacre is considered the worst in europe since the end of world war ii. the european parliament's committee on women's rights has called for the eu to take action to combat violence against women and girls. it was an honor to meet her and the other survivors. during the interview, saliha osmanovic told me that despite the huge tragedy, she does not feel hatred in herself. and most of all, she made it my heartfelt wish that we never forget what happened in srebrenica 20 years ago, and that we pass this memory on to future generations so that nothing like this ever happens again.
rapporteur.– mr president, a very small amendment: in the second line of paragraph 7, the word ‘for’ is deleted and instead, the words ‘with willing’ are inserted, so that the text reads ‘calls on the vice-president/high representative to develop proposals for cooperation with willing european neighbours based on the model ...’. i hope that everyone can accept this.
in writing. ‒ i think the idea of creating a common trade and investment area with the us is a good idea in a globalising world, but the negotiations will be lengthy. the eu's position is not clear on many important issues, as is shown by the several hundred amendments to the resolution, and i cannot therefore vote for it at the moment.
in writing. ‒ there is no doubt that the ttip negotiations are of great importance to both parties involved, as the adoption of the partnership in question would change the situation in many areas in europe and the us. however, we must not forget the differences that are very marked between the european union and the usa, especially in the field of worker protection. it is our task to ensure that an agreement is adopted which guarantees full respect for the european union's fundamental rights standards through a fundamental rights clause as a standard part of the european union's trade agreements with third countries. it is important that not only large multinationals profit from this agreement, but that people working in small and medium-sized enterprises in the european union do not lose their jobs.
in writing. ‒ we have given the commission a mandate to further negotiate an agreement aimed at securing growth and jobs on both sides of the atlantic. both in the eu and the us, there are today bureaucratic obstacles equivalent to customs barriers of 10 20%, and they impede market access mainly for small and medium-sized enterprises that are unable to bear the additional costs. by removing trade barriers, we will facilitate trade in goods and services, and we will bring new investment to europe and the united states. for europe, the agreement will bring almost €120 billion a year and more than a million new jobs. all negotiations on the eu side are conducted under one strict condition: we will not reduce the levels of protection we have in europe today. this applies to health, the environment, consumer protection, but also to social standards and the protection of workers. us companies will not be favoured over domestic companies, as has been the case since 1991 in slovakia. the system for the settlement of investor-state disputes will be subject to democratic principles and control. any disputes will be dealt with transparently by publicly appointed, independent professional judges at public hearings. the jurisdiction of eu and member state courts will be respected and private interests cannot prevail over public interests.
in writing. ‒ eu member states are moving closer to a huge agreement with the us on a transatlantic trade and investment partnership to boost trade in goods and services between them. however, negotiations cannot focus solely on improving economic indicators and trade statistics. we must uphold the eu's high standards for the environment, health and food safety, which are now a model for the whole world, even at the cost of not accepting the agreement. i strongly oppose any reduction in the high standards of consumer and worker protection or in social standards, and i also oppose any limitation of the regulatory powers of the member states. in the name of trade cooperation, the protection of the health of citizens in key areas cannot be denied. in my view, therefore, the agreement should not cover certain areas of public health, such as public health services, genetically modified food, the use of hormones in cattle breeding. in conclusion, i would like to express my regret that the recommendation for negotiations for the european commission is only non-binding and that the european parliament has no formal powers to enter into or bindingly influence trade negotiations. however, at the end of the negotiation process, we will only have to give our opinion on the final form of the agreement by a flat-rate agreement or rejection.
in writing. - mr president with the world around us making a series of agreements on common markets, with russia working with china, china with india and indochina, and with the south american, pacific and united states free trade agreements soon to be concluded, the european union simply cannot pretend that it does not need to expand its markets. these are two equivalent economic systems, with mostly balanced trade indicators, which would only increase if the legislation of the two great powers were gradually harmonized with each other, thus avoiding unnecessary licensing, customs and administrative obstacles. in practice, this would mean more supply and better prices for consumers and traders, and, while it is true that it would bring increased competition, it would also double the internal market. we now have the opportunity to create the strongest bilateral economic bloc that can define international norms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which makes recommendations for the ttip negotiations. trade cooperation between the eu and the us can bring higher economic growth and more job opportunities for our citizens as well. however, the negotiations must be transparent, which is a basic condition for the democratic process in our society. otherwise, the negotiations will be accompanied by suspicion and mistrust in the eyes of eu citizens. the agreement must also be based on the equivalence of the two partners and must not weaken the states or lower the quality and safety standards of the products.
in writing. ‒ this eu-us agreement is a great asset for us. trade has traditionally created jobs and such a large common market will bring 27 600 jobs to slovakia. ttip also sets standards for world trade. that's why he has my support.
in writing. ‒ i agree with all the calls for the removal of administrative barriers between the eu and the us, as well as calls for greater transparency in the ttip negotiations. i also agree that ttip should not lead to a reduction in social, environmental and other standards. while i consider many of these standards to be harmful to consumers themselves (from the ban on standard light bulbs to the ban on 'powered' vacuum cleaners), i believe that the review of these standards and regulations should be done through standard legislative processes, which are much more directly influenced by eu citizens themselves, rather than through ttip. however, i strongly disagree with many of the proposals in the report which seek to weaken the removal of administrative barriers or even to call for the creation of new ones. for this reason, i abstained from the vote on ttip.
in writing. ‒ at the plenary session, we endorsed the recommendations for the commission's negotiators for further negotiations with the us on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip). i welcome the fact that many of the issues raised by the agreement have been clarified during the discussion. in its opinion, the commission confirmed that ttip would not affect eu public services and would not undermine the strength of the eu or the national parliaments of the eu countries. nor will ttip jeopardise eu basic legislation in areas such as food safety or environmental protection. on the contrary, the conclusion of this agreement opens the door to a new market for europe, and thus for slovakia, which will also bring new job opportunities.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the legislative resolution on the conclusion of the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the eu and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the eu, as the aim of this resolution was to introduce simple technical adjustments to the agreement. the signature of the additional protocol was also necessary for the republic of croatia to become a party to the stabilisation and association agreement between the eu and the republic of macedonia.
in writing. ‒ enlargement has proved to be a success story, and i therefore support its continuation in the so-called western balkans. the accession of one of them, croatia, is a motivation for the others and at the same time a proof that the balkans are developing democratically and peacefully.
in writing. ‒ since the agreement merely reflects a changed legal status, and therefore the accession of croatia to the eu, i supported the proposal.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the council proposal for the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of serbia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union.
in writing. ‒ the next step in serbia's rapprochement with the eu, following the accession of another of the so-called western balkan countries, croatia, is both a motivation for the others and proof that the balkans are developing democratically and peacefully.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the proposal of the council for the renewal of the agreement on scientific and technical cooperation between the european union and the government of the republic of india, and having regard to the council decision of 25 june 2002 concerning the conclusion of this agreement, i agree to its renewal.
in writing. ‒ it is important that the eu develops cooperation in science and technology with its partners in the world. cooperation between the eu and india in this area has improved in recent years, as a result of india's participation in horizon 2020 (for the period 2014-2015). i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, which gives its consent to the renewal of this agreement on scientific and technical cooperation between the eu and india.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal because i agree that scientific and technical cooperation between india and the eu can continue unhindered.
in writing. ‒ taking into account the draft agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the faroe islands, which associates the faroe islands with horizon 2020, and in the context of the council's request, as well as the recommendations of the committee on industry, research and energy, i agree to the conclusion of this agreement.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the faroe islands have been successfully involved in the eu's seventh framework programme for research since 2010. the new agreement will allow the participation of the faroe islands in most of the horizon 2020 challenges, which are an appropriate instrument for the development of research and innovation, and i therefore welcome this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal because i welcome further deepening of cooperation between the eu and the faroe islands.
in writing. ‒ i support the development of the european union's economic environment, in agreement with the people's party. the objective is to achieve cost-efficiency, reduce the administrative burden on operators in order to increase competitiveness. job creation is primarily a business task, not a government one, and this requires clear rules, but achieving transparency cannot mean increasing the operating costs of european economic organisations. it is essential to establish a framework, both economic and legal, which enables and promotes economic recovery and job creation. this was the aim of the report adopted today, especially when the remuneration policy and the long-term commitment of shareholders are at stake. however, i did not support the so-called country-by-country reporting in the report, as i do not believe that a reporting obligation similar to the oecd rules on the large enterprise tax avoidance exemption (beps) has a place in sectoral legislation similar to this directive.
in writing. ‒ the european commission's april 2014 proposal on shareholder engagement aimed to strengthen the long-term perspective in the governance of listed companies. in particular, the aim was to ensure that the role of minority shareholders in the governance of companies was more transparent, more influential and easier to manage. the basic idea was to suppress the demand for high short-term profits and to focus on the long-term perspective and to emphasise the long-term interests of the companies. encouraging greater shareholder engagement is one way of achieving a long-term perspective for companies.
in writing. - i abstained from the vote. i consider it unfortunate that a large number of amendments have been incorporated into the text of the document, which encroach on the rights of shareholder groups and, moreover, seek to introduce burdensome obligations which are contrary to the current set-up of the legal systems of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution because the resolution adopted contains important instruments to combat tax evasion and avoid tax fraud. the obligation for large companies to disclose, in the financial statements of the countries in which they operate, the amount of pre-tax profits and losses, tax on profit or loss and public subsidies received is one of the steps taken to combat tax evasion. we have amended the commission's text to allow shareholders of listed companies to vote at least every three years on the remuneration policy of executives. the decision whether the votes of the general assembly are binding or advisory will be taken by the individual member states. this is an important step as the corporate remuneration policy for managers should be in line with the interests of society and should set out the criteria for a fixed and variable remuneration component including all bonuses, allowances and benefits.
in writing. ‒ i support the involvement of shareholders in the management of companies. i agree that in corporate governance they play a significant role in improving the financial performance of companies as well as in increasing transparency.
in writing. ‒ the proposal aims to make structural changes to the emissions trading system to address the surplus of emission allowances, currently estimated at over eur 2 billion, and thereby promote the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in a financially and economically viable way. the european commission has thus accepted the european parliament's call to address the shortcomings of the ets, in particular its inflexibility in the supply of allowances needed to adapt to changing market conditions or to protect the ets against unexpected shocks in demand.
in writing. - mr president first of all, i would like to say that i support reforming the emissions trading system through the introduction of a market stabilisation reserve. i believe that the market stabilisation reserve will act as an incentive for companies to invest in research and development. i am confident that the market stabilisation reserve offers organisations a solution and a way of working together that will not encourage companies to move their production to regions outside the eu where emissions requirements are much lower, but to develop new technologies that reduce co2 emissions, positively affect the level of pollution and thus contribute to creating a better living environment for our citizens. it is crucial to make it easier to meet our 2030 climate change goals.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the proposal because i reject the commission's manipulation of the emissions trading market. the aim of the emission allowances was to reduce global greenhouse gas emissions. that is exactly what is happening, and the emission allowances are serving their purpose. the commission should therefore not intervene in this market simply because the price of these licences does not meet its expectations.
in writing. ‒ this proposal improves the working conditions of seafarers working on board ships flying the flag of a member state of the european union and corresponds to the revision of five directives from whose scope seafarers were originally excluded. given the improved situation and the agreement of the main social partners at european level, we can now eliminate this discrimination and thus avoid unfair competition between member states. i also welcome the balance that has been struck between better protection of workers and maintaining the competitiveness of the maritime sector, which is one of the major challenges for the european union in the future.
in writing. ‒ the european union must legislate to ensure the same minimum basis of rights and obligations for all employees. pursuant to article 153 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), it is for the european parliament and the council to adopt, by means of directives, minimum requirements aimed at improving working conditions, protecting workers at the end of their working lives, informing and consulting workers and creating a working environment which protects the health and safety of workers. however, this must not impose disproportionate costs on employers, which hamper the development of smes and could therefore also have a negative impact on employment in this sector. this directive will help to improve the working conditions of seafarers in all eu member states and will contribute to their equal treatment and to the elimination of discrimination in their employment by employers in the member states.
in writing. - i voted yes. the maritime sector has certain specificities that had to be taken into account in order to improve the conditions of seafarers working on ships flying the flag of an eu country. the social partners have recently reached agreement at european level on this ec proposal. this makes it possible to make some progress and to eliminate discrimination against seafarers and unfair competition between member states. it is positive that a balance has been struck between better protection of workers and maintaining the competitiveness of the maritime industry.
in writing. ‒ the social partners at european level have reached an agreement that allows us to make some progress and eliminate discrimination against seafarers. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that, like workers in other professions, seafarers have the same right to a safe and secure workplace, with safety standards, fair working conditions and decent living and working conditions, including social protection and vocational training. i welcome this attempt to create a level playing field for all employees covered by the existing exemptions and i believe that these measures will also help to stem the growing shortage of maritime professionals, officers and crew members in the future. i expect the commission to find other ways to motivate young people to take up employment in order to make the conditions in this sector more attractive and thus reverse the further decline in the number of young people from the union working on ships flying the flag of one of the 28 eu member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the motion because i am against the removal of the eu labour law exemptions for seafarers. the proposal not only increases the eu's powers at the expense of the member states, but also necessarily harms the seafarers themselves, whom it is intended to protect.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement for scientific and technical cooperation between the european union and the european atomic energy community and the swiss confederation on the association of the swiss confederation to horizon 2020 and to the euratom research and training programme contributing to horizon 2020, governing the participation of the swiss confederation in the iter activities carried out by the fusion for energy joint undertaking.
in writing. ‒ the the unemployment rate in the union was estimated by eurostat to be 23 815 000 in january 2015, of which 18 059 000 were in the euro area. this is a consequence of the economic and financial crisis and the failure to take effective action in a timely manner. this situation has an impact on the poverty, social exclusion and quality of life of the eu population. it is therefore essential that the employment strategy of the eu and its member states respond flexibly to unemployment trends and their consequences. employment policies must be prepared for all groups of employees, with an emphasis on the low-skilled and those with reduced or reduced capacity for work. investment needs to be directed towards sectors that will create sustainable jobs. member states must closely monitor employment in their country and take measures in advance to reduce unemployment and prevent social exclusion. the process involves cooperation with the social partners, which will lead to an appropriate assessment of work, addressing health care, social and transport services. it is a difficult but necessary process, starting with education in schools, supporting the training of young people and adults, and ending with proper care for disadvantaged and elderly populations. at the same time, member states must make effective and efficient use of eu instruments, in particular the esf and the efsi.
in writing. ‒ the as regards the report on the proposal for a council decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states, the basic priorities are, in my view, clear. the first priority of all eu and member states' employment policies remains the elimination of the deplorably high unemployment rate, especially in the regions. giving people decent jobs is the best way to create economic growth and fight poverty and social exclusion. i believe that a variety of forms of job creation need to be developed and promoted, responding flexibly to changing demand and supply, including increased investment, particularly in the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, micro-enterprises and also family businesses. the second priority is to ensure that wages in all member states provide an adequate income for subsistence and a decent life. in the long term, the often unjustified but marked differences between member states should be gradually reduced.
in writing. ‒ the eures database was a good idea, a real opportunity to reduce unemployment, especially among young people under 25. however, it is important to face the fact that in many member states the unemployment rate is well above the eu average of 9.7% and has been increasingly difficult since the crisis. the root of the problem is often incompetence. our education system is simply not in line with the market demands. the solution could be to further propagate dual training. this would enable young people and employers to really find each other. i also think it is very important to support small and medium-sized enterprises. we shouldn't punish them for creating jobs. in slovakia, for example, the situation is that many private entrepreneurs only employ their employees informally or do not want to pay them more than the minimum wage, precisely because of the high burden of payroll taxes and social security and compulsory health insurance. i think this is a huge problem, and it would be a challenge for us to address this issue as well.
in writing. - i abstained from the vote. despite the positive aspects of the report, such as reducing the bureaucratic burden on smes, it does not offer new solutions to reduce the high unemployment in the eu, especially among young people. it merely mentions a number of existing measures. i find the gender ideology in the document problematic in the form of the obligation to ensure gender equality, including equal pay for men and women in general.
in writing. ‒ i support the decision to leave tax and social matters to the member states, thus preserving the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. ‒ i fundamentally disagree with the proposal submitted. centralization of labour law at the european union level is a guaranteed way to reduce the already low employment and competitiveness of the eu.
in writing. ‒ the guidelines aim to help member states to combat unemployment. although the report also makes good recommendations on improving the labour market position of people with disabilities, the importance of inclusive education and reducing the administrative burden on entrepreneurs, i could not vote for it. the report calls on member states that do not have a minimum wage to introduce it. the problem is that wage policies are the responsibility of the member states, not the european union, and therefore the european parliament has no mandate to take such a step.
in writing. ‒ the having regard to the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the european commission on budgetary discipline and in the light of the council regulation as well as the regulation of the european parliament and of the council, i support the allocation of a financial contribution of eur 1365 000 to finland, and in particular to broadcom. 568 workers were made redundant. this redundancy is partly related to a trend affecting the entire finnish electrical engineering industry.
in writing. ‒ finland, under the conditions set for the granting of aid from the european globalisation adjustment fund, has applied for support for the reintegration into the labour market of 568 workers made redundant by broadcom. the economic and financial situation of the company was adversely affected by the fact that asia became the largest employer in the electronics and electrical engineering industry, which led to a decrease in the number of employees in europe. the finnish electrical engineering industry was also negatively affected by the large-scale redundancies in nokia in 2011. finland has complied with the requirements of the egf and will receive a reduced-reach aid of eur 1 365 000. the appropriations will be used in particular to help people transition to a new job, to help them start their own business and to provide training or education.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund provides additional support to workers who are suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns or the global financial and economic crisis and helps them to reintegrate into the labour market. in june the commission adopted a proposal for a decision to mobilise the egf in favour of finland in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by brodcom. in particular, it concerns 500 of the 568 workers made redundant in that undertaking and in the two suppliers or downstream producers. in support of the motion for a resolution, we have agreed to a financial contribution of eur 1 365 000. this amount will be used to provide personalised services to help redundant workers to start their own business, to help them transition to a new job or to provide training or education.
in writing. i support the restructuring of companies and the training of workers and young people in the affected region. i am also aware of the importance of sound economic policy to prevent such situations.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with the proposed compensation for workers made redundant because of globalisation. the reallocation of money from competitive workers and firms to less competitive ones makes the whole problem of job loss due to 'globalization' worse, not better.
in writing. ‒ i fully support the definition of decent and quality jobs and the development of enterprises and entrepreneurship as a priority of the 2016 budget.
in writing. ‒ i fundamentally disagree with the proposal submitted. in the budget for next year i welcome a 5.3% reduction in commitments, but i consider the proposed 1.6% increase in expenditure to be totally unrealistic. the european union's budget needs to be cut back substantially, as the vast majority of its resources are used exclusively for redistribution, either through the european funds or through the ineffective common agricultural policy.
in writing. ‒ the european commission's green jobs initiative of july 2014 seeks to follow up on the 2012 working document 'taking advantage of the employment potential of green growth', which pointed out that up to 20 million jobs could be created in the green economy by 2020. the key to the transition to green farming is the involvement of the workforce. the european union funds, when used effectively, play an important role in this area. if we want to build a truly green economy, we must not forget the crucial importance of investment and appropriate incentives, together with a stable policy environment. i support this initiative and call for a more dynamic approach to people who are currently unemployed and for whom green jobs could be a new job opportunity.
in writing. ‒ green jobs are an important element in creating new and sustainable jobs with a positive impact on the environment and the quality of life of eu citizens. they will contribute to reducing energy and raw material consumption, thereby minimising waste and pollution, reducing greenhouse gas emissions and contributing to the restoration of ecosystems. self-sufficiency in resources and raw materials, which affects economic security, requires a transition to a circular economy, and thus a reduction in the consumption of raw materials and resources, their more efficient use and processing. this will lead to the creation of new sustainable jobs and will have a positive impact on employment and economic growth. it is therefore necessary to adopt as soon as possible concrete measures, in particular economic, financial, fiscal and social measures, which will provide employers with clear, unambiguous and transparent rules in support of the creation of such jobs.
in writing. ‒ high unemployment in many eu regions requires imaginative and flexible solutions. one of them is the creation of so-called green jobs, which correspond to the requirements of sustainable development. the commission estimates that the renewable energy economy alone will create around 20 million new jobs in europe by 2020. the 2014 green jobs initiative put forward by the european commission therefore responds well to the new conditions in a dynamic sector that directly contributes to reducing energy and raw material consumption, greenhouse gas emissions and pollution.
in writing. ‒ i would like to stress that reforms are essential to create a green economy in the eu in the long term. we also have high hopes for the introduction of a kind of financial incentive system for environmental protection, but also for the transformation of the labour market. we need to take bold action. we need to assess which occupations are obsolete or need to be changed, possibly by using green methods, and which are the new areas where new green jobs can be created to replace the jobs lost during the economic crisis. europe and europeans must respond flexibly to the changing times. we can't just plunge into a stagnant system because we're afraid of change, even if it means casualties in the short term. i believe that these proposals could help us to build a green economy that can also contribute to our long-term climate change goals.
in writing. ‒ i voted in line with the epp group in this case. within the eqf, we have tabled a number of amendments which have highlighted the need to ensure that our existing workforce has the opportunity to acquire the right skills. such as measures to improve the quality of information, advice and guidance on career options in the green economy, together with information on green economy skills. we stressed the need to ensure that all costs for businesses (associated with the transition to green employment) are justified in the light of the expected impacts. there should also be an effort to avoid unnecessary burdens, especially on smes and micro-enterprises, in order to give all businesses the space to innovate, grow and create new jobs. i support the general idea of this report, but i cannot support a number of specific paragraphs which i consider to go beyond the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality.
in writing. ‒ the europe 2020 strategy defines the transition of the economy towards a green low-carbon economy, which in my view can contribute to long-term, sustainable and inclusive growth. green growth can be a very good challenge and opportunity for the labour market, creating up to 20 million new quality jobs in europe by 2020. i am aware that the creation of new jobs will require new skill profiles and qualifications, but in my view this transformation process could lead to significant changes in the labour market and within individual sectors. while many existing jobs and industries will face the difficult challenge of adapting to new requirements, i see this as a good opportunity for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, which are among the most important job creators. i also regard the role of the social partners, which has improved considerably in recent years, as very positive. however, it is important that we continue this strategy and do even more to build a lasting and sustainable social dialogue that can meet the challenges posed by the transition to a competitive, low-carbon and resource-efficient economy.
in writing. ‒ i support reducing dependence on fossil fuels and energy from outside the eu, while creating alternative resources within the eu and using them efficiently (to create jobs). i agree that green jobs have proven to be more resilient to the crisis than other jobs, and i therefore support this approach to employment.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the proposal because it completely ignores economic reality. the creation of green jobs will necessarily come at the expense of other jobs, as with all other job-creation efforts by politicians.
in writing. ‒ tax evasion and tax avoidance as challenges in developing countries are a major problem for local government bodies precisely because domestic resources represent the largest source of financing for developing countries. it is essential that these countries drastically increase their tax collection, thus helping to improve public services for the people. the european parliament should therefore support a set of strong recommendations to improve the mobilisation of domestic resources in developing countries, including strengthening financial and technical assistance to developing countries and regional tax administration frameworks and adopting bold solutions to increase transparency and cooperation in the fight against tax evasion.
in writing. ‒ the issue of tax compliance and tax evasion has recently resonated particularly with multinational corporations legal entities which, due to lack of transparency, unclear international rules and instability in developing countries, do not meet their obligations towards the states in which they do business. i therefore support the action plan to prevent tax base erosion and profit shifting, which will force multinational companies to pay taxes where they carry out their economic activities. i also support the proposal to define tax havens and to establish a blacklist of countries that allow legal persons to use tax evasion. tax evasion at the expense of the population in developing countries is a reprehensible crime that prevents the eradication of extreme poverty. i believe that more efficient tax collection by multinational companies operating in developing countries should contribute to economic development in those countries and to the improvement of the living conditions of their people.
in writing. - i voted yes. illegal financial flows stemming from tax evasion, corruption and aggressive tax avoidance are estimated to cost developing countries nearly $903 billion annually. this is substantially more than the funds allocated from the eu budget for development aid. this report contains a list of recommendations with a view to the upcoming conference on financing for development in addis ababa in july 2015. the report does not interfere with the competences of developing countries by prescribing a specific tax model, but only underlines the importance of a 'fair, well balanced, efficient and transparent tax regime'.
in writing. ‒ tax evasion is a very serious problem in all countries around the world. although we have made some progress in this area, this issue is one of the key issues that needs to be addressed at the european parliament. many developing countries, where domestic sources are among their largest sources of income, currently face serious political and administrative obstacles to raising tax revenues. but i think one reason for tax evasion is the huge amount of money that is deposited abroad, and as a result, hundreds of billions of dollars are lost from developing countries every year. based on statistics, the total annual amount of tax evasion worldwide is between $250 billion and $300 billion. i supported the resolution because i am convinced that only fair, balanced and transparent tax regimes in developing countries can help them to combat illicit financial fraud and tax evasion. i agree with the experts who say that if tax collection in developing countries improved and massive financial leakage stopped, the governments of those countries could use the funds for social projects, the development of infrastructure for health, education and other public services that are vital to fighting poverty.
in writing. ‒ in the fiscal field, i support three fundamental approaches: fairness, equity and transparency, as well as for the slovak republic, the european union as a whole and developing countries. i therefore support the call to combat tax evasion and avoidance in developing countries.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal as it does not impose any new regulatory obligations on developing countries, nor does it increase expenditure, but provides mainly technical assistance to these countries.
in writing. ‒ it is certainly time for society to realise that we are increasingly pushing the limits of the planet and that if we continue to do so we will not avoid negative ecological changes in the future. so if we want to preserve a healthy and viable planet for future generations, we must find ways to reduce the consumption of minerals, fossil fuels and biomass, which are constantly increasing due to population growth, the expansion of product diversity compared to the past and the shortening of their life span. because if the global economy continues at its current rate, we're going to hit a dead end by 2050. we need to create a secondary raw materials market in europe, because valuable raw materials and materials that we obtain at high environmental and social cost end up in incinerators and landfills. we need to focus on fostering innovation and resource efficiency and to focus consumer attention on such environmentally friendly products. resource efficiency requires the interaction of many factors. the european union needs to develop a binding resource efficiency indicator. we need to set clear, clear and ambitious resource efficiency targets and create an environment of legal certainty that ensures wide opportunities for innovative business models and policies.
in writing. ‒ to avoid economic and ecological disaster, it is essential to promote a more efficient use of existing resources while seeking new, environmentally friendly alternatives. europe is dependent on external sources, with more than 40% of all materials used in the eu being imported, and for some strategic materials this proportion is even higher. this dependency undermines the economic position and security of the union. in addition, many materials end up in waste because there is no functioning market for secondary raw materials. it is therefore necessary to gradually change the economic, social and technical conditions of production, including the adjustment of the legislative environment and economic incentives and the introduction of systemic measures, in order to increase the more efficient use of existing resources. it is also a way of creating and maintaining new jobs with a simultaneous positive impact on the eu economy and the environment.
in writing. ‒ the the efficient use of our planet's often limited resources is the basis of good governance. to ensure the long-term sustainability of our economy, we must learn to use available resources more efficiently and without unnecessary waste. in this respect, the so-called circular economy offers a number of practical solutions and improvements, such as cascading use of resources, a waste hierarchy, but also a reassessment of producer responsibility, which will lead to the emergence of new business models, products and services. in the context of saving, i would like to point out that buildings account for 40% of total energy consumption, which is largely wasted due to poor insulation. in this and many other areas, i therefore encourage the search for synergies between regional and environmental policy and the use of the european funds for these purposes.
in writing. ‒ if we are to achieve our 2030 and 2050 targets and create a more livable and greener planet, we need to adopt practices that are resource-efficient as soon as possible. all these measures can directly contribute to gdp growth, reduced waste generation and the creation of new green jobs. but we must be careful not to override the regulations, so that the benefits are not eaten up by bureaucracy and administrative duties. it is crucial that we prepare future generations now to participate in making the economy of the future resource-efficient. education is key here. often, self-awareness goes beyond the planned, brain-regulated functioning of economic policy, which is often not viable, and which can then discredit the original purpose and be seen by our citizens as a redundant, annoying and costly anchor. so i ask that we intervene in the marketplace with the minimum necessary standards and measures.
in writing. - i was late with the report. the global economy is currently consuming 1.5 times the capacity of the earth's available resources to produce. all the resources on our planet are a great gift from god. we therefore need to improve the efficiency of their use as well as that of waste material, and thus reduce the eu's overall dependence on imported raw materials. however, the report contains a number of normative regulations and regulations. it also sets targets for individual member states. i do not consider these provisions appropriate. any action in the member states should be carried out on a voluntary basis.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report because i believe that for the future economic development of europe we must use our resources more intelligently than we have done so far, design products so that they can be reused and recycled. only by using resources more efficiently can we improve the ecological and economic problems europe is currently facing. i expect that the measures taken will lead to a significant change in the approach to waste management, which could put us back on the path of green growth. i expect the eu to develop a binding resource efficiency benchmark, as many sectors are still highly heterogeneous and comparisons of the data provided are not sufficiently revealing. by moving towards a more intensive circular economy, we can improve the competitiveness and living standards of europeans and contribute to economic growth, a better environment and job creation. i also believe that the circular economy will offer consumers more durable and innovative products, which will also improve their quality of life. europe needs a successful transition to a circular economy, thereby contributing to a stronger europe and reducing pressure on the supply of raw materials and the environment.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the proposal because i do not agree with the proposed measures, which may significantly increase the regulatory burden.
in writing. ‒ the in view of the development of community primary law in the field of food safety, as well as the need to ensure the coherence of all legislative measures relating to the conditions for importing food and feed originating in third countries affected either by a nuclear accident or by another case of radiological emergency, it is necessary to align the measures adopted in the period following the chernobyl accident with the new system of implementing procedures and powers defined in the proposal for this regulation. that's why i'm agreeing to change the legal basis.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this legislative resolution in line with the cor's position. in this case, the envi committee included the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and in particular article 168 (4) (b) and article 114 thereof, as the legal basis for this report. however, the commission has already declared incompatibility with the 'new comitology' in this matter in the past. it therefore proposed to remain within the legal basis resulting from the treaty establishing the european atomic energy community, in particular articles 31 and 32 for this area the establishment of maximum permitted levels of radioactive contamination in food and feed caused by a nuclear accident or other case of radiological emergency. the ecr group takes the view that euratom, as a separate organisation, is responsible for the functioning of the nuclear energy sector. among other tasks, it is responsible for establishing uniform safety standards to protect the health of workers and the general public. at the same time, it ensures that these standards are also respected.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution because the report comes with some new elements that bring clearer rules and links with european food safety legislation. i believe that although the overall safety balance is now fairly favourable, high levels of radioactive contamination persist to this day. as the radioactive material leaked has contaminated air, water, soil and vegetation, i consider it important to develop measures which will not pose a threat to human and animal health in the union in the future. i also consider it equally important to harmonize all the measures taken so far after the chernobyl and fukushima accidents in the interests of public safety. i agree to ensure continuous monitoring of food products from countries affected by radioactive fallout from a nuclear accident in another country, thereby minimising the risks of consuming food products. at the same time, i expect that in the event of intentional export or sale of food with a contamination level exceeding the maximum permitted values, severe sanctions will be imposed on the offenders.
in writing. ‒ despite a significant increase in the size of the european and global financial sector, investment in the real economy in europe has declined over several decades. however, the large-scale public interventions we have provided since the start of the crisis, triggered by the failure of the financial sector, have so far failed to increase the demand for finance in the real economy. despite the quality of the european union's capital market, there are still major obstacles in areas such as taxation and accounting law. these areas could be addressed in future harmonisation. however, i consider our most important role to be to create the conditions for helping smes to attract investment. i support proposals to improve this situation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the creation of a capital markets union. commercial banks are the main source of funding. however, recent years have shown that, despite regulation, they are very expensive and risky. i therefore welcome the intention to diversify funding, develop european capital markets and improve access to finance, especially for smes. a good example is the area of equity markets or corporate bond markets. however, ensuring an adequate regulatory framework must be a priority. inadequately regulated and controlled capital markets were the main cause of the financial crisis.
in writing. ‒ in my view, it is important that we ensure better financing for smes within the eu when creating such a union.
in writing. ‒ the epp group welcomes the commission's strategy in this important area, but we believe that the european parliament's response and recommendations are not sufficient and adequate to help the eu and its member states adequately in the fight against organised crime and terrorism. the eu needs guidelines, measures, resources, expertise and action. we need to talk seriously and concretely about how to protect our children from violence, how to stop the radicalisation of young people, how to improve the exchange of information in law enforcement, how to prevent human trafficking and ensure adequate funding for law enforcement agencies. unfortunately, the decision of the parliament is not balanced enough. in the field of law enforcement, the protection of fundamental rights and data protection are of paramount importance. however, it is not enough to focus on these alone to develop an appropriate, clear and coherent security strategy and protect our citizens.
in writing. ‒ i support the european agenda on security for the period 2015 to 2020. the european union is currently facing major challenges that require coordinated action, not only at national and european level but also at global level. terrorism, radicalisation, organised crime and cybercrime are the main threats to the security of citizens in the european union. the recent terrorist attacks in the european union and elsewhere have highlighted the urgency of the fight against terrorism. it is essential to use all instruments, and to introduce new ones where necessary, to protect our citizens and their security.
in writing. ‒ in this case, i joined the ecr's position and voted against. the european agenda on security for 2015-2019 sets out certain challenges, principles and guidelines for dealing with security threats related to organised crime, terrorism, extremism and trafficking in human beings. the commission adopted this agenda in april 2015. however, the european parliament resolution failed to reflect the ec priorities that the edf supported. instead, the libe resolution focuses on human rights, data protection and economic imbalances as the root causes of crime. the resolution also calls for a definition of european national security and other legal forms of migration.
in writing. ‒ the boundaries between internal and external security are becoming increasingly blurred, requiring closer cooperation and coordination between member states in order to develop a comprehensive and multidimensional security approach. i therefore welcome the european agenda on security for 2015-2020 presented by the commission and the priorities set out therein in view of the challenges the eu is currently facing such as terrorism, radicalisation, cross-border organised crime, cybercrime, etc. these most serious threats require coordinated action at national, european and global levels. eliminating threats will not be possible without addressing the root causes of crime, including growing social inequalities, poverty, discrimination and possible perceptions of unfair practices in the eu and its member states' foreign policies. in order to make the union a credible actor, i attach importance to the requirement that the right balance be struck between preventive policies and repressive measures, in order to preserve freedom, security and justice, and that all measures be implemented in accordance with the rule of law and the protection of fundamental human rights.
in writing. ‒ the the deteriorating political, security and humanitarian situation in yemen is of deep concern to the european union. i condemn any violence, attempts and threats of violence to intimidate participants in the un-sponsored dialogue. we must fight vigorously against the exploitation, or rather the abuse, of children by all parties to the conflict. humanitarian action must be well coordinated and we must call on all countries to contribute to our response to the humanitarian needs of the people of yemen. i stress that the only solution to the conflict can only be political, diplomatic and inclusive, and that it should aim at the establishment of a government of national unity and the restoration of peace.
in writing. ‒ the situation in yemen is underestimated by the international community and the eu should play a more active role, particularly in stopping the export of islamic terrorism. the security arrangements and financial capacity to combat terrorism and to resolve the situation in yemen are totally inadequate. that's why i had to vote against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the enlarged armed conflict in yemen has affected 9.9 million children since march 2015, with at least 279 children killed, 402 injured, and 1.8 million deprived of access to education due to school closures. the commission has also provided information on the activities of the union delegation to the united nations in the field of the arms embargo in yemen. the health care system is on the verge of collapse. 2.6 million children under 15 are at risk of measles, 2.5 million are at risk of diarrhea, cases of dengue fever are increasing, chronic diseases are not being treated, drug supplies have stopped, 160 health facilities are closed, others are without medicines, medical equipment and staff. as humanitarian aid is being impeded by the saudi-led coalition forces and, in addition, by the maritime blockade, i strongly condemn this action and join the call for an immediate halt to attacks on humanitarian targets in order to allow life-saving aid to reach the yemeni people, to allow humanitarian actors and doctors safe and unhindered access to reach the people who need their help safely.
in writing. ‒ the in order to address the situation in the countries of the middle east and north africa, it is important to address the situation of women, because their rights are indivisible and immutable, and our task is to reach out to nations that suppress women's rights and do not respect gender equality. political instability in the regions concerned is leading to an increase in the number of refugees who fall victim to trafficking in human beings. the most vulnerable groups are women and children, and therefore the participation of women, especially from religious and ethnic minorities, in peace negotiations is crucial to achieve satisfactory results in this area.
in writing. tensions in the middle east and north africa also threaten the security and stability of the european union. geopolitical tensions, terrorist acts by the islamic state and other terrorist groups operating in africa, civil wars, dictatorial regimes, along with ethnic and religious divisions, suppression of human rights and deepening poverty, are putting pressure on citizens who will increasingly seek to enter eu countries by all means, including illegal ones. this increases the risk of unwanted persons entering the union's member states, which threatens the safety of our citizens and, of course, increases the costs of member states for protecting their territories and for dealing with migration-related problems. the european union and its member states must therefore use all legitimate and diplomatic means to defuse the situation. the tensions need to be addressed as a matter of priority within the states of the middle east and north africa themselves. without the establishment of democratic regimes, it is not possible to solve the economic and social problems of these countries, quite the contrary. the way to eradicate poverty is through democratic change.
in writing. ‒ tensions in the middle east and north africa region are rising sharply and the geopolitical situation is evolving rapidly and dramatically, bringing a host of threats and risks to the security of eu citizens and interests. among the many serious violations of fundamental human rights and the principles of democracy and the rule of law, i would highlight the purges, whose victims are primarily ethnic and religious minorities. women, children, and even toddlers are common among the innocent civilian victims. i therefore consider it a priority to address the humanitarian crisis, which is closely linked to the refugee problem. however, development programmes need to be developed in parallel to help address the devastating economic and social consequences of the conflict, particularly in iraq and syria.
in writing. ‒ i believe that no responsible political leader today is indifferent to the political problems of the middle east and north africa. while a few years ago we might have thought that religious fanaticism would fade with time, today we see the crisis intensifying. and it is vital for the eu to end this crisis. it is essential that political stability is restored in the region, that the migration of people is stopped, that the clash of cultures does not fall on us. like it or not, this calls for concrete and strong action. economically, ideologically and even militarily. europe must stand up for its values and not sit idly by as a world catastrophe escalates. we must say: we will not tolerate the persecution of christians, no more religious fanaticism! we do not risk the future of our continent for temporary economic interests. we also have a responsibility towards the peoples of the middle east. and we must handle the security issue with the utmost discipline.
in writing. - i abstained on the document. the document mentions several tools to address a security or migration situation. it also proposes a number of necessary diplomatic and security measures. i appreciate your support for the kurdish regional government. overall, it is weak, it uses insufficient tools to solve problems in conflict regions, resulting in waves of migration. member states shall deal with them only where the problem affects them on their own territory. the document also places too much emphasis on human rights policy, which has been ineffective in relation to the middle east and north africa states for a long time. i strongly oppose the practice of abortion as a solution for women who have been subjected to sexual violence.
in writing. ‒ the the current military conflicts in syria, iraq, yemen and libya are destabilising the middle east region, damaging the political and economic development of the region, disrupting demographic cohesion and also causing a humanitarian, economic and social crisis for the people of those states. the problems of the middle east have also become the problems of the eu as a whole. thousands of refugees are migrating to the eu, and we are not coping. the stability and security of the middle east region is also threatened on a daily basis by terrorist organisations and supporters of the islamic state. the eu must therefore urgently engage with the un and other major powers to fight terrorist organisations and the islamic state, to stabilise the situation in syria, iraq, yemen and libya as soon as possible, and to prevent the people of these countries from having to leave their homelands in order to save their lives, even at the risk of losing their lives in the mediterranean. the middle east and north africa region is particularly affected by poverty and high inequalities, and only post-conflict economic and social development will bring stability to these regions.
in writing. ‒ i support the revision of the european neighbourhood policy, and in particular the quality report presented by mr kukan. the esp is an important part of the european union's foreign policy and its potential lies in its ability to use a wide range of instruments in the fields of security, diplomacy, economy, trade, development, defence and humanitarian affairs. the esp is also crucial to enhancing the credibility of the european union's foreign policy and our standing on the world stage. the fundamental challenge of the esp must be to bring concrete improvements to the citizens of the partner countries. but it must become more strategic, more focused and more integrated, and it must be politically driven.
in writing. ‒ as the eu is a union of states with common values and interests, the neighbourhood policy must also be a unified expression of the common position of the eu states. naturally, this unified position must be consistent with fundamental values and principles, such as democracy, the rule of law and the protection of human rights. i am convinced that it is the transposition of these principles into concrete actions that will become the stable basis for favourable long-term relations with neighbouring states. however, the current volatile geopolitical situation requires not only continued dialogue and cooperation in finding constructive solutions to current challenges together with our neighbouring countries, but also the introduction of pragmatic security measures to protect eu citizens. i therefore support the strengthening of the eu's external borders and the allocation of the corresponding funds for this purpose.
in writing. ‒ i consider the eu's neighbourhood policy to be an important instrument for ensuring peace and stability. europe today cannot afford to ignore the geopolitical, economic and social changes in its neighbours. it is important to improve cooperation with international organisations and to support financially projects that help alleviate the suffering of people in the world. we also need to set up a control mechanism for these projects. that's why i voted for this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the european neighbourhood policy (enp) was created to prevent new dividing lines between the enlarged eu and its neighbours, and we have helped to consolidate the prosperity, stability and security of all the countries involved. on the one hand, i am pleased that the esp is based on the values of democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights, but on the other hand i am sorry that, as a result of the current political and economic changes and under the influence of armed or so-called frozen conflicts, the neighbourhood is undergoing fundamental changes and therefore action is needed. i supported the resolution because i believe it is essential to restructure the neighbourhood policy and to look for ways of changing it in order to build a strong, strategic and lasting partnership that is able to react quickly and flexibly in promoting common interests. at the same time, i feel that the eu must play a more active role in peaceful solutions to existing conflicts that threaten the development of a genuine and effective multilateral dimension of the epc. i expect that, on the basis of the measures taken, the neighbourhood policy will develop into a better adapted and flexible policy framework, able to adapt to the existing diversity of the partner countries.
in writing. ‒ for me and slovakia, ukraine is the most important country in the framework of the neighbourhood policy. its stabilisation and political, economic and financial involvement will have an impact on the prosperity of slovakia, the region and the eu as a whole.
in writing. ‒ the importance of good and strong relations with our neighbours, whether on the eastern side of the union's borders or on the opposite side of the mediterranean, was only realised by many during the recent discussions on migrants, when conflicts in ukraine, syria and libya began to directly affect all member states. the report by mep eduard kukana raises hopes that the planned revision of the eu's neighbourhood policy will ensure more effective cooperation with these countries and offer them a vision of a better future. each country needs to be looked at individually, as the application of a one-size-fits-all neighbourhood policy has not proven successful in the past. i believe that, in addition to the 'more for more' principle, whereby the union strengthens its partnership with those neighbouring countries which are making progress on the path of democratic reform, we should also consider more often the application of the 'less for less' policy towards those who are going in the opposite direction.
in writing. ‒ this report creates a prerequisite for the legal protection of authors and performers in their creative and artistic activities. more than 7 million people are employed in the european union in sectors where intellectual property rights play a significant role. i recognise that commercial activities infringing copyright constitute a threat to the functioning of the digital single market, for example. however, i do not agree with restricting the rights of citizens to present private audiovisual recordings which may feature a building or other historic monument protected by existing copyright legislation.
in writing. the news caused a storm of emotion in slovakia and the czech republic. naturally, citizens are concerned that incorporating this report into the directive, especially not the precise article 46, will prevent them from taking photographs of monuments in the normal way, without even knowing that they are covered by copyright. freedom of panorama is more liberal in our countries, and therefore it is naturally seen as a step backwards. i respect the right of authors to protect their copyright, but in this case, it is also necessary to protect the general public, who have no interest in the commercial exploitation of such images. it is therefore necessary to clarify what is meant by the commercial exploitation of the representation of a work, the manner in which the work is generally disclosed as being protected by copyright and who is liable to pay the author for such disclosure, if any. i therefore voted against the restrictive clause which restricted freedom of panorama.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the initial report on copyright, which aims to take the european parliament's position on the direction to be taken by the future copyright reform in the eu. in order to adapt copyright to the new challenges of the digital age, there is a need to modernise copyright rules in order to develop the european cultural and creative sectors. the sector also deserves attention because it employs more than 7 million people and generates about 4,2% of eu gdp, and employment growth has not stopped even during the economic crisis. in my view, the revision of the current directive should maintain the principle of fair remuneration for rightholders. however, i support the affirmation of the principle of territoriality, whereby each member state will determine fair remuneration within its own cultural policy, and also the principle of subsidiarity, which will allow the member state to adopt specific legislation in accordance with its specific local conditions. these principles should concern in particular the controversial area of the so-called freedom of panorama: taking photographs of monuments or works of art and their subsequent publication on social networks. i believe that taking and publishing for private purposes should be free, but commercial exploitation for profit, which concerns companies, should be clearly and fairly regulated so that copyright is taken into account.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. copyright must adapt to the possibilities of the digital age. on the other hand, european culture must be protected and promoted, which necessarily means protecting the rights of authors. the copyright reform to be introduced must strike a balance between the interests of creators, rights holders and, above all, consumers themselves.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the report assessing the implementation of directive 2001/29/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 22 may 2001 on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society. copyright as defined in this 2001 european legislation is not perfect. since 2001, the cultural and creative industries have made great progress, contributing significantly to the eu economy, employing over 7 million people and accounting for over 4.2% of eu gdp, according to the latest estimates. the digital market is undergoing major technological advances and it is therefore essential that authors and performers are granted legal protection for their creative and artistic activities, with corresponding remuneration for authors and performers in the digital environment to the same extent as in the analogue environment. the current differences in legislation between member states also create legal uncertainty, which is an obstacle to the creation of a digital single market and to the cross-border availability of copyright-protected content. the commission should therefore adopt a new copyright directive as a matter of urgency to address the current problems.
in writing. ‒ the the digital revolution has also brought many changes in intellectual property law. finding a balance between the rights and obligations of authors and users is increasingly difficult, but necessary. the limitation of copyright, such as a limited period of protection or the freedom of the public to capture a panorama, has its social, cultural and economic justification. the passionate debate on the freedom of panorama, which also allows the reproduction of works placed in the public domain without the author's consent under our copyright law, has shown that member states should continue to decide on the introduction of certain exceptions. the balance between authors' rights and the public has its social, cultural and economic justification, since copyright is intended to protect authors while also serving society.
in writing. ‒ the european foundation for democracy helps to reduce political and other risks. its main objective is to support and encourage democratisation and strong democracy in countries undergoing political transformation, including by combating corruption and promoting social and political participation. the eed's activities are integral to its commitment to freedom of expression, the media and the building and strengthening of the rule of law. i also welcome the removal of the original geographical restriction of the eed and the extension of its mandate to ensure a balance between east and south in project funding.
in writing. ‒ according to the report submitted, burundi has been in crisis since the end of april. i do not consider the elections held on 29 june 2015 to be free or credible due to the serious disturbance of the electoral process by the restrictions on independent media and the disproportionate use of force against demonstrators. i join the call for the postponement of the presidential elections scheduled for 15 july 2015 and the call for the resumption of dialogue on all disputed areas between the various stakeholders on the basis of respect for the arusha agreement and the burundian constitution.
in writing. the unstable political situation in burundi, west africa, triggered by the presidential elections, also threatens neighbouring states, in particular the neighbouring democratic republic of congo. failure to address this problem could be the focus of further tensions, the consequences of which will be felt by the european union and its member states. all diplomatic contacts, international treaties and conventions, both from the european institutions and bodies and from the member states' institutions and bodies, should be used to ease tensions and stabilise the civil and political situation in burundi.
in writing. ‒ the the political, security and economic situation in burundi is critical. the deterioration will have serious consequences for the local population, whose lives are at risk. it poses a risk to an already unstable region. it is the most serious crisis since the end of a 12-year ethnic civil war that by 2005 had killed some 300,000 people. i supported the european parliament resolution condemning the actions of the burundian government and the illegitimately elected president. i support the call for all actors to engage in joint dialogue and to respect the commitments of the arusha agreement, the international covenant on civil and political rights and the african charter on human and peoples' rights.
in writing. ‒ burundi, the fifth poorest country in the world, is going through a difficult political period which could lead to an even more serious conflict. it was only ten years after the civil war there, which claimed up to 300,000 lives. the current crisis was triggered by president nkurunziza's third candidacy, although the burundian constitution allows for a maximum of two terms in office. the parliamentary elections on 29 june were already held in an atmosphere of general fear, and the conditions for free and fair presidential elections are not at all favourable. political opponents are intimidated and subjected to violence, independent media have been given red lights and have been shut down since mid-may, journalists are leaving the country en masse, and those who remain face constant threats. at least 70 people were killed in the brutal crackdown and some 127,000 fled for their lives to neighboring states. the situation affects the economic and social life of all burundians who have chosen to stay. schools are closed, the local currency has weakened, unemployment has risen and tax revenues have fallen. the developments in the days ahead could be crucial to the overall stability of the great lakes region. only dialogue and consensus among all parties can lead to a lasting political solution for all burundians.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the initiative of the un security council to declare 11 july as the world day of remembrance for the more than 8,000 victims of the massacre of bosnian men and boys in what was then the un protection zone. it is important that we keep reminding ourselves that such tragedies can happen, and we must take measures to prevent similar tragedies in the future. it is certainly very difficult for the relatives of the victims of this tragedy to follow the incredibly drawn-out trial of the main culprits, bosnian serb president radovan karadzic and his army general ratko mladic. the authorities of the bosnian serb republic have so far refused to define the massacre as genocide, despite the fact that the international court of justice in 2007 declared the srebrenica massacre to be genocide, as did the un international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia during trials of several bosnian serb commanders.
in writing. the july 1995 massacre in srebrenica, bosnia, will forever be a black memory in the modern history of europe. the memory is made all the more painful by the fact that thousands of defenseless people died despite the fact that srebrenica was declared a safe zone by the united nations in the spring of 1993 to protect the muslim population. moreover, this massacre is a political, military and human failure that must not be repeated in europe in the future.
in writing. ‒ the twenty years have passed since the tragic events in srebrenica, bosnia, but the memory of it still chills the heart and evokes a sense of shame for the failure of humanity on the european continent. more than 8,000 innocent victims died during the srebrenica genocide and deserve to be remembered with deep respect and action taken to ensure that such a thing never happens again. i therefore express my deep sorrow for the victims of this heinous act of barbarism and my sympathy for the surviving relatives and loved ones. at the same time, i remember all the innocent lives that were extinguished in the balkans during the armed conflict.
in writing. ‒ after 20 years of the massacre of bosnian serbs in srebrenica, the wounds are not healed. it is necessary to continue the dialogue so that the political representatives of bosnia and herzegovina come to terms with the past, that the perpetrators are punished in the process before the icty and that a clear perspective can be provided in the accession process for the western balkan countries. that's why i voted for this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i think it's important to remember these events so they never happen again. the countries of the former yugoslavia have come a long way since then. slovenia and croatia are members of the eu and now the other countries of the so-called western balkans need to be integrated as well.
member of the commission.– mr president, honourable ladies and gentlemen, the external action service and the european union are engaged with local and national authorities at all levels to try to have wider contact with different stakeholders and activists in bahrain. we will, of course, continue to support stability and development, but this can only be done if there is a process of national reconciliation, without preconditions, leading to gradual political and socio-economic reforms based on compromise by all political actors. we are also following the cases of a number of peaceful activists, including mr nabeel rajab, but also mr al—khawaja, a danish—bahraini citizen who has also been in prison for a long time. the external action service and member states are following those cases and are trying to be present at all court cases. we have consistently said, over the past four years, that a lasting reconciliation process must include a combination of modernisation and confidence-building steps – including the release of all those arrested in the context of peaceful political activities – in order to overcome the polarisation in bahraini society. we had a visit in may, for the second time this year, by the eu representative for fundamental rights, the special representative – whom many of you know very well as he is a former mep – mr stavros lamprinidis. he passed this message very clearly to his interlocutors. he was able to meet with some activists in detention, as well as with the families of some of the detainees. we also believe that opposition parties are fundamental to any democracy. we have publicly voiced our dismay, on 17 june, at the sentencing of ali salman, the secretary-general of al-wefaq, to four years in jail. such moves run counter to the efforts promoting a lasting and inclusive national reconciliation, and we hope that the sentences can be reconsidered in appeal. many steps taken by the bahraini authorities to implement the recommendations of the bahraini independent commissions of inquiry are positive, as some of you have also mentioned, and have the potential to improve the human rights situation in the country. the minister of the interior’s ombudsman, the prisoners’ and detainees’ rights commission and the national institution for human rights have an important and very proactive role to play in this regard, fulfilling their mandate in full independence. the bold recommendations issued by these institutions must now be fully implemented and produce concrete results, in order to win the confidence of the public. so i want to encourage you to maintain contact with the recently-elected parliamentary bodies in bahrain, and we appreciate the strong interest that the european parliament is taking in this regard.
author. i have been following the case of the two christian pastors in sudan from the very beginning and i am very pleased that there has been enough support to speak about it here in the european parliament. as noted, sudanese presbyterian church pastor michael yat was detained by secret service agents immediately after a service during which he allegedly condemned the controversial sale of church land and the cruel treatment of christians in sudan. after pastor peter yein reith became interested in the circumstances of pastor michael's imprisonment, he found himself unjustly imprisoned. as a result, several charges were brought against both pastors, some of which carry the death penalty. the next hearing is in five days and i firmly believe that with international pressure from the european parliament, the african union and the un, the sudanese authorities will drop the charges against the pastors, and not only them. just two weeks ago, 12 girls were arrested leaving a baptist church. they were accused of wearing inappropriate clothing and faced an unbelievable punishment of flogging. many people wonder why the european parliament is dealing with cases of individuals who are persecuted, imprisoned in countries outside the union. however, past experience shows that this makes sense. just like this year ago, with a happy ending, we called for the release of meriam ibrahim. this happy ending is proof that through international cooperation and collective pressure, we can influence the course of events in a country like sudan.
if a country accuses two christian pastors of waging war against the state, we can be sure that the accusation is fabricated. on the contrary, it is states like sudan that are waging war against christianity and christians. this war begins with the denial of civil rights, the demolition of churches and church buildings, followed by the suppression of human rights, unjust trials, and often death. the least we can do in these cases is to strongly warn the governments of these countries and their representatives that the eu is watching their actions and will use all means to protect the innocent. i therefore considered it my duty to join the authors of this resolution. my dear friends, i cannot help adding that i consider it the height of arrogance to speak now of the persecution of christians in sudan, and three hours ago we failed to mention the persecution of christians in the report on neighbourhood policy.
i asked to speak to assure you of my support for the alternative proposal of the european people's party. the motion for a resolution by the people's party puts the emphasis on the protection of fundamental human rights. it emphasises that the subject of the protection of fundamental rights must not be abused. i appreciate that the epp also considers the protection of indigenous minorities' rights to be important. i would like to emphasise paragraphs 24 and 27 of the ppe motion, which state that the eu must respect the rights of indigenous national minorities, those who have been living in their homeland for decades and enriching europe with their culture and language. it is important that the proposal calls for the eu institutions to be more effective in protecting the linguistic, cultural and educational rights of minorities. calls on the member states to effectively implement the council of europe and osce documents on the protection of minorities and calls on the member states to adopt a national legislative framework to address all forms of discrimination. i welcome the fact that the proposal also calls on the commission to develop a comprehensive eu system to ensure equal treatment of indigenous minorities and thus european stability. i also support the idea of the eu joining the european charter of human rights as soon as possible. i believe that this is the way forward, that it strengthens european cohesion and the identity of european citizens. (the intervener agrees to answer a question for a blue card under article 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
that's a two-card answer. yes, it is, mr president. the written document uses the term used in the international documents and therefore the term 'minority'. we citizens of national communities use the term 'national community'. i very much hope, madam president, that this will soon be included in our document. let's try to do it together.
in writing. the human rights report should be a mirror of how we are doing in our countries in respecting fundamental values and freedoms. we have room for improvement. in my amendments to the report, i have drawn attention to a phenomenon which points to the strengthening and spread of extreme nationalism, racism, xenophobia and intolerance throughout europe. among the reasons for this are terrorist attacks, but one is the cause, and another is the phenomenon itself, which needs to be addressed urgently. there is growing distrust among citizens, especially towards unknown or other than the majority cultures. this not only affects immigrant communities, but also has a particularly negative impact on the situation of indigenous national and ethnic minorities. i urge you to take concrete steps to stop the aggression, including hate speech. we politicians must be especially careful in our choice of words. the future of europe is being played by those who, out of populism and momentary votes, are fomenting aggression and deepening mistrust.
i would like to say two sentences about migration from the perspective of the visegrad four. it's not that the visegrad four wouldn't be supportive of this. we are ready to work together to solve this crisis, but we want to point out that the migration crisis cannot be solved only within the european union. the quota system will not work in the medium term either. the events in budapest last week clearly demonstrate that almost every migrant wants to continue on, to the western part of europe. we are not convinced that the solution to the world's crises is to move the most mobile and perhaps the most educated layers of these societies to europe. our proposal is that we should also develop activities in the african and asian countries affected by migration and, in cooperation with them, seek solutions to limit these migratory movements, including the creation of safety and stabilisation zones in these regions.
the slovak republic ratified the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities more than five years ago. however, in slovakia, children with disabilities still cannot receive regular education in conventional schools because the state cannot provide them with the necessary number of teacher assistants. this beginning of the school year has not been kind to many parents, teachers, principals, but especially to hundreds of children in a sad mood. even though they could be fully integrated, most of these children will not be. when we talk about quality education, we always emphasize the fact that it is an investment that will return to the individual, but also to us as a society in many ways. this is also true for children with disabilities. early diagnosis, quality early care, breaking down barriers and, where possible, early integration into the healthy population are the prerequisites for a fulfilling life for these children and for their protection from the threat of poverty. i therefore also want to appeal to the slovak government to provide the necessary teaching assistants for disabled children or to allow children to be accompanied by assistants at school, who could also be provided by their parents... (the chairman interrupted)
i would like to thank my colleague angelica niebler for an excellent text. the family business i have proposed will be adopted by parliament in this plenary thanks to angelica, and i hope that she will also become an inspiration for the commission. multigenerational family businesses strengthen the economy and lead by example in social responsibility. it is therefore important to promote their value integrity and to guarantee them, as legal persons, the freedoms enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights to practice their values in business. family businesses have specific needs. i believe that the report adopted will lead to an improvement in their situation, because strengthening family businesses will help to increase employment, especially in economically weaker regions. at the same time, it can lead young people to develop work habits, as lack of them is one of the most common causes of youth unemployment in the european union.
for the ppe group. common european procedures and practices are always the most effective way of combating unfair practices. the adoption of this regulation on mutual assistance between the administrative authorities of the member states and the european commission is intended to contribute to the proper application of the rules on customs and agricultural matters. the main objective of the regulation is to improve the detection and investigation of customs fraud and thus to combat customs fraud effectively at the level of the european union as a whole. more emphasis should also be placed on preventing and intensifying the exchange of information and available evidence between individual member states. it is important to improve the availability of import, export and transit data as well as data on container movements at national level. as customs officials currently have no possibility to verify whether the declared origin of the goods corresponds to the route of the container, increased cooperation between the administrative authorities of the member states would reduce the abuse of the transit system and allow for a better exchange of information that could serve as evidence in criminal and administrative proceedings in the member states. this regulation also avoids delays and unnecessary loss of time at the investigation stage. it will also ensure that legislation is aligned with the treaty of lisbon as regards the protection of personal data, in particular in the area of procedures and deadlines. i firmly believe that the adoption of this regulation will bring about deeper cooperation between the administrative authorities in the field of customs and thus reduce the number of customs fraud throughout the european union. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure). )
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. as i said at the beginning, i think that common european procedures will best help us to combat fraud, but we have rules, especially on fiscal union, which we need to follow. as far as fiscal union is concerned, i do not think we need new rules, but rather strict compliance with the existing ones.
in writing. fraud related to false declarations increased in 2011 to an annual loss of eur 100 million. member states reported 1 905 cases of fraud and other irregularities linked to incorrect description of goods, representing a loss of eur 107.7 million. this amount relates only to the loss identified by the member states and the commission. as information on some 30 000 suspected cases of fraud is not available, the real scale of the problem is considerably larger. this system was in urgent need of reform as it emerged that the introduction of electronic customs in 2011, where the import and export supporting documents are no longer kept by customs administrations but by economic operators, led to delays in the investigations conducted by the european anti-fraud office in the customs field, as olaf needs the intermediary assistance of customs administrations to obtain these documents. moreover, the three-year limitation period applied to customs documents held by the administration represented additional obstacles to the successful conduct of the investigations. although consumer protection is at a very high level in the european union, it is very important that it is constantly improved and made more effective. it is the duty of the union to combat fraud in the customs field.
in writing. ‒ european union policies must promote and defend human rights and decent work and effectively combat trafficking in human beings. the main objective of the 2014 protocol of the international labour organisation is to eliminate new forms of exploitation and trafficking in slaves. it is estimated that up to 800 000 people in the european union are exposed to new forms of forced labour. since 1930, there have been many changes in the context and form of forced or compulsory labour and it is therefore important that the european union responds adequately to this problem. the protocol should strengthen labour inspection services and more effective enforcement of labour law, as the posting of workers directive allows companies to de facto break the rules and circumvent existing labour law procedures. the protocol also calls on member state governments to take fundamental measures to better protect workers during the difficult recruitment process.
in writing. ‒ the forced labor today takes many forms, often hidden. it affects the most vulnerable groups of the population, especially women and children, but also the long-term unemployed who are unable to find suitable work. such persons accept jobs that they would never have taken otherwise under properly functioning conditions and with sufficient knowledge. forced labour goes hand in hand with lack of education, lack of information and knowledge. it is no longer just prostitution, hard labor in substandard conditions, begging, or other degrading work. in the countries of former eastern europe, a form of forced labor is also seen in various loans and advances from private companies, which people take on the expectation that they will often buy things they do not really need. unfavorable contracts, along with their complicated terms and interest burden, make them modern-day debt slaves who cannot pay back their debts for decades. the european strategy against poverty also needs to coordinate and guide the governments of the eu member states in taking measures to eradicate forced labour from the european area. we can only build a democratic europe if we can guarantee its citizens a decent life and work.
in writing. ‒ in the case of the recommendation concerning the international labour organisation convention on forced or compulsory labour, i voted in favour of this resolution because i am in favour of combating forced labour. in the 21st century, 21 million people are still in forced labor. the 2014 ilo protocol to the 1930 forced or compulsory labour convention updates that convention, providing new tools to combat forced labour and establishing its legally binding nature.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the ilo convention on forced or compulsory labour. labour rights are one of the main pillars of decent work and constitute the main tool to combat labour exploitation. although labour law is very high in the eu, we still encounter forced or compulsory labour. therefore, it is necessary to really think about the risk factors that lead people to forced labour and which the ilo has defined in its latest report on forced labour, such as declining incomes and poverty, vulnerability due to lack of education, illiteracy, vulnerability of specific population groups such as women, children... therefore, member states must take measures to better protect workers, in particular migrant workers, from abuses and fraudulent practices during recruitment. eu policies must defend and promote human rights and decent work, and eliminate trafficking in human beings, whether within or outside the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal as i support the proposed measures to combat forced or compulsory labour.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion as the conduct of janusz korwin-mikke was not related to the performance of his mandate as a member of the european parliament and should therefore be properly investigated.
in writing. ‒ the fraud related to false declarations increased in 2011 to an annual loss of eur 100 million. member states reported 1 905 cases of fraud and other irregularities linked to incorrect description of goods, representing a loss of eur 107.7 million. this amount relates only to the loss identified by the member states and the commission. as information on some 30 000 suspected cases of fraud is not available, the real scale of the problem is considerably larger. this system was in urgent need of reform as it emerged that the introduction of electronic customs in 2011, where the import and export supporting documents are no longer kept by customs administrations but by economic operators, led to delays in the investigations conducted by the european anti-fraud office in the customs field, as olaf needs the intermediary assistance of customs administrations to obtain these documents. although consumer protection is at a very high level in the european union, it is very important that it is constantly improved and made more effective. it is the duty of the union to combat fraud in the customs field. although it was very difficult to reach an agreement on the creation of a central import and export database and a centralised data repository for transit purposes, a compromise was finally reached.
in writing. ‒ customs fraud linked to incorrect declaration of the country of origin represents a loss of eur 100 million per year for the eu. the proposed regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 515/97 on mutual assistance between the administrative authorities of the member states and cooperation between the latter and the commission to ensure the correct application of the law on customs and agricultural matters will contribute to the detection of customs fraud while reducing the bureaucratic burden. the consistent application of these measures by the eu and the member states will not only have an economic effect but also increase consumer protection.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the proposal and support efforts to make the system of levying duties more efficient, as well as to close the loopholes that allow the current system to be abused.
in writing. ‒ in 2009, the european parliament adopted regulation (ec) no 1007/2009 which banned trade in seal products in the european union. however, the regulation in question has been challenged within the world trade organisation by canada and norway. the commission has therefore decided to extend the period of validity of the general ban on seal products to the period from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2015. the european commission subsequently decided on a 16-month deadline to prepare the necessary legislation and bring existing legislation into line with world trade organisation decisions and recommendations.
in writing. ‒ the the legislative proposal proposed amends, in line with wto recommendations, the existing exemptions for the hunting of seals and trade in seal products for indigenous peoples for whom hunting is a traditional livelihood and part of their cultural heritage. hunting must be traditionally conducted by inuit or other indigenous communities, must contribute to the livelihood of the community, must not be conducted primarily for commercial purposes and must be conducted in a manner that minimises pain, distress, fear or other forms of suffering to the animals hunted. the need to raise awareness in eu countries about the origin of seal products and their legality is underlined.
in writing. ‒ seal hunting is an integral part of the culture and identity of inuit and other indigenous communities and contributes significantly to their livelihoods, providing food and income to support the life and sustainable livelihoods of the community, preserving and enabling the continuation of the traditional existence of the community and the cultural heritage of the exchange trade. it was therefore necessary to add a derogation for this case in order to allow the placing on the market of seal products under clearly defined conditions. i voted for this resolution.
in writing. ‒ since the proposal only clarifies some provisions and brings eu legislation into line with the requirements of the world trade organisation, i supported the proposal.
in writing. ‒ in line with the people's party's position, i voted in favour of the parliament's report on the ban on the cloning of animals kept and bred for agricultural purposes. the ep report welcomes the commission's proposal for a directive banning the cloning of farm animals, but adds further amendments. the subject of cloning is of great concern to eu citizens and the cloning technique itself raises a number of questions, including animal health and ethical issues. the report by the european parliament is therefore important, as it proposes stricter and more transparent rules not only for cloned animals but also for meat and other food products derived from the offspring of cloned animals. the commission is also proposing to extend the ban on cloning to all farm animals, not just cattle, domestic pigs, sheep and goats and horses, as proposed by the commission. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of genetically modified organisms (gmos) and the use of genetically modified organisms (gmos) in food.
in writing. ‒ the cloning of animals kept and bred for farming purposes is a very sensitive issue for the european union. in several surveys, the population of the member states expressed its opposition to cloning because it does not see any positive benefits to be gained from this method of reproduction and considers it to be dangerous. although cloning is not currently used in the european union, it is used in some other countries, such as the usa, canada, brazil or australia. the european commission must respond to the concerns of member states' citizens and suspend the use of the cloning technique in the european union for livestock and the placing on the market of live clones. meat and milk from cloned animals shall not reach the consumer. the european commission's present proposal seeks to make progress but avoids specific and specific provisions for food produced from the offspring of cloned animals.
in writing. ‒ the proposed directive temporarily bans the cloning of animals for the production of livestock for farming purposes in the european union. this takes into account the fact that the majority of the union population is against the use of animal cloning for economic purposes. the reason is general ethical concerns, the preservation of animal welfare and opposition to the consumption of meat and products from cloned animals. cloning is a method of animal husbandry and production in third countries, in particular the usa, canada, brazil, argentina, australia, which import food products into eu countries. it is therefore necessary for the commission to propose, as soon as possible, measures to prohibit and impede the import of foodstuffs derived from cloned animals and their offspring, also in view of their difficult traceability and practical experience.
in writing. ‒ as regards the cloning of animals for commercial purposes, i am clearly opposed to it, given the many risks and legitimate concerns associated with its consumption. i am therefore pleased that today the european parliament has extended the ban on the sale and import of germinal products from cloned animals and their offspring, as well as the placing on the eu market of food and feed from cloned livestock or their offspring from third countries. this prohibition takes into account concerns regarding the possible long-term effects of the consumption of foodstuffs such as meat or milk from the offspring of cloned animals. in the light of the available studies and practical experience, it would be unwise to risk human health by consuming and using products of questionable quality.
in writing. ‒ no one can say with any certainty today what negative consequences cloning animals for economic purposes might have on human health, let alone on the moral level of such a dangerous game of life, even if it involves animals. in total, up to 84% of eu citizens are against any form of cloning technology. for these reasons, i voted to ban the cloning of cattle, pigs, sheep, goats and horses bred and bred for farming purposes.
in writing. ‒ although there is no clear evidence that the consumption of meat and milk from cloned animals would be risky for humans, i personally see it as quite risky. i regret that in the eu, despite the warnings of experts, it is still allowed to clone animals for food production, as well as to import and sell such food in the consumer network. i think the consumer should be able to decide whether or not he wants to consume food produced in this way. unfortunately, by not requiring labelling, food from cloned animals leaves the consumer with no way of knowing whether the food comes from a cloned animal or its offspring. i supported the report because i believe that this issue needs much more attention than it has received so far and that the widest possible range of stakeholders and institutions should be involved in the debate on this subject. i am convinced that if we fail to deal with the problems of the present, we will be short-changed in the world market in this area in the future.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the motion because i do not agree with the arguments put forward for the near-total ban on animal cloning and other related bans that the motion comes with or that the motion supports. as stated in the opinion of the european food safety authority, cloning has no impact on the safety of meat and milk derived from clones. the only support for this proposal is therefore moral arguments. however, since i do not agree with the idea of forcing people to behave morally, i had to decline the offer. it is a personal decision for each person whether or not he will support products derived from cloned animals by his purchases. especially when cloned animals don't necessarily live worse than other animals that haven't been cloned.
in writing. ‒ i consider animal cloning for economic purposes to be wrong. on the one hand, the level of scientific progress achieved cannot exclude the risk of suffering of animals born in this way, serious deformities due to the non-development of organs, limbs, etc. on the other hand, science cannot guarantee the safety of food produced by clones or their offspring, whose genetic code may be corrupted. i therefore supported parliament's comments aimed at effectively banning animal cloning within the eu and at the same time banning the import and sale of such animals, their offspring and products on the european common market.
in writing. ‒ the the issue of cloning of animals kept and bred for economic purposes has included the adoption of two directives proposed by the european commission, banning their cloning and banning their import from other countries. the second draft directive dealt with the ban on products from cloned animals as well as products derived from the offspring of those animals. i abstained on this point. animals, in my opinion, are not things that we can reproduce. in this area, we should respect the laws of nature and not try to change them artificially.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from the vote on the report on the protection of fundamental rights. the main reason for my abstention is that, in agreement with my colleagues in the people's party, i believe that the protection of fundamental human rights should be given a very important place in the activities of the european union, but the report adopted abuses the opportunities offered by the subject on certain issues. as a representative of a minority, i welcome the fact that the text of the report includes a condemnation of all forms of discrimination and a recognition of the protection of national minorities. the ep report calls for the eu institutions to protect the linguistic, cultural and educational rights of these minorities more effectively. calls on the member states to effectively implement the council of europe and osce documents on the protection of minorities. the report calls on the commission to develop a comprehensive eu system to ensure equal treatment of indigenous minorities.
in writing. ‒ the human rights situation is given greater weight with the new commission and positive developments can therefore be expected in the coming years, as new legislation has also been adopted in this area and the first vice-president of the commission must also play the role of guarantor of the protection of fundamental rights in the european union. despite this positive assessment, many violations of fundamental rights still occur in europe in the territories of the member states of the european union. the european institutions must do even more to reduce the frequency of such cases. the european commission should focus on developing an internal strategy for fundamental rights in the near future.
in writing. ‒ the what has been happening in the european union countries recently is a clear sign that the respect for fundamental rights takes different forms. the lack of flexibility and timeliness of the union and individual member states in addressing the real problems of the population, together with a lack of and incomplete information, is causing undemocratic, fascist, authoritarian and populist groups to emerge on the political scene. the report itself notes a lack of respect for rights in several areas. however, this finding will not bring about any change or shift without the adoption of concrete measures. what europe will look like in a few years, whether it will be a rights-based and democratic europe, depends on the steps we take now.
in writing. ‒ the human rights report should be a mirror of how we are doing in our countries in respecting fundamental values and freedoms. we have room for improvement. in my amendments to the report, i have drawn attention to a phenomenon which points to the strengthening and spread of extreme nationalism, racism, xenophobia and intolerance throughout europe. among the reasons for this are terrorist attacks, but one is the cause, and another is the phenomenon itself, which needs to be addressed urgently. there is growing distrust among citizens, especially towards the unknown or cultures other than the majority. this not only affects immigrant communities, but also has a particularly negative impact on the situation of indigenous national and ethnic minorities. i urge you to take concrete steps to stop the aggression, including hate speech. we politicians have to be extra careful about our words. the future of europe is being played by those who, out of populism and momentary votes, are fomenting aggression and deepening mistrust.
in writing. ‒ the the report sought to address many of our society's pressing human rights concerns. however, interference with the exclusive competences of the member states is unacceptable, as is the indoctrination of society with gender ideology or attempts to interfere with the private lives of citizens. we do not want the reintroduction of totalitarian practices or the return of ideologies that lead to unfreedom, fear and persecution. this is because the most fundamental values of freedom, democracy and pluralism on which the common europe was built are at stake. that's why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the report because i do not agree with some of its conclusions, such as the criticism of austerity measures, attitudes towards migrants and so on.
in writing. ‒ the it has become a bit of a local folklore in the european parliament that the annual reports on the state of fundamental rights in the european union go far beyond the remit of this legislative body. mrs ferrara's report is entirely in line with this folklore: it ignores the treaties and the principle of subsidiarity and sticks its nose into the exclusive powers of the member states. whether it's the content of education, the definition of marriage, or health care, liberal activism takes precedence over the treaties that hold europe together. but what saddens me most is that the report repeats for the hundredth time the well-known lie: abortion is supposedly a basic human right. no, it's not that. that is why i voted against this report. but i could not support an alternative resolution that ignored the division of powers between the eu and the member states and created a space for restricting freedom of thought and expression.
in writing. ‒ the ep report on the hearings of commissioners-designate held last year summarises the essential technical and procedural aspects of the hearing process. the hearings were smooth, with the members being helped by the written questionnaires answered by the commissioners-designate. the problem of time management was perhaps the most frequently mentioned difficulty of the hearings, which arose from the fact that 2-3 representatives of the committees heard the candidates at the same time, dealing with the different areas of expertise and the questions that could be asked there. the hearings were characterised by a high level of media interest and a significant increase in the role of social media. this report will enable parliament to draw the necessary conclusions on the effectiveness of the hearings, which will be useful as a preparatory material for the next hearings. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ it is important that we learn from last year's selection of commissioners-designate. public hearings are a useful procedure. however, there are still doubts as to whether they can sufficiently verify the competence of a particular candidate in their current form. there is clearly room for a more rigorous and detailed examination of the competence and managerial skills of future members of the european commission, in particular in dealing with possible crisis situations within their portfolio. i also find the lack of clarity in the lux leaks case concerning tax evasion in luxembourg problematic in this respect. this has had a significant impact on the credibility of commission president juncker himself. the european union is currently facing a wide range of challenges, and in the context of the migration crisis, also human disasters. the way in which some members of the commission have handled them so far is a tragedy in many ways. in the case of refugees, this includes in particular dimitris avramopoulos, responsible for migration, external border protection and the common european asylum system, but also věra jourová, whose remit includes justice and the free movement of persons within the european union. commissioner jourová had doubts about her selection when she had to face written questions in addition to the questioning itself. although the refugee crisis is testing the union's unity much more than previous economic difficulties, both have been too slow to come up with effective proposals to deal with the situation.
in writing. ‒ interviews with commissioners-designate are an important tool that allows members to complete the picture of the suitability of the person in terms of general speaking, communication skills, qualifications and knowledge of the future portfolio entrusted to them. experience in recent years has shown that it is also possible to change the candidate in this way. however, in the interests of transparency and objectivity, it is desirable to adapt the rules so that the hearing process is flexible. at the same time, it is necessary to introduce more clear conditions for the demonstration of financial interests.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i think that a more profound change is needed. the hearings themselves were of little significance and consequent impact. the latest hearings seem to have had almost no impact on the final vote of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal because i welcome the commissioner hearings and consider them a step forward towards greater transparency and democracy. but much more needs to be done to really address the eu's democratic deficit.
in writing. ‒ the european union has consistently maintained a high standard of protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, but the participation of some states in the eavesdropping and surveillance of citizens and politicians in europe has seriously eroded and jeopardised the credibility of the european union's human rights policy and called into question the contribution of icts. the institutions of the european union must ensure that a similar situation does not recur in the future. we must support by all means possible those working to strengthen security and protection standards in the ict domain. it is essential that we adopt the necessary legislation to prevent the purchase of communications technologies and services by private individuals from third countries, which are subsequently used for illegal interception and human rights violations.
in writing. ‒ the the development of technological systems and means of communication also presents an increased risk of various forms of illegal surveillance and interception. it is a gross violation of fundamental rights and personal integrity. on the other hand, current developments in third world countries, linked to the potential threat to the union's population, require monitoring and control of the activities of persons who represent or are likely to represent such a threat. in the interests of democracy and the protection of fundamental rights, any intelligence activity must be defined and subject to law. it must not be abused; abuse must be punished. cooperation with the eu institutions and member states must be prioritised and coordinated in this area.
in writing. ‒ the in the digital age, the need for a strong protection of the human rights of internet users is urgent, yet we still look to it as a miracle, as current technological developments in the field of legislation have been way ahead of us. the internet is not a safe place today, as in addition to freedom, users are not provided with adequate legal protection. however, freedom and security are two sides of the same coin and therefore the issue of protecting citizens online needs to be addressed promptly and in detail. i am particularly concerned that security measures are increasingly being used as an excuse to violate the right to privacy and to control the lawful activities of human rights defenders, journalists and political activists. however, under no circumstances can security justify or justify non-targeted, secret or mass surveillance programmes, whether they are undertaken by private individuals or by the state. in conclusion, i would like to stress that the new legal framework must be based on the principles of necessity, proportionality and democratic and judicial oversight.
in writing. ‒ digital freedoms and net neutrality are fundamental human rights. their protection is important, necessary, censorship is unacceptable, data protection is an absolute priority. i therefore agree to include clauses on this in our contracts with third countries. at the same time, we must face the fact that the digital world has opened up channels of crime that pose particularly high risks to citizens. we need to find the balance that allows us to detect crimes committed in the digital world. today, criminals are able to navigate the online world by exploiting legal uncertainties. it's time for the other side to bleed.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because i agree with the ecr's position. on the one hand, we must condemn regimes that violate human rights, but at the same time, the solution chosen, which would harm the eu economy and the companies that bring it high added value, seems unfortunate to me.
in writing. ‒ i consider respect for fundamental human rights to be a crucial element of successful policies, and therefore find it unacceptable that there are still many countries where technology poses certain risks. i want to say right at the outset that i am against any kind of undermining of human rights that happens anywhere and in any country. unfortunately, the legislative measures adopted in relation to the protection of individuals in third countries often appear to be inadequate and incapable of coping with the pace of emergence of new security risks. i supported the resolution because it comes with proposals for the active development and dissemination of technologies that can protect human rights in these countries. i am also convinced that these measures can become sufficient mechanisms to improve their legal systems and prevent the misuse of technology as a tool for human rights violations. in this context, i also consider it equally important that more effective and efficient controls on compliance with existing information technology rules are carried out at eu level and that severe sanctions are imposed on infringers in the event of their breach.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the report, as it is full of empty phrases, calls for strengthening the powers of the european union and unjustified slander of certain companies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i am convinced that simplification and a reduction in administrative burdens are needed to make the cap more effective and achieve its objectives. it is unacceptable that the cost of controls at member state level is around eur 4 billion per year and is expected to increase as a result of the recent cap reform. the cap needs to be less bureaucratic and provide adequate guarantees to distinguish between error and fraud.
in writing. ‒ the the major reform of the common agricultural policy has brought a number of changes for farmers. however, the main objective remains simplification and a lower degree of democracy in meeting the cap objectives. the error rate in collecting the data required from farmers as part of their applications remains a problem. the european union must be able to control the results of the cap, given the enormous financial resources it spends on this policy. europe needs a less bureaucratic cap and the creation of tools that allow checks to detect and differentiate between error and fraud in different applications. the experience of the last 2 years has shown that we need to work continuously to simplify the application systems and application forms for farmers and to promote the development of e-government, gradually eliminating the errors made by farmers.
in writing. ‒ in the current eurosceptic climate, it is crucial that citizens see that eu funds are being used for good and that they are being spent correctly and wisely. the common agricultural policy is a particularly sensitive area. it's important to monitor the use of money, but the monitoring mechanism itself is too costly, too labor intensive, and it's high time we reformed it. it's time to simplify and rationalize. which is why i welcome the report.
in writing. ‒ the current system allowing support from the common agricultural policy (cap) is too complex for slovak farmers. in this context, it can also be concluded that operators operating in this sector are burdened by a disproportionate number of checks. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution on performance-oriented controls in the common agricultural policy, which was designed to simplify and reduce cap bureaucracy and improve the cap control system.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal because it can lead to better detection of misuse of money in the cap. however, the problems of the cap are much larger and many of them are virtually insoluble, as they necessarily stem from the very nature of the cap. the abolition of the cap would therefore be ideal if the situation of consumers were to be genuinely improved and farmers given equal rights.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report because family businesses are crucial to the european economy. their role is important because highly specialised family businesses often serve as innovators and contribute significantly to economic growth through their long-term economic activity. this type of enterprise is of key importance, accounting for 85% of all european enterprises and 60% of private sector jobs. the report therefore rightly calls on member states to pay attention to smaller family businesses, to provide them with the appropriate support, to help them to use the digital infrastructure more effectively, to simplify their administrative procedures and tax systems, and to improve the legal framework for the transfer of family businesses.
in writing. ‒ european family businesses will play a very important role in revitalising the european union's economy and in boosting growth, as the european commission has committed to do through the juncker investment plan, as more than 60% of all businesses in the european union are family businesses. it is therefore incomprehensible that politicians pay less and less attention to family businesses. as a result of the lack of interest, family businesses are therefore in a very difficult situation, as they no longer fall within the definition of small and medium-sized enterprises, but are often too small to be defined as large enterprises, which means that they cannot benefit from special financing options or many other exemptions. family businesses need specific european legislation and politicians need to give this important part of the business sector their due attention.
in writing. ‒ the more than 60% of all enterprises in the union are family businesses. they represent a relatively stable form of business, the main aim of which is to develop the business, provide employment and income for family members and maintain the business for future generations. taking into account the specificities of family businesses and the appropriate legal and economic environment, they may be one of the most important and stable sources of employment in the coming period. the number of jobs lost due to the many difficulties associated with business transfers to other family members is estimated at 600 000 the most common reason is national legal requirements. editions.there is therefore a need to adapt legislation to take account of the sale, inheritance and donation of family businesses, the possibilities for financing businesses, the provision of various forms of support and the conditions of employment of members of the family. family.
in writing. ‒ the in addressing the high number of unemployed across the eu, which is close to 25 million people, with over 5 million young people unemployed, it is desirable to also focus directly on job-creating enterprises. these include, without doubt, the so-called family businesses, which are the single largest source of private sector jobs. i am one of those who believe that family businesses can play a key role in tackling the financial and economic crisis and in reviving the economy, as they represent more than 60% of all businesses in the european union and around 40-50% of private sector jobs. among the many advantages of family businesses, i would like to highlight the fact that they are closely linked to a particular locality by their own history and therefore maintain employment even in regions or rural areas. moreover, family businesses show more social responsibility towards their employees and more consideration in the management of resources. i therefore find it regrettable that, although family businesses play a very important role in our economy, they receive only marginal attention in legislation. there is also no legal definition at eu level yet.
in writing. ‒ family businesses have a unique role to play, as they combine the social and economic dimensions of business. they are often deeply connected to their place of operation and stimulate the development of the local community, for which they bring a very significant added value. that's why i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i am very pleased that, after more than six years since the end of the work of the commission's expert group on family businesses, we are once again opening a debate in the ep on this important group of businesses. i consider this particularly important because family businesses represent more than 60% of all european companies and provide 40% to 50% of all jobs and are an integral part of the eu's economic recovery. the positive aspects of family businesses are mainly that they create strong social bonds and ensure the transmission of knowledge and skills from generation to generation. but disparate laws within member states cause many complications for crossborder business, transfers and inheritance of family businesses every year, 450 000 family business transfers take place, with up to 150 000 businesses and 600 000 jobs disappearing. the most positive experience of family businesses within the eu is in the agricultural sector family farms.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that it was the european people's party group in the ep, of which i am a member, that initiated the call for the european commission to submit reports on family businesses and to set up a special group to assess the state of family businesses and improve the general conditions for this type of business across the eu. although family businesses have not had such a long tradition in slovakia, family businesses are important for the eu as a whole. i support stronger support for social entrepreneurship and social innovation in the fight against unemployment. it is important to create a positive environment for the growth of family businesses and, in particular, to improve awareness of the resulting employment opportunities for young people and women.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the proposal because i do not agree with activities to support 'family businesses'. it is an undeniable fact that family businesses in the european union today suffer from a high administrative and tax burden. but other eu entrepreneurs are also suffering. the solution is therefore to reduce the administrative and tax burden for everyone, not just for a select group of people.
in writing. ‒ the draft report addressed the importance of family businesses for the european union. however, despite their undeniable economic and social benefits, family businesses in the european union face many obstacles, for example due to the lack of a universally accepted definition of a family business, and the fact that family businesses come in different forms, from small and medium-sized enterprises to large multinational organisations. however, the lack of a uniform definition prevents member states from developing policies specifically designed to help family businesses. the report therefore calls for a uniform definition, but also for simplification of the administrative burden. recognising the importance of family businesses in creating stable jobs, including in rural areas and remote regions, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ for many europeans, the sea is a means of transport and a source of raw materials. we must try to better understand and document our seas and oceans, because they can bring many innovations and jobs. for the blue economy to thrive, we need to harness the full potential of emerging sectors such as aquaculture, cruise shipping, mineral extraction, biotechnology and others. but we must not forget to innovate in traditional sectors, which have already established their tradition in many member states.
in writing. ‒ the european union's blue economy has the potential to create and develop jobs. it is followed by and dependent on other inland industries employing thousands of people. increasing economic growth and creating sustainable jobs in this sector requires supporting research and innovation while taking into account the protection of the environment and aquatic ecosystems. the commission, in cooperation with the member states, must therefore focus its attention on this area, evaluate the needs and possibilities for funding research and innovation in the blue economy and pay particular attention to regions dependent on the blue economy.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the concept of a blue economy covers a wide range of economic sectors related to the seas and oceans, from fisheries to maritime transport and tourism to mineral extraction. i consider this blue economy to be important for future economic growth in the eu.
in writing. ‒ the eu is a global leader in the blue economy sector, but if we want to keep it that way, we should, in the interests of international competitiveness, look for new opportunities that will ensure sustainable growth for this sector not only at european but also at global level. i voted in favour of the current report because i believe that developing a blue economy, with support for research and innovation, can be a powerful tool not only for growth and development of the economy, but also for supporting smes and creating new jobs. i believe that by exploiting the potential of research and innovation in the blue economy, we can ensure the development of a wide range of economic sectors related to the seas and oceans, but i would point out that we must not forget the areas that have been the real pillars of the blue economy until now (e.g. fisheries, shipbuilding and repair, etc.). i expect coastal and island communities to be more involved in the development of the blue economy and to strengthen coordination and cooperation between member states and between regions in the blue economy sector in order to overcome existing disparities.
in writing. ‒ the blue economy links research and development capacities with business activities and allows them to be implemented within the structure of the local economy. it thus helps create jobs, food and health security, recycling and other activities. i voted for the current report because i am convinced that it is precisely the linking of research and innovation in the blue economy that can benefit regions with high unemployment and thus also help small and medium-sized enterprises.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on the motion because it is full of empty phrases without any concrete proposals and, moreover, is written in the spirit of highlighting the role of the state (or the eu) in promoting economic development.
in writing. ‒ the report has an important message, as youth unemployment is still too high in europe. the only way to reduce unemployment in the long term is to adapt education to the needs of the labour market. for example, it would be important to develop entrepreneurial skills at all levels of education. i support the report's call for the commission to increase the number of quality traineeship programmes, because they teach young people to think creatively, to solve problems, to work in teams and to be inventive. erasmus+ and the 'erasmus for young entrepreneurs' programmes, which provide young people with the opportunity to study and train abroad, are very effective and successful. we must do everything we can to ensure that young people find their place in the labour market after leaving school, and this report has a number of ideas for this, which is why i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ the european union can only return to its pre-crisis level with clearly targeted support for young people, as they are the largest group of unemployed. young people need to be prepared professionally and systematically to be prepared for the pitfalls of the entrepreneurial environment. the european commission must actively seek further instruments to support and develop entrepreneurship education for young people. the european parliament calls for the creation of a european network to share examples of good practice, of which there are many in this area, including an internationally proven long-standing network of national junior achievement centres, and also calls in particular on the european commission to prepare methodological assistance in the form of educational standards for entrepreneurship education and support for courses to improve teacher qualifications as methodological assistance to member states in integrating entrepreneurship education into training programmes and to allocate specific financial instruments under the erasmus+ programme for this purpose.
in writing. ‒ tackling youth unemployment, which stands at 22% in the union and over 50% in some member states, is one of the most serious economic and social problems. the way to improve this situation is to increase the quality and accessibility of education, together with the acquisition of practical skills, especially in the field of entrepreneurship education, which needs to be promoted at all levels and forms of education. the area of education is the exclusive competence of the member states. however, the union must be an effective and consistent coordinator in this respect. it has resources in the form of projects, but also in the form of financial instruments and support.
in writing. ‒ i regard the european parliament's own-initiative report on promoting youth entrepreneurship through education and training as a step in the right direction which deserves adequate attention from both the institutions and the member states. entrepreneurship education not only develops the entrepreneurial spirit but is also an effective means of promoting and increasing employment. entrepreneurial skills should therefore also find their way into education programmes, contributing to an increased interest in entrepreneurship, an overall entrepreneurial culture and creative thinking. i therefore join the call on the european commission to prepare methodological assistance in the form of educational standards for entrepreneurship education and support for courses to improve teacher qualifications as methodological assistance to member states in integrating entrepreneurship education into training programmes, and at the same time to allocate concrete financial instruments for this purpose already in the period 2014-2020. the development of entrepreneurship and business in the eu will also need to be kept in mind when preparing the new legislative and financial framework for the period after 2020.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on promoting entrepreneurship among young people through education and training, because i consider promoting entrepreneurship in the educational process among young people to be an important part of their practical application in the labour market, creating added value for the economy and ways of increasing youth employment.
in writing. ‒ europe has long struggled with the problem of declining interest in entrepreneurship, especially among young people. there are many reasons for this, but among the most common obstacles to entrepreneurship for young people in slovakia, where i come from, are a lack of start-up capital, lack of experience, knowledge and professional contacts. there are other barriers, but based on my own experience, i am convinced that there are many young people who would very much like to start a business, but they do not have an entrepreneurial idea and do not know what to do. as europe has been struggling for some time with the problem of declining interest in entrepreneurship, especially among young people, i supported the report presented because it comes with measures that can stop the process of stagnation. i am sorry that many young people today face difficulties in finding a job because of a mismatch between their education and the demands of the labour market. i therefore consider it extremely important to equip the growing workforce of young people with the skills needed to keep pace with a changing world. i am pleased that many eu countries are starting to measure skills shortages and adapt their education policies and strategies. unfortunately, there are still many countries that have not aligned education with the demands of the labour market, and therefore the entrepreneurship of young people in these countries has not progressed.
in writing. ‒ education and training should prepare young people for the labour market. however, it is not enough to create various support mechanisms; the basis of this situation is the improvement of the business environment. the company will best help unemployed young people and all those looking for a job by improving the overall business environment that creates new jobs. support mechanisms such as retraining of the unemployed, school-to-work transition and stimulation of job creation are welcome but directly dependent on the quality of the business environment. there is also a need to improve the training of people, particularly in the field of information technology.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the proposal because i do not agree with its directive approach, which also interferes with the competences of the member states. moreover, i have doubts about the wisdom of encouraging young people to start businesses with the money of the entrepreneurs themselves, which ultimately makes the business environment worse.
in writing. ‒ the european unemployment situation requires clear measures, including ambitious labour market reforms. taking account of the developments in our society in this field, the report seeks to provide concrete ways of responding to the challenges facing european youth: promoting entrepreneurship among young people, flexibility, lifelong learning, flexibility in career paths, mobility, continuing training and mastering the new digital tools. i would therefore like to congratulate my colleague michaela šojdrová on this excellent report, especially as she has succeeded in highlighting the importance of educating young men and women without resorting to the use of ambiguous words. that's why i've been so keen to give him my full support.
in writing. ‒ the report highlights the great value of entrepreneurship education and makes recommendations to improve the teaching of entrepreneurship skills at all levels of the education system, as well as to promote education in the member states and subsequently monitor its quality. i think it is the lack of education and awareness in this area that prevents young people who would otherwise like to start a business from taking that step or even completing their business plan. as rapporteur for the employment committee, which gave its opinion on the draft report, i proposed that it be used to call on the member states to provide, for example, micro-scholarships for innovative young people, but also to simplify the regulatory framework for social enterprises that create job opportunities for disadvantaged young people and those who are furthest from the labour market. by supporting them, as well as the overall support for the entrepreneurial culture, we can contribute to the success of young people in their entrepreneurial careers and, of course, to reducing their unemployment. i therefore supported the report and i am very pleased that most of my proposals for it have been accepted.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the report which sets the goal of a european year of cultural heritage and urges the creation of a single eu portal to summarise the possibilities of supporting cultural heritage, news, links, developments and events. this would provide a huge opportunity for local communities, including traditional national minorities, to preserve and promote the preservation of their cultural heritage. furthermore, it should not be forgotten that culture and cultural heritage are a common resource, a common asset and a common value for europe, and therefore deserve attention. in addition, cultural heritage can be a significant source of employment and income, which is also an important consideration in the current economic environment.
in writing. ‒ the european union needs a single portal dedicated to cultural heritage, offering citizens of the member states clear and comprehensible information from all european union programmes that fund cultural heritage. one of the steps to raise awareness of cultural heritage among citizens of the member states would be to establish a european year of cultural heritage. in the future, we must pay increased attention to renovation works, because in a number of cases their poor quality has seriously damaged and altered the cultural value of the object in question. the european commission must find a way to involve local communities, civil society and the private sector more in the process of protecting cultural heritage. any public policy on cultural heritage should therefore take into account two perspectives. first, that cultural heritage can be a significant source of employment and income, which are considered essential in the current economic context, and second, that the main value of cultural heritage remains its cultural value.
in writing. ‒ the protection of europe's cultural heritage requires a coordinated approach by the eu institutions, in particular the commission, and the relevant authorities and institutions of the member states. measures must aim at the prevention, protection and preservation of cultural heritage, its documentation and restoration, so as to preserve the significant cultural values of our countries and regions for future generations. the role of cultural heritage as an important economic potential, space for scientific research, regional development and tourism with an impact on employment should be emphasised.
in writing. ‒ we have a responsibility to preserve europe's cultural heritage for future generations. especially today, when the value of our traditions, our cultural heritage is under attack every day, we cannot afford to lose our treasures through forgetfulness, neglect. i therefore welcome the report which sets the objective of a european year of cultural heritage. i believe that in a year like this, they would have the opportunity to highlight the value of a traditionally diverse europe, our own european identity, which has been shaped by the interactions of peoples living together for centuries. this is what we need to strengthen today, this is what we need to preserve for the future for our survival.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the promotion of culture in the eu is an important part of its policy and that developing an integrated approach to it has a positive contribution also for slovakia, as confirmed by košice as european capital of culture. that's why i voted for this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution because cultural heritage is one of the pillars of european culture, it is a witness to our rich history, but also our common legacy for future generations. cultural heritage means tangible cultural things movable and immovable, intangible such as oral traditions, rituals, customs... and digital cultural heritage, so an integrated approach is needed to protect it. cultural heritage can be a significant source of employment and income, which are considered essential in the current economic context, and secondly, the main value of cultural heritage remains its cultural value. an ideal integrated strategy for cultural heritage should take both sides into account and combine the need for immediate growth and employment with an understanding of cultural heritage as a long-term resource required by a sustainable development plan.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the proposal, as in accordance with the principles of subsidiarity i do not consider it appropriate for the european union to deal with the subject of cultural heritage.
in writing. ‒ the report sets out the direction of member states in terms of access to cultural heritage. it emphasises the value of cultural heritage and the shared responsibility of the member states for its preservation and protection. within its competence, it shall endeavour to identify objectives in the field of cultural heritage and possible means of strengthening cooperation between individual member states, in particular as regards the exchange of best practices and the avoidance of negligent approaches to the protection of cultural heritage. as the slovak republic also has gaps in the protection of cultural heritage in some cases, as confirmed by recent examples from the slovak environment, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the since 2012, a european citizens' initiative has been available to residents of the member states of the european union. the european commission wants to use this mechanism to raise public awareness of european issues and to improve participatory democracy in the legislative processes in the european union. the initiative is the first successful one of its kind with over 1.6 million signatures. the european commission published its response to the initiative in question, clearly defining that water is not a commercial product and that the provision of water services is the responsibility of the local authorities closest to the citizens, and last but not least that water and sanitation services are to be excluded from the concession directive. despite the above, the european commission has not been clear on the signatories' basic demand to commit to legislation that recognises the human right to water. the commission also did not provide any binding guarantees that it would exclude water and sanitation services from trade agreements such as ttip and that it would prevent further liberalisation of water and sanitation services.
in writing. ‒ i support the initiative and agree that the public sector must be the guarantor of water security for the population. water is an important strategic resource with a fundamental impact on the lives, health and safety of the population. governments of member states should guarantee the constitutional right to water and access to it. the commission's task is to prepare the exclusion of access to water and sanitation from international agreements on network sectors.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this envi resolution because i support the idea of the right2water initiative and i firmly believe that water resources are a national asset and are particularly important for the slovak republic, whose citizens i represent in the eu. the economic and ecological value of water will increase in the coming years, and it is therefore important to ensure its supply to people and to protect its resources, not only from the point of view of protecting the natural environment, but also with regard to the economic structure of the providers of this commodity.
in writing. ‒ with the adoption of the lisbon treaty, we gave citizens the right to actively influence eu policy. the first european citizens' initiative entitled 'the right to water' asked the commission to submit legislative proposals on the ownership and management of water services. it should be stressed that for a citizens' initiative to be successful, it must have at least one million signatories from at least one quarter of the member states of the union. it is therefore only regrettable that the commission has not, on the basis of such an initiative, put forward a legislative proposal that would define water as a human right. i supported the motion for a resolution because it stresses that the production, distribution and treatment of water and sanitation services must remain excluded from the scope of the concession directive. also, due to the specific nature of water and sanitation services such as the production, distribution and treatment of water, it is essential that these services are excluded from all trade agreements. i would like to emphasise that i am glad that slovakia has enshrined the protection of water as a public good directly in the constitutional law.
in writing. ‒ without water, there is no life, and we must appreciate that we live in a region where there is relative abundance. however, this may not be the case in the future and it is therefore necessary to act together in the rational and safe use of water resources. the right of every citizen to access water must be linked to the fight against waste and degradation.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the proposal as i do not agree that the issue of water privatisation should be dealt with at eu level and not at member state or lower territorial level.
in writing. ‒ everyone has the right to life and life without drinking water is not possible. but we wouldn't last long without food either. and yet there's little point in talking about the "right to food". at least not until we have, in one breath, exchanged the conditions under which we can exercise this 'right'. water and food and air are our needs. turning them into human rights doesn't guarantee that we won't die of thirst or hunger. these are universal human needs and their fulfillment is a matter of basic solidarity between people. if we start to forget that, that solidarity will gradually disappear. i regret that the commission has degraded the institute of the european citizens' initiative with its public opinion polling decisions. this was particularly evident in the case of the one of us initiative, which gathered a record number of signatures. yet, the commission simply rejected her request to stop funding research that kills human fetuses.
i have to say, this whole thing has come down to a few of these key words. however, these key terms are perceived differently by the member states. one of these terms is quotas. unfortunately, the total aid to human beings, living people, has been reduced to a quota expression. it's not just in one country, it's in the vocabulary of politicians in several european union member states. the second major problem or key concept is the way of communication. the european commission, the european parliament and the council have not found the appropriate means of communication to bring this issue closer to the citizens of the member states of the european union. this is another reason why some countries have very complicated situations. and the third problem is, we didn't actually do anything all summer. we have been meeting here since april, we have had a minute of silence, we have adopted a resolution and no one has checked how the resolution is being implemented. i would therefore ask the commission to monitor closely the way in which the conclusions of the previous resolution, and of the one we are adopting in the next few days, are being implemented.
the current wave of migration marks a milestone for a continent built on christian foundations. a mass wave of migration could change the shape of europe. it's an opportunity and a threat at the same time. but we cannot ignore the huge numbers of people fleeing the horrors of war -- this war is being waged by islamic fundamentalists, and they are waging it for religious reasons, they are driving out many of their opponents. but it is clear that many people migrate for other reasons. and it is also true that we cannot and cannot accept everyone unconditionally. i consider it important to help all those whose lives are in danger. i appeal to the countries of central and eastern europe, which have their christian roots, to prove that the values of the gospel are not just empty words. but it is not within our power - not within the power of any country - to offer asylum to all people. i therefore consider it essential that member states have the right to choose which refugees they accept. after all, it is the citizens of the european countries who will share their neighbourhoods, their streets and their cities with them.
i would like to begin by thanking both rapporteurs for their really excellent reports. i would like to comment on the report on the urban dimension of eu policies, which i fully support, as it brings new tasks and objectives not only for local and regional but also for national and european policy. as i live in the city of košice, with a population of 250,000 in eastern slovakia, i know firsthand the problems of the city, which are linked to unemployment, serious problems in transport, lack of facilities and public services, and a decline in the quality of life of the citizens. but we have to admit that even in times of crisis, it was cities that demonstrated their capacity for economic and social development. therefore, although the european union does not have an explicit competence in the field of urban development, the various initiatives of the european union can have a direct and indirect impact on the development of cities and urban areas. the urban agenda should therefore be a joint effort by the commission, the member states and other stakeholders to achieve coordinated and effective development of cities and urban areas, including through the use of the structural funds.
the reporter. the essence of my report is to give an objective and realistic assessment of the european year 2012. however, the topic of active ageing and intergenerational solidarity is not only timeless but also of particular importance in the context of today's demographic developments in europe. the report therefore does not only look back at 2012, but also focuses on a number of concrete recommendations on how to continue to promote active ageing and intergenerational solidarity. i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs from the other political groups for their very good and effective cooperation in the preparation of this report. the european union is facing unprecedented demographic, social and structural changes. the ageing of europe's population is a reality and it is high time we embraced this reality. older people are active contributors to their families, peers, communities and nations and therefore deserve to be provided with an enabling environment to function to their full potential. and in this sense, population ageing should be seen as an opportunity, not a disaster. it is recognised that the 2012 targets were partially met. the best results were achieved in the area of awareness-raising initiatives and events. the specific positive benefits of the european year are the eu pact on demographic change and the active ageing index, the development of national policies, strategies and comprehensive programmes focusing on active ageing. we also need the commission to adopt an eu strategy on demographic change to coordinate eu actions to maximise the benefits for european citizens, the economy and job creation, as well as for the protection of the human rights of older people in all european union policies. we can't just sit here. criticism is directed at the late approval of the european year and the low budget. because both of those things have made it difficult to run smoothly this year, and that's a shame. the coordination triangle, which comprises all levels of decision-making, including eu, national, regional and local levels, civil society and the private sector, including sectors that provide innovative goods and services to support independent living, needs to be further strengthened. we also need proper statistics on the situation of the elderly and on demography. we call on the commission to do so in this report. we are concerned about the unemployment of people over 50 and the rising rate of long-term unemployment, as well as the widening gaps not only between member states but also between regions. the second part of the report focuses on concrete recommendations to improve active ageing and intergenerational solidarity. i would like to mention that we have to fight against discrimination. older workers often continue to face discrimination on the basis of age, stereotypes and barriers. i also want to mention that volunteering has an added value and i am disappointed that the grundtvig programme, which supported older volunteers, has been discontinued. ladies and gentlemen, active ageing brings new social needs that require investment in a variety of public services and in the health and care of older citizens. it also opens up economic opportunities arising from public and consumer spending linked to an ageing population and from specific products, services, innovative solutions and needs that create new jobs. we have a lot of work to do, so concrete political decisions need to be taken in the wake of these initiatives.
the reporter. i would like to thank all the colleagues who took part in the debate for their contributions. this discussion confirmed that the issue of active ageing is an agenda that affects us all, regardless of political party or other issues, and that this is therefore another reason to take it seriously and to ensure that older people have a truly dignified ageing and the same status as all the other components of our society. the few voices that have said that this report is just a fig leaf to try to keep people employed as long as possible, i want to say that there is nothing of that kind in this report, and if they read between the lines, they have a very vivid imagination. i have stressed this many times when we have been discussing this issue. the final word of commissioner tisen showed that the european commission is dealing with the various aspects of this problem in detail, very analytically, very specifically, and that it has a certain outlook or a certain strategy for the future, as to how it will deal with all these important issues. i would like to say that this is where the commission and parliament can work very well, very closely together, so that as soon as possible the situation of our elderly can be changed so that they feel like normal, equal citizens of the european union.
i strongly reject ideological interference with the right of parents to educate their children and interference with the powers of the member states. i repeat my persistent reservations about the use of the ambiguous term 'gender' in the resolutions of this parliament. the rapporteur also calls for eu accession to the istanbul convention. i believe that such a move would be a breach of contract. the istanbul convention requires the adoption of laws that concern, for example, the content of education or criminal law. however, under the treaties, the eu does not have the power to adopt such legislation. in a similar spirit, the european court of justice has ruled in the past, confirming that the eu's accession to the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms would be incompatible with the existing treaties on the european union. for these and many other reasons, i cannot support this report.
mr president, i have not thanked mrs rodrigues for this report. the european union was the great hope of slovaks for democracy, freedom and pluralism of opinion. after more than a decade in the eu, many citizens are starting to ask us: where is the democracy? we see repeated attempts to overstep the powers of the european institutions and to disregard the principle of subsidiarity. they disagree with the growing pressure to impose gender ideology in our schools, in our families, and in our society. but millions of people across europe say a clear 'no'. in france, italy, croatia, slovakia and other countries of the european union. we are obliged to listen to that voice. i call on the rapporteurs and on the representatives of the other eu institutions to respect the rules and principles deriving from the fundamental treaties of the european union. the rodrigues report, like the reports by ferrara, noichl and others, is just one example of how these principles are constantly violated. i urge that we respect the sovereignty of the member states.
in writing i can agree with many of the things mr juncker said about the migration crisis. but with a result that only talks about quotas, i'm not satisfied. without analysing what the commission and the council have done to date to tackle the root causes of migration, we cannot convince the public that we are on the right track and that this story is not endless. in april, we asked heads of state and the commission to adopt the toughest criminal sanctions against trafficking and smuggling, to work with europol, frontex, easo and eurojust to fight traffickers and criminal networks of smugglers, to trace their financial flows and how they work, to address the causes of violence and underdevelopment in countries of origin to stem the flow of refugees and economic migrants, to focus un-led negotiations on re-establishing government authority in libya, we supported the un. we called for intensified efforts to address conflict and instability in libya and syria as key drivers of migration. stability in conflict areas is crucial to reduce the rate of further displacement of people. we have not received a response to these requests today. i therefore do not think it is fair to focus the whole debate on quotas.
in writing i was personally disappointed by the speech of mr juncker, president of the european commission. i expected him to be more focused on issues like unemployment, investment, foreign policy, but also helping young people. at a time when farmers are on strike, it would be appropriate to address both the common agricultural policy and cohesion policy, as more than one third of the union budget goes to regional development. in his long speech, he focused on migrants criticised individual member states for rejecting redistribution quotas, appealed for solidarity, but forgot to mention the concrete actions of the commission to end the war in syria, to stabilise the situation in libya, to help in particular people in refugee camps in turkey, jordan, ... a year ago, when pope francis visited the european parliament, he called on all eu leaders to take action to ensure that the mediterranean sea did not become europe's graveyard. unfortunately, after a year, we have not taken any concrete action against smugglers and traffickers, and people are dying not only in the mediterranean but also on the european mainland. resolutions to resolve the refugee crisis are passed regularly, but they are not implemented. why is that, mr juncker should have said.
in his speech, president juncker stressed that migration is a test of european values. we must show the world that we are a proud continent that can not only protect its own security, but also show solidarity with those who are fleeing the threat of death and torture. i appreciate that in addition to this current problem, he has not forgotten the danger that threatens beyond our eastern border and expressed support for the citizens of ukraine.
in writing, i voted in favour of the resolution on the fisheries partnership agreement with cape verde, as this agreement will offer 71 eu vessels the opportunity to fish in the waters of the republic of cape verde.
in writing, i voted in favour of the resolution on the fisheries partnership agreement with cape verde, as this agreement will offer 71 eu vessels the opportunity to fish in the waters of the republic of cape verde.
‒ the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement with madagascar will allow eu vessels to fish in the waters of the republic of madagascar, and i therefore voted in favour of its adoption.
‒ the trade facilitation agreement is an innovative agreement not only because it is the first multilateral agreement on new rules to be concluded under the auspices of the world trade organisation since its inception almost 20 years ago, but also because it allows developing and least developed countries to group commitments into categories and decide on the timeframe for their implementation, links implementation in some areas to the provision of technical assistance, calls on donor countries, development aid providers and wto members from developing and least developed countries to take joint action to help these developing and least developed countries implement some provisions of the agreement, and, last but not least, includes a group of experts to assess the country's membership situation after the end of the notified implementation periods. the agreement in question is clear evidence of an innovative approach to recognising differences in implementation capacity between countries.
in writing, i voted in favour of the protocol as it allows developing and least developed countries to group commitments into categories and decide on the timeframe for their fulfilment, which means more freedom for poor countries and less risk of falling into a public debt spiral.
‒ i supported the proposal as i support the liberalisation of international trade. reducing the administrative burden in international trade is one of the measures by which the european union can really help the economy and employment, free of charge.
in writing ‒ over the next five years, the european union will provide €400 million to support reforms and trade facilitation projects in developing countries. they will serve as a priority to eliminate trade imbalances between the countries associated to the world trade organisation. developing and less developed wto members will be able to decide independently, within their means, which of the three specified time horizons to implement the planned technical measures to facilitate world trade. this will help not only developing countries but also the eu countries themselves. the ep will have to be informed of the actual use of the allocated resources.
in writing ‒ in voting to adopt the draft resolution on the protocol amending the marrakesh agreement establishing the world trade organisation, i voted in accordance with the position of the cor to adopt this resolution. the aim of the protocol was to facilitate international trading conditions for developing countries within the wto trading rules.
‒ i have supported the proposal as there is no reason to restrict austria, belgium and poland's access to this convention.
i voted in favour of the principle of fair solidarity between member states in dealing with the refugee crisis. i also supported the rigorous application of the return of those migrants whose lives are not threatened by war or famine. yes, every human has the right to strive for a better life. but right now, the priority is to save the lives of those people who are in danger. i couldn't support the increase in the number of asylum seekers being relocated from 40 to 160,000. i am aware that we must be realistic, but this parliament should wait for the agreement of the member states and then take a position on it. i am also against the transition from a temporary measure to a long-term mechanism, which is why i abstained in the final vote.
in writing. - i abstained on the keller report. the flood of refugees is unprecedented in europe and the union must respond. although the report made some positive suggestions and i agree with the theory of solidarity, i do not believe that mandatory quotas are the right solution because they do not provide a long-term solution. already, there is a trend that a large proportion of refugees will not stay in the host country designated by the quota system, but will move on to member states where they can count on greater social support as soon as they have the opportunity. i think it's more important to maintain the stability of the situation, to cooperate with the source countries and to protect the external borders.
in writing, i do not support the proposal for a council decision on the introduction of temporary measures in the area of international protection for the benefit of italy and greece concerning the introduction of emergency measures for 40 000 people. i do not agree with binding quotas for member states, even though it is a temporary derogation from the dublin regulation limited in scope and duration. i am disappointed that the ordinary legislative procedure was not respected in this case and that the european parliament was only very formally consulted on this issue. i believe it is more appropriate for member countries themselves to voluntarily demonstrate solidarity and a willingness to help their neighbours in need. at the same time, i expect the institutions and bodies responsible for managing the current crisis situation to function better.
in writing ‒ we are facing the biggest refugee crisis since the second world war, and therefore slovakia, as well as other eu member states, must be more responsible and show solidarity. for this reason, we cannot at this time declare that we do not want refugees, but we must try to help them. on the other hand, i'm against quotas. that is why, in the resolution on the proposal for a council decision establishing provisional measures in the area of international protection for the benefit of italy and greece, i voted against that resolution. the document contained several contradictory proposals such as a system of preferences for the country of relocation by migrants or a lack of consideration of preferences for member states, including consideration of the cultural and social environment of the country in question, which should be considered as an essential element in the integration of displaced persons.
in writing ‒ the introduction of temporary international protection measures for the benefit of italy and greece in the context of an emergency situation due to a sudden influx of third-country nationals has proven to be a necessary measure. the temporary measures also involve additional costs to the eu budget totalling eur 240 million over two years. as italy and greece are the first countries where migrants enter the eu, there is a need to strengthen the increased entitlements to funding, but also to help manage the asylum process. since amendment no 3 again refers to binding quotas and the roll-call vote has approved it, i abstained in the final vote on the motion for a resolution. the final vote approved the report and italy and greece will be required to submit to the council and the commission every three months a report on the implementation and proper use of the funds received under the approved decision.
in writing ‒ the current migration crisis has resulted in the introduction of temporary international protection measures for the benefit of italy and greece. these countries cannot cope with such a large number of refugees on their own, and so they are asking for eu assistance in this emergency. it is essential that other countries show their solidarity and thus provide assistance to the most affected countries to cope with the influx of refugees. since the report also mentions the introduction of binding quotas for all eu member states, i decided to abstain. quotas are not a long-term solution. we must learn from this crisis and prepare to deal with similar situations in the future. this will not be possible without more effective border protection, a stronger frontex agency and a new common asylum policy.
‒ i did not support the proposal because i am fundamentally opposed to the solution of the current problems of migrants by mandatory quotas for their redistribution in the member states. quotas only exacerbate the problem of migrants. a real solution requires the sealing of the eu's southern and eastern external borders and the establishment of central camps in north africa and the balkans where all asylum applications will be individually assessed.
in writing ‒ i'm convinced that even good intentions can have unintended negative consequences. unfortunately, this is also the case for mandatory quotas. not because we have an excuse to refuse to help people in need, but because solidarity and help cannot be forced. until now, quotas have mainly contributed to blame and strife, to increasing tensions and radicalising attitudes. it's not right, and we really have more to offer. we have shown this time and again in the past, when we have successfully dealt with several waves of migration. as pope francis said, we must help people fleeing war. the government must, without further delay and unnecessary emotion, invite representatives of the public institutions, churches, charities and ngos concerned to come together to work out a concrete plan for immediate and long-term relief.
in writing ‒ in the european union, 72% of the total population now live in cities, and this trend is on the rise. almost all european policies have real impacts on cities. the new dimension of cities as centres of employment, socio-political life and as providers of a wide range of services to residents and visitors requires a strengthening of the role of cities in european politics. not all european designs and regulations are equally applicable in cities. however, common challenges in transport infrastructure and mobility, the environment, energy efficiency, spatial planning and social policies predominate. addressing common challenges requires working with cities, coordinating them and developing an eu urban policy as part of european policies that takes into account the status and development of cities as centres of economic growth.
in writing ‒ i voted against the resolution in line with the group's opinion. although the resolution contains useful proposals, i am concerned about the overall future scope of eu urban policy, which could jeopardise the sovereignty of the member states.
‒ european cities are centres of economic activity, innovation and employment. this is evidenced by statistics that clearly show that in 2014, half of the world's population and 72% of the european population lived in urban areas, and that this trend is expected to continue to increase until 2050. although the eu does not have an explicit competence in the field of urban development, i think there is enough room for the eu, which has a direct or indirect impact on cities and functional areas, and for us meps. as i come from the city of košice in eastern slovakia and i know the surrounding towns very well, i can state very responsibly that these towns also experience problems associated with relatively high unemployment, serious problems in transport, their expansion, lack of facilities and public services and a decrease in the quality of life of citizens. i supported the report because i believe that it is the right step, which brings new tasks and objectives not only for local and regional policy but also for national and european policy. i expect the commission and the member states to better coordinate many of the eu regulations, programmes and initiatives that are relevant to cities in order to address urban issues.
‒ i supported the report as i agree that the commission should take the impact on cities into account in its policy-making and i also agree with many other proposals to make existing and future eu legislation more effective.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mr brok, i can only agree with what you have said. my question is this: what is your opinion of the fact that france and britain have decided to bomb the positions of the islamic state, while germany is trying to negotiate a different line, including with mr assad? would it not be better if at least these three large countries in the european union joined forces and acted together?
mr president, madam high representative, thank you very much for your statement, but i have to ask you a question. why is it that we are talking almost exclusively about israel and the palestinian people, but the title is the role of the european union in the middle east peace process? i am now calling for the european union to play an active role in the next peace process in that area, namely in north-west syria in the canton of gozarto or rodžava. there is a democratic self-government that fully respects human rights and democratic principles, which the european union needs to support, not just with words but with concrete actions. on the conflict in israel, i would encourage you to get the top-level partners back together. it is absolutely necessary because we hear that the palestinian leadership wants to cancel the oslo agreement and blames israel for not being able to secure peace. if it comes true, it's a huge step backwards for the entire region. the chance for peace will be squandered by the palestinians, and we must make sure that doesn't happen.
colleagues, the situation in the middle east has changed fundamentally. syria as a state does not exist. iraq as a state does not exist. palestine as a state does not exist. libya is a dysfunctional state. the whole region is in need of a new geopolitical arrangement. the european union has ambitions to be a leader in the organisation of the peace process between israel and the palestinians. but this can only happen if the european union becomes the leader in the new geopolitical ordering of the entire middle eastern space. today, the palestinian-israeli problem is not the central problem of the middle east, it is part of this overall geopolitical solution, and this is an opportunity for the european union, for both israel and palestine. if israel and palestine become allies in a new geopolitical arrangement, then there is the possibility of a rapid peace process in the middle east, and that is what our commissioner mogherini can focus on.
belarus is one of the last islands of authoritarianism in europe. it is very, very unlikely that this situation will change any time soon. president lukashenko's position in the country is very strong, decisive, almost all-powerful. however, we should be equally open to goodwill gestures that encourage belarus to open up more. the events of the last few months, namely the release of some political prisoners, are one of the main indicators of gradual changes. the signals coming from this country in the last few weeks should be read with the utmost care. but we should definitely take note of them and welcome them as a step in the right direction. these first gestures should not therefore go unanswered by the european union. we should look at and realistically assess the possibilities of lifting some of the restrictive measures that have been applied against belarus in recent years. and this should be done before the presidential elections to be held in belarus in october this year. ladies and gentlemen, i would also like to mention that i am also the rapporteur for the european neighbourhood policy. i would like to see the gradual liberalisation of the regime in belarus translated into its full participation in the european neighbourhood policy. belarus is undeniably a european country, it is really time to see belarus with european, democratic values. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure). )
blue-card answer.– definitely, yes, we should strengthen civil society in belarus. but we should be fully aware of the complexity and sensitivity of the situation, and we should strengthen the real civil society, not lukashenko’s regime. i am emphasising this because it is not so easy, and we should really have a strategy based on a deep analysis of the real situation in the country.
yes, human trafficking is a gross violation of fundamental rights and a serious form of organized crime. but we should pay particular attention to its new forms. surrogacy is one of them. first, it was women's eggs that were traded, now women are offering their wombs directly. these are mainly women from third countries and socially disadvantaged women. it is necessary to point out this modern form of abuse and slavery under the guise of the so-called rights of the child. surrogacy has become big business, and it needs to be said no. and the trade in the organs of aborted children is absolutely unacceptable. the recently revealed scandalous practices of the international planned parenthood organization must be properly investigated. until then, i demand the suspension of all financial support to this federation from our side. the european union, as the guardian of values and the protector of human rights, cannot turn a blind eye to such a crime. in a developed and civilized europe, there is no place for violations of fundamental human rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the deutsch report on cohesion policy. the sixth cohesion report assesses the situation in the field of cohesion policy and provides guidance on the future management and possible development of cohesion policy. the eu's cohesion policy is of particular importance for our region, as it plays a major role in reducing disparities between regions. it affects small and medium-sized enterprises, innovation, education, many areas of life. the report also rightly points out the shortcomings that need to be addressed in the area of payment difficulties and the need to address the future assessment of cohesion in cross-border european regions. the long-term thrust of the report is to plan for the period after 2020 with citizens and cooperating communities at the heart of cohesion policy.
in writing ‒ the channelling of eu resources to co-finance projects during the financial crisis helped to uncover shortfalls in member states' public finances, which had a positive impact on job creation. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. despite the cohesion policy, which has mitigated the impact of the economic and financial crisis, the reduction of regional disparities has not been achieved, as is evident in the poorest regions of the union. local and regional actors have to bear the burden of late payments from union funds, most notably the impact of the €24.8 billion of outstanding payments at the end of 2014 in the european social fund, the european regional development fund and the cohesion fund programmes. the commission must therefore take measures to mitigate the negative effects, while taking into account local problems and specificities in the granting of aid. the review of the measures taken is also an opportunity to reassess the eu's priorities and their impact on budgetary management.
in writing. ‒ the cohesion policy investments provide long-term stability to regions by securing the flow of funds even during the sharp decline in national public and private investment that accompanied the financial crisis. i am therefore very concerned about the significant delay in the implementation of cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020 and the non-use of the appropriations already earmarked for 2014 for the european structural and investment funds. such unpreparedness and complications mean that we need to continue to simplify procedures at both eu and member state level and reduce red tape in order to increase the availability and better use of the euro funds. in this context, i would stress that public procurement is a tool of good governance and should be legislated in such a way as to allow for the swift and flexible use of the european funds.
in writing ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution on investing in jobs and growth by promoting economic, social and territorial cohesion in the union. cohesion policy is an important tool for achieving the objectives of horizon 2020. the report presented adequately assessed the positive impact of the policy, but also identified the areas of concern and the objectives for its future direction.
in writing ‒ although the sixth cohesion report was submitted late, i voted in favour of the report because it not only gives an overview of the developments to date, but also looks ahead and points to the main objectives of investment in cohesion policy in the period 2014-2020. in the report, i particularly welcome the fact that cohesion policy investments have provided stability to regions by securing the flow of funds in a situation where national public and private investments have declined or even stopped altogether. on the contrary, i find it very worrying that the disparities between regions continue to widen and that many jobs created since 2000 are being lost. i consider very positive the measures aimed at supporting smes and improving the employment situation of young people. however, i am convinced that if we really want to help smes, we must create conditions for them that not only simplify procedures and eliminate unnecessary red tape, but also help them, above all, to draw on funds.
‒ i did not support the report because i fundamentally disagree with the way it views cohesion policy. cohesion policy, according to the report, has prevented the collapse of public investment in the eu as a result of member states' austerity measures and has also helped to reduce unemployment. however, this view sees cohesion policy funds as 'free money', which is not the case. all the money in cohesion policy comes from the budgets of the member states and ultimately from taxes on employees and entrepreneurs. cohesion policy has therefore not generated any new investment or employment growth, but has only replaced some of the more efficient and genuinely required investments and jobs in the private sector with less efficient investments and jobs for which there was no real demand in the market.
the european year of solidarity between generations has highlighted the importance of older people in an ageing european society. in this context, the report of mr kukana also drew attention to the situation of mothers whose pensions are negatively affected by maternity and unpaid care for children and family members. i have always stressed the need to tackle this problem with concrete measures. it is neither fair nor right that our society punishes mothers financially, when its prosperity directly depends on new generations of citizens bringing these mothers into the world and educating them in responsibility and solidarity with others. i supported this report and i hope that concrete proposals will soon be on the table. i also appreciate that the european parliament has accepted my proposal in time to extend the year of active ageing to a year of solidarity between generations.
in writing. ‒ 2012 was the european year of active ageing and solidarity between generations in the eu, which saw the launch of a number of initiatives at eu level to improve quality of life for older people and to respond to the new challenges posed by demographic change. the phenomenon affects almost every eu member state and is a social, political and economic issue that requires increasing attention. the parliament's report assesses the year's achievements and, among other things, states that the initiatives started should be continued. the report highlights the importance of convening the upcoming european union convention on demographic change, which could add new dimensions to the challenges posed by the phenomenon. it also encourages member states to use the available eu funding opportunities to achieve policy objectives on active ageing: the european structural and investment funds, horizon 2020, the european programme for employment and social innovation, the public health programme. the central european region also needs eu resources in this area to meet the changing health, education and economic needs of older generations. in accordance with the above, i voted in favour of the report by mr eduard kukan.
in writing ‒ the ageing of the population is a fact that the european union must face up to. the year 2012 brought a number of activities coordinated by the union which demonstrated the possibility of active ageing and ways of involving older people in different activities. co-paternity and solidarity with the older generation will contribute to improving the quality of life of these people and cannot be limited to the allocation of funds. the experiences and knowledge of an older generation can be motivating and inspiring for the succeeding generations and can contribute to economic development and growth.
‒ i take a very positive view of the issue of ageing and population ageing, mainly because i recognise the value of what older people have and can still offer to society. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur for the report he has produced and to commend the progress made in the framework of the 2012 european year for active ageing and solidarity between generations. i was happy to support the resolution, but i am sure we can all agree that there is still room for improvement in this population. i consider this to be important, particularly because this target group is the largest but also the most vulnerable group of the european population and their problems and needs are still not being addressed sufficiently at member state level. however, i believe that, as in 2012, we will continue to actively address the problems and needs of older people, thereby contributing not only to improving and enhancing their lives, but also to creating conditions for a better and more qualitative ageing of the younger generation of today.
‒ i did not support the report because it calls on the member states and the commission to take measures that will lead to an increase in the financial and regulatory burden.
‒ the report builds on the results achieved in the framework of 2012, which was declared the european year of active ageing and solidarity between generations. this year's objective was to create a culture of active ageing in europe and many of its objectives have been met and reflected positively to such an extent that the report calls for the concept of active ageing to be continued, in particular in promoting longer working lives for people who want and can work into old age, as well as the principle of non-discrimination on grounds of age and good access to healthcare. i supported the report because the problem of the ageing population of the european union is a reality that will become increasingly important in the future, and the concept of active ageing will concern us all in the future, and therefore we need to think about how it can be supported and developed.
in writing. ‒ the commission's 2011 white paper on transport states that mobility and employment must be increased at eu level, by reducing europe's dependence on oil imports and by reducing transport's carbon dioxide emissions by 60% by 2050. the parliament supports the objectives, but points out that there is a significant gap between the objectives and the means needed to achieve and finance them. parliament says that we must move towards stronger and more competitive, but also more environmentally friendly, transport as part of our political objectives. the text states that the implementation of trans-european transport networks is also a prerequisite for balancing transport modes and closing infrastructure gaps, and that this may be of particular importance in closing the gaps in central europe. transport policy developments should take greater account of the mobility needs and safety of eu citizens. this should be reflected in the construction of safer roads, the modernisation of urban mobility and infrastructure design, the development of intelligent vehicles and the focus on pedestrians, cyclists and vulnerable road users. i voted for the ideas.
‒ the 2011 white paper on transport sets ambitious transport targets for the eu, which should be met by 2050 at the latest. trends in the world economy require the building of a strong, competitive and safe system in all transport sectors, which takes into account the need to improve the quality of the environment and reduce the need for energy efficiency. the transport sector is also an important source of employment growth. the achievement of the objectives of the white paper and the creation of a fully integrated single european transport area requires the monitoring and reassessment of the performance of the individual tasks in the light of the ultimate objective and current developments in world transport.
‒ i consider transport and the creation of a single transport area to be very important also for economic growth, job growth and the quality of services in transport, which is why i voted in favour of this resolution on the implementation of the white paper on transport.
‒ europe needs a competitive transport system to increase mobility and promote growth and jobs. the commission proposal also aims to reduce europe's dependence on oil imports and to reduce carbon emissions from transport by 60% by 2050. i support the effective implementation of the white paper on transport because i believe that transport needs to become more efficient, cleaner, safer and more reliable.
‒ i did not support the report because i do not agree with many of the measures it proposes to support the development of eu transport and infrastructure. the report places too much emphasis on improving social conditions, reducing dependence on fossil fuels and other measures that will increase the regulatory burden and ultimately harm the very passengers they are supposed to protect.
in writing ‒ i fully support all measures that will lead to the advancement of women's scientific and university careers. in this area, all obstacles, unequal treatment and any discrimination, including prejudices, which are both a brake and a gross violation of fundamental human rights, must be removed. at the same time, conditions must be created to reconcile working life and the development of women's knowledge with regard to their maternal role.
‒ it is important that we promote the skilled employment of women in the labour market. however, i firmly believe that the introduction of quotas to determine the number of women in senior positions in the university and scientific sphere is certainly not the right solution to this support. that is why i voted against the ep resolution on women's scientific and university careers.
in writing ‒ despite the increasing number of female university students in europe, we continue to see women underrepresented in science and technology. this is evidenced by the statistics which show that in europe women currently represent only 33% of researchers, 20% of university professors and only 15.5% of heads of higher education institutions. i am personally very pleased that the issue of women in science and higher education is also beginning to receive greater attention within the eu. i am convinced that women represent a highly educated and intellectual potential for the field in question, which is proving to be very underutilized. on the other hand, i am pleased that flexible organisations are already increasingly accepting women in their key positions, not only for reasons of social justice, but also for their real skills and attitudes. although women are increasingly taking up occupations that were until recently the domain of men, i too continue to find that some still consider the connection between women and careers to be unnatural. i welcome all the actions and measures that address the elimination of stereotypes and prejudices against women and address the under-representation of women in science, technology, engineering and higher education.
in writing - i did not support the proposal. i do not agree with the measures presented, many of which increase the regulatory burden, ultimately in many cases harm women more than they help, are examples of positive discrimination or interfere with the powers of the member states. these are things like quotas for women on company boards, a call to teach children about 'equality' in schools, a direct call to support women in certain professions and so on.
‒ the report addresses the barriers faced by women in professions at all levels. it focuses on the fields of science, technology, but also on academic careers and management positions, where women are least represented. women who want to pursue their careers after having a family should be able to do so. more day care and nursery schools, adaptation of working conditions, such as more flexible working hours, the possibility of dividing parental leave and taking it up to the child's 12th birthday. these are just a few of the many tools that would make it possible for women to avoid having to choose between career and family.
i voted against this report because every family has the right to live freely according to their faith and to choose educational programs for their children without being discriminated against. parents are their children's first and foremost teachers. this right is recognised by the universal declaration of human rights, the convention on the rights of the child and the european treaties. the use of the term 'gender', which is not legally defined and whose meaning varies according to the context, leaves room for different interpretations and is not appropriate to refer to discrimination between women and men as it is also spoken of in the european treaties. the gender identities referred to in the report are not based on contracts or reality and are an ideological social construct with no place in compulsory education for children. this is just another report of reports that violate the sovereignty of the member states.
in writing ‒ i have no doubt about the importance of educating citizens in the eu. certainly, the education of girls in particular requires special attention. the lack of education often results in a lower social and societal status. however, the report submitted falls within the exclusive competence of the member states. it also addresses issues of sex education and training for children in schools, the inclusion of lgbti issues in the curriculum and other sensitive issues that member states have to address in light of their conditions, development, culture and history. this requires mutual tolerance, respect and understanding between eu countries.
‒ the rapporteur's own-initiative report on empowering girls in the eu through education goes beyond the clearly defined competences of the eu and into areas that belong only to the member states. in addition to the commendable efforts to ensure girls' access to girls, it demands and calls on eu member states to recognise mandatory gender-sensitive sexuality education and so-called sexual and reproductive rights as fundamental human rights of self-determination, including the controversial right to abortion. the commission also called on the member states to ensure that the eu's citizens are able to access the internet in a safe and secure manner. i firmly reject the report and such european attempts to encroach on the rights of the member states and to interfere in the private and family affairs of their citizens.
in writing. - it is well known that the greatest enemies of the blood-thirsty system are educated girls. and that's why, unfortunately, they're not afraid to take any measure to prevent girls from getting their hands on books. fortunately, girls born in the union don't have to worry about things like what happened to malala. of course, they can go to school and, in theory, have every chance of benefiting from the education system and, therefore, from the labour market, in accordance with their abilities. theoretically speaking. in practice, however, the numbers are skewed. gender equality in society can only be achieved through reform of the education system. this is the primary ground for overcoming stereotypes. the goal should be clear to all of us. that's why i find it outrageous that controversial issues of conscience and ethics are being brought up again. this is not a forum where we have to deal with the beliefs or personal lives of teachers. nor is it where we have to fight the symbolic battles of separation of church and state. it's time for our education to be about real equality, about ending poverty, about ending violence against women.
in writing ‒ in the european institutions, we increasingly encounter repeated attempts to overstep their competence and to disrespect the sovereignty of the member states, as well as the infringement of the inalienable rights of parents to bring up their children. i'm against the growing pressure to push gender ideology. the proposals for its introduction are aimed at indoctrinating society and, in particular, in the rodrigues report, at indoctrinating the very youngest, our children. i cannot agree with that, which is why i voted against this resolution.
in writing ‒ education and training for girls and women is an important european value, a fundamental human right and a basis for the empowerment of women and girls at social, cultural and professional levels. worldwide, 17 percent of the adult population is illiterate, and two thirds of them are women. education is a tool that enables women to gain economic independence. therefore, measures aimed at implementing gender equality at all levels of the education system must be effective and verifiable. member states must also integrate childcare and early childhood education into their education systems to enable parents to find a balance between work and family life. member states must ensure equal access to education for girls and boys regardless of age, gender, socioeconomic status, cultural background or religion. the principle of equality between women and men should be addressed in curricula at all stages of education.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the report because it fundamentally interferes with the competences of the member states in the field of education, as in other areas.
in writing. ‒ while the ecr group is a strong supporter of progress in equality of both girls and boys in the area of education, the report goes far beyond the remit and responsibilities of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality (femm) and of parliament, particularly in the area of education. the main areas of concern for the ecr deal with the prescriptive nature of the ‘training and curriculum’ section of the report, namely the suggested promotion of gender equality in member states’ comprehensive sex and relationship education programmes, the consideration of making sex and relationship education compulsory in the school curricula for all primary and secondary school children and the insistence on gender equality as a criterion for production of educational materials and gender-aware tutoring. some of the recommendations in the report constitute intrusion into the citizen’s beliefs, such as the need to include strategies for reflection on teachers’ own identity, beliefs, values, prejudices, expectations, attitudes and gender representations, as well as on their teaching practices, in teachers training. considering that neither the femm committee, nor parliament were given a mandate in the area of education and the fact that the above cited concerns constitute a very significant part of the report, the ecr was unable to support it.
in writing. ‒ in its report on the eea and switzerland, the parliament sent an important signal to the efta states by expressing its concern about the delay in transposing legislation affecting the single market. the ep stresses that the substantive legislation on the single market is implemented in time and with the least possible delay by the efta states belonging to the eea. the report calls, inter alia, for the removal of obstacles to cross-border labour mobility in order to achieve a more complete internal market, in the interests of eu citizens who want to benefit from mobility. it also agrees with the eu's rejection in july 2014 of the request of the swiss authorities to renegotiate the agreement on the free movement of persons. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing ‒ i appreciate the strong and long-standing relations between the eu and switzerland, as well as the efta countries that are members of the eea. the eea agreement is a key driver and has contributed to increased peace, prosperity and growth in europe. the european union should continue to strive to expand the single market, create a level playing field, create new jobs and promote entrepreneurship, including through support for small and medium-sized enterprises. in order to promote the development of eu relations with eea countries, i supported this report.
in writing ‒ i abstained from the vote on the report. i agree with many of her observations, but i disagree with her view of restricting immigration to switzerland based on the valid referendum result. the report points out how reciprocity between the eea and switzerland is essential and how restricting migration can create imbalances and jeopardise the benefits of the agreements for eu member states. the restriction of immigration in switzerland is of course unfortunate, but since it is a democratic decision of the citizens, it must be respected absolutely. furthermore, all cross-border trade is mutually beneficial and therefore there is no need to talk about any limitation of reciprocity or of the benefits of cross-border trade.
‒ regional instability and conflict and the rise of isis in neighbouring conflict areas are affecting the mass influx of migrants and flows of displaced persons, and thus the number of individual attempts to enter the european union. the european union and the member states must find an effective solution and strengthen existing cooperation in order to prevent further loss of life, prevent further disembarkations of smuggling vessels, speed up and streamline the processing of asylum applications in the member states, return immediately those who do not meet the criteria and fully integrate those who have been granted asylum. the european union must apply a zero-tolerance policy on trafficking in human beings and put pressure on member states to work closely with europol, frontex, easo and eurojust to combat these criminal networks of traffickers by identifying how and where they operate and preventing their departure.
in writing. ‒ i voted for aid to war refugees because we have to deal with this crisis and the european union has to deal with it. it creates an incentive for member states to do much more on all three pillars of the problem, especially prevention, that is, foreign aid, military if necessary, humanitarian aid for countries that are now hosting millions of refugees who are bearing a 100-fold burden. the common protection of the external borders should also be strengthened, and i expect further relaxation of the conditions under which the selected countries attract not only refugees but also illegal migrants, and that the separation of refugees from economic migrants finally begins in good time. the fact that one part of the resolution refers to uncertified mandatory quotas does not mean that we prefer to leave things as they are. this would mean the closure of the schengen borders and possibly the disintegration of the union as a whole. how much we've already sacrificed over the last 10 years to get into that european union.
in writing. ‒ the problem of migration and refugees cannot leave anyone indifferent to the stories of people fleeing the threat of war and violence to save their lives. we have already adopted several important resolutions on this subject in the european parliament, but the problems of migrants and refugees have deepened. a year ago we called on the commission, the council and the relevant security services to take measures to break up the smuggling gangs and groups and to prevent people from dying in the mediterranean. a year later, we find that smuggling networks have spread inland and people are no longer dying at sea but also inland, using the balkan route. i support all the points in the resolution, but i cannot agree with the point which establishes a permanent, binding system for the distribution of asylum seekers between the 28 member states, using a mandatory distribution key, the so-called quotas, which is why i did not vote in favour of the motion for a resolution. because i can't see how we're going to redistribute migrants to countries they don't want to go to. will we redistribute them by force? i can't relate to that. they left their own before the violence, and we're supposed to use violence again?
in writing ‒ i did not support the proposal because i reject the quotas for the mandatory redistribution of migrants between eu member states. this proposal promotes the breach of the existing rules on border protection and, moreover, does not solve the whole situation, but only leads to the creation of further new problems.
in writing ‒ i did not support the joint motion for a resolution because i reject the introduction of a permanent, binding system for the distribution of asylum seekers. it is not possible to pay for the holes in the common european asylum policy hastily by making the crisis mechanism permanent. when a window breaks, duct tape is a stopgap, not a solution. one-off assistance to greece, italy and hungary is essential to ensure that the registration of asylum seekers does not fail. but we know that the solution to the migration crisis must also include better protection of the external borders, a speedy asylum procedure and, with it, the effective deportation of unsuccessful asylum seekers from the eu.
in writing ‒ the parts of the resolution that offer quotas as a solution, i couldn't support. solidarity and help cannot be forced. however, i agree with many of the calls in the text, which is why i abstained in the final vote. it is important to set up the so-called hotspots as soon as possible and to ensure their efficient functioning. i also support the updating of safe countries of origin, which will allow for faster processing of asylum applications and direct our aid to those who really need it.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the eu approach that a comprehensive regional solution is a prerequisite for peace in the middle east. we are also concerned about peace in the region, as the union is israel's largest trading partner and the palestinians' largest donor of aid. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism. parliament condemns the continuing expansion of israeli settlements. the report also calls for the eu to take action to prevent the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the body. i supported the report.
in writing the long-running conflict between israel and the arab states, particularly palestine, not only affects the economies of these countries but also affects the economic and financial interests of the european union. attempts at lasting peace have met with only partial and short-lived success. the situation is also aggravated by political instability in neighbouring countries, particularly in syria. the eu is one of israel's largest trading partners and is also the largest aid provider to palestine. it is precisely this position that the eu must make more intensive and targeted use of in the process of peaceful settlement of the middle east problems. at the same time, i consider it essential to use all control mechanisms to ensure that trade and aid are used in a transparent manner and do not contribute to the possible support of terrorist groups and further escalation of tensions in this area.
in writing. - it would be nice to see some results in this peace process. somehow, it feels like we've been going around and around the same problem for decades, and we're not a hair's breadth closer to a solution. and yet generations are growing up on one side in fear of the radicalism of the other side, and on the other side in despair, isolated, in abject poverty, in refugee camps without education and without hope. recently, the eu finally took a stand and committed itself to palestinian statehood, while recognising israel's legitimate concerns for its own security. i think this is the way. at the same time, as mediators, we must facilitate dialogue between the parties. we need to create opportunities where israeli and palestinian youth, thinkers, teachers, scientists can exchange ideas, get to know each other without political pressure. let us not forget that syria and lebanon can play a key role in the peace process.
in writing. ‒ achieving peace in the middle east is a key priority for the international community and a necessary prerequisite for stability and security in the region. the eu has repeatedly reaffirmed its support for a two-state solution to the israeli-palestinian conflict based on the 1967 borders, with jerusalem as the capital of both states. the eu is israel's largest trading partner and the largest provider of aid to palestine, so the eu's role in the middle east peace process must be dominant. however, both the israeli and palestinian sides must refrain from actions that could provoke further escalation of violence, including hate speech and public incitement. this could jeopardise further negotiations and the eu's efforts to bring about a peace process in the middle east.
in writing. ‒ parliament recalls that human rights violations continue to prevail in belarus. progress has been made in some areas, but much remains to be done before a democratic state is established. since 1994, there have been no free, democratic and internationally acceptable elections. the ep also calls on the commission to take action to support the efforts of belarusian civil society, independent media and ngos with financial and political means to support the democratic aspirations of the belarusian people. i supported the report.
in writing ‒ despite progress in cooperation with belarus in some sectoral policies such as higher education, training, digital market, energy, food security and culture, human rights violations in belarus, including intimidation of human rights defenders, police raids against human rights organisations and confiscation of their equipment, and forced evictions from belarus, persist. the european union must ensure that its resources are not used to repress civil society organisations, human rights defenders, free-lance journalists and opposition leaders. the situation of national minorities in the country is critical because the leading representatives of these minorities are often replaced by representatives promoted by state authorities, thus violating one of the fundamental human freedoms, namely freedom of association. the belarusian authorities must ensure that democratic principles, human rights and fundamental freedoms are respected in accordance with the universal declaration of human rights and international and regional human rights instruments ratified by belarus.
in writing despite some progress in some sectoral policies, such as education, training, culture, food, energy, belarus remains among the countries where the rule of law is violated and fundamental human rights and freedoms are not respected. belarus has not yet held free and democratic elections that would help resolve the situation. the state interferes in several spheres, in particular in freedom of the press, speech and association, with undemocratic laws. the commission must use all diplomatic, political and financial means to support civil society in belarus. financial assistance provided by the eu must be controlled to prevent misuse.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the situation in belarus. in the run-up to the forthcoming presidential elections in belarus, the eu has an interest in ensuring that the elections are held in accordance with internationally recognised standards, that the opposition has unrestricted access to all government-controlled means of communication and can participate in the elections on equal terms, and that a transparent counting of votes is ensured. after years of stagnation in eu-belarus cooperation, the first official visit of the ep delegation for relations with belarus took place in minsk on 18 and 19 june 2015. the resolution also welcomes the constructive role played by belarus in facilitating the ceasefire agreement in ukraine. the progress made in sectoral cooperation with belarus in the areas of higher education, training, digital market, energy, food security, culture and others is also positively assessed. on the other hand, we would point out that belarus remains the only country in europe that still carries out the death penalty.
‒ i supported the motion as i agree with its calls for greater respect for human rights and democratic principles.
in writing ‒ the major economic and financial crisis, which has been shrinking europe's regions since 2008, has, among other things, caused a divergence from some of the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. however, in addition to the problems of migration, the european union will also have to urgently address the problems of economic and financial sustainability, social prosperity and job creation for young people under 25 in the near future. in addition to these challenges, the european union's leaders must not forget that our continent is ageing permanently, and must also give due attention to the ageing of the population and the depopulation of rural areas. many of these objectives can only be achieved if the social economy is functioning, as social economy enterprises have shown themselves to be more resilient to economic shocks and have stronger links with local and regional structures. social entrepreneurship and social innovation will be essential for the further development of the social economy. it is therefore crucial to pay particular attention to education and training. the european union must instill in young people, from an early age, this necessary enthusiasm for innovation and entrepreneurship.
in writing social entrepreneurship is an important tool for maintaining economic and financial sustainability, promoting sustainable job creation and social development. the priority of social entrepreneurship is to address the broader social problem of the community and the individual. the profits from such enterprises are not used for personal purposes but are invested in social purposes. it increases the durability and value of such a business. in order to allow such a business to develop more widely, it is necessary to create appropriate legislative and economic conditions. the commission, together with the council, must therefore set in motion all the processes necessary to promote and develop such businesses successfully in all eu member states.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the european parliament's report on social entrepreneurship and social innovation in the fight against unemployment, as the social and solidarity economy currently comprises 2 million social and solidarity economy enterprises, representing 10% of enterprises in the union and providing employment for some 14 million people. i hope that this own-initiative report of the european parliament will lead to an increase in awareness in this area, since, unfortunately, so far very little attention has been paid to the social and solidarity economy at european and member state level. i support social enterprises in particular because they put into practice the principles of solidarity and responsibility and combine the interests of members, users and the general or social interest, which takes precedence over the ruthless pursuit of profit or the accumulation of capital. i therefore join the call to the commission and the member states to create a favourable environment for the creation of business incubators for social and solidarity-based enterprises and to create and effectively promote an online platform for the exchange of data between social investors and social entrepreneurs, the social innovation europe platform.
‒ social entrepreneurship and social innovation are an important part of economic development across the eu. i therefore voted in favour of the ecr resolution on this type of business and its innovation, taking into account its contribution to the fight against unemployment.
in writing. ‒ while social entrepreneurship is becoming an increasingly popular tool to tackle unemployment, i continue to find that many people are still afraid to start their own business. in my experience, one of the biggest concerns of new entrepreneurs is that they do not have the necessary skills, do not have enough business education or do not have the right contacts to support their entrepreneurial ambitions. i am pleased that up to 40% of young europeans are interested in starting a small business or self-employment, so i think social entrepreneurship seems to be the right choice for them. i supported this current report because i believe that innovation in social entrepreneurship creates social value and at the same time allows people to be entrepreneurs, even if they have limited financial resources. i also consider it important that social entrepreneurship and social innovation provide an opportunity to respond in an innovative and entrepreneurial way to social needs that are often not met either by the market or by the state. i expect that this report will also make social entrepreneurship a major challenge for all member states which are lagging behind in this area.
in writing ‒ i abstained from the vote. while i recognise the benefits of social enterprise, i do not agree that social enterprises should have legislative advantages, be positively discriminated against in other ways, or even have specific taxpayer-funded financial support programmes set up for them. instead of these measures, better legislative and financial assistance is needed that will be widespread - in other words, reducing the regulatory and fiscal burden for all. this will enable businesses to succeed that genuinely meet the needs of customers, rather than businesses that enjoy bureaucratic privileges.
in writing. ‒ this report is in line with the report on promoting entrepreneurship among young people by my colleague michaela šojdrová. it highlights the social dimension of entrepreneurship. to be competitive in employment while maintaining its social welfare characteristics, the european union will have to do everything possible to foster the spirit of innovation among young people and invest heavily in education and training. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing ‒ unemployment remains a major problem for the european union. in particular, youth unemployment, which is truly alarming in some member states, as in spain, for example, more than 21% of the population is unemployed. these high figures can be attributed to the economic crisis, but the problem is that according to several studies, there are more than 2 million jobs in europe that are unfilled by employers due to labour market imbalances and lack of labour mobility. there are other problems such as labour market segmentation, the presence of a mismatch between the skills offered and those required in the labour market, together with the growing share of long-term unemployment. reforms are needed to create a competitive labour market, increasing labour market flexibility and career orientation and improving the match between skills and jobs, including greater synergies between education systems and business actors.
in writing the biggest employment problem in the eu is the long-term problem of youth unemployment, which currently stands at an average of 21.4%, despite two million job vacancies. in addition to lack of mobility, this is mainly due to a mismatch between the required and offered job skills and qualifications. education and training are not sufficiently responsive to labour market demand, resulting in high unemployment among young people with unusable skills. changes in this area are relatively slow, and as the labour market is subject to rapid change, the gap in skills demanded and offered may become even wider. the union, in cooperation with the member states, must therefore urgently analyse the labour market situation and adopt flexible measures in the field of education, training and youth to reverse this unfavourable situation.
in writing. ‒ strengthening a competitive eu labour market is one of the biggest challenges we face, and i welcome this report, which envisages matching available capacities with needs. on the one hand, unemployment is at an all-time high in many countries, and on the other, almost two million jobs are simply unable to be filled in some member states. we have done a lot for mobility at eu level, but it seems that we need to think in new ways, and this will require closer cooperation between education systems and the labour market. i think we will have to get to the point where we can open up the question of the eu minimum wage. while respecting the principle of subsidiarity, i believe that this should be defined as a certain percentage of average income in relation to the gdp and poverty thresholds of the member states.
‒ i supported this resolution, which i think is very well proportioned, reflecting the balance between the competences of the member states and the area where the eu can provide high added value. moreover, i appreciate the cooperation of the three largest parliamentary groups in the preparation of this report to the committee.
in writing. ‒ the eu is one of the world's largest exporters of goods and services, and the eu's single labour market brings a host of benefits and opportunities for businesses and consumers in the european communities. however, i think that the european labour market in the eu is currently facing very serious problems related to the slow pace of job creation. i believe that if we want to maintain and strengthen the competitiveness of the eu labour market, we should be bolder in our approach to labour market reforms, which could contribute to achieving the europe 2020 objectives. although the single labour market has created millions of jobs for europeans in recent times and allows them to work across europe, i see the key challenge as tackling the unemployment problem, which remains critical. even if some key points do not pass the vote, it is important that we continue with the strategy we have embarked upon. i join the call for member states and regional and local authorities to report on best practices that have enabled them to implement more ambitious reforms. i expect that creating a competitive eu labour market will increase inclusiveness, flexibility and mobility and create more jobs.
in writing ‒ unemployment is one of the european union's major problems. even more alarming is youth unemployment. it needs to be addressed systematically. it is necessary to ensure that people who leave school acquire work habits as early as possible so that they can become full members of society later on. however, it is more important for the healthy development of the european economy to create an environment that generates new jobs on its own.
in writing - i abstained from voting. while i agree with the problems mentioned and with some of the solutions proposed, the number of solutions put forward would lead to a further reduction in the competitiveness of the eu labour market, and thus would harm the very people it is supposed to protect. these include calls for financial support for different population groups small and medium-sized enterprises, programmes to re-skill and re-integrate the unemployed into the labour market, the youth guarantee scheme, erasmus for young entrepreneurs, incentives for businesses to invest in the training and apprenticeship of their employees and many more. it should be borne in mind that the financing of all these activities necessarily comes at the expense of higher taxes for entrepreneurs and employees, which ultimately leads to lower overall job creation.
in writing ‒ the resolution adopted provides an overview of the possibilities for creating a competitive labour market in the european union. it addresses the promotion of labour mobility, which is lower than in the usa or australia, and the need to link education and the labour market through cooperation between educational institutions, employers' organisations and employers, for example by exchanging best practices or by providing traineeships and training in order to respond better and more quickly to labour market needs. in addition, the resolution highlights the importance of public employment services, social investment and the importance of smes for job creation, and also addresses the provision of sustainable employment and quality training for disadvantaged groups of workers. as this resolution was in many respects in line with my priorities in the field of employment, i voted in favour of it.
in writing ‒ the implementation and transposition of european union legislation remains uneven in the member states, which, combined with language problems, excessive bureaucracy and a lack of knowledge, creates a european union that does not take into account the needs of citizens. citizens who want to live, work or do business in another member state face the daily reality of persistent problems arising from the uneven implementation of european union law in the legal systems of the member states. the european commission must urgently focus on effective problem-solving, effective governance and preventive measures, but also consider new ways of improving the transposition and enforcement of european union law.
in writing ‒ although the original compromise of the report presented looked promising, the final version is in a state in which i cannot agree with it, especially because of the efforts to increase the harmonisation of law in the eu and the consequent limitation of the sovereignty of the member states. that's why i was against it.
‒ i supported the motion for a resolution which proposes how to ensure better application of eu law in individual member states. eu citizens must be informed in a timely and transparent manner about how national authorities implement european legislation. there are situations where implementation is insufficient, uneven across member states. on the other hand, there are cases where member states create standards and regulations or procedures that go beyond their obligations towards the eu and may even be contrary to the expected results. then there are cases where harmonised law, which is supposed to make life and work easier for citizens, complicates matters for them by uneven harmonisation. the annual report also highlights the very current problem of a fragmented common asylum policy within the eu, which is causing major problems in the face of the current huge wave of migration from the middle east, afghanistan and africa. the report also highlights the important role of citizens, businesses, ngos and other stakeholders in the application of eu law, who have the opportunity to address complaints, petitions and questions to the eu institutions and representatives if they find that eu law is not being applied sufficiently.
‒ i did not support the proposal because it presents a number of challenges that would damage the eu economy and jobs, or are otherwise incorrect, such as criticism of austerity measures in high-debt countries, the call for a common european asylum system, greater 'social dialogue' in refit, greater harmonisation of environmental legislation at eu level, and so on.
the conclusions of the council of ministers on migration have shown us, colleagues, how little we have been able to do in practice. since the beginning of the year, when this exodus actually started on the scale that we have, we see that we have limited legislation, limited powers, solutions have been delayed for a long time until the situation has escalated to this form. i am therefore pleased that the council conclusions also mentioned concrete solutions. solutions to help deal with the situation not only of the refugees that we currently have in the member states of the european union, but in general, how to look at a common european solution, because we still have problems, for example, with the implementation of poseidon and triton. in conclusion, i would like to say how very sorry i am that the most important and crucial issue in this situation has become the issue of quotas, or mandatory redistribution. it's a great pity for the eu that we focus on criticizing states that disagree on these issues instead of looking for what unites us.
madam president, while discussing the dramatic situation with the refugees, we should not lose sight of the western balkan region. as last night’s situation at the hungarian-serbian border showed, the current migration crisis extends beyond eu borders and is a hard test of feasibility for our western balkan partners. serbia and macedonia are under heavy pressure with the flows of migrants in a similar way to italy, greece or hungary. we should not forget this while distributing funds and should support these countries as well. the western balkan countries are our partners and cannot be left out of the discussion on a possible solution to this crisis. we need to find a common solution together with our western balkan partners.
in writing. the council of heads of government should be convened immediately, as the council of ministers of the interior has made the worst possible decision instead of a compromise. the delay has left migrants already admitted and the member states concerned, as well as transit countries and refugees stranded there, in a state of total uncertainty. it is a trauma that the mandatory quotas were not passed, but the fact that a number of member states unilaterally closed the internal schengen borders, one of the most important acquisitions of the eu, on the same day, causing enormous chaos for those who move across the border, was noted with angelic calm by the competent ministers. the great achievement of the collection points hotspots is worth nothing unless the dublin convention is also amended to prevent the return of unwanted refugees from northern europe to the country of first registration. there is a real chance that it will also separate individual member countries by barbed wire. the lack of solidarity is not limited to the v4 countries, as the eu itself contributed €41 million to the fund for the countries affected by the syrian crisis (madad), pending further contributions from member states, but only €5 million from germany and €3 million from italy have so far been received. in my view, the member states should take their share of the commitments in proportion to their share.
in writing. climate change and the environment: climate change not only negatively affects the environment, but also negatively affects development and human rights, intensifies poverty and threatens people's livelihoods. in countries that are already vulnerable and prone to conflict, climate change is another factor that complicates existing humanitarian, development and security challenges. the new development agenda for 2015-2030 must respect the social, economic and environmental dimension of sustainable development, emphasising poverty eradication, ensuring basic standards of decent living, democracy and the rule of law, with particular regard to the empowerment of women and gender equality. the post-2015 programme shall include a robust framework for monitoring, accountability and evaluation of the achievement of the sustainable development goals. the main objective of cop 21 is to adopt an international agreement on climate change that will allow global warming to be kept below 2 °c and to reach a series of major decisions on combating climate change and financing activities to combat climate change.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the parliament's resolution on the european commission's work programme for 2016. the resolution proposes more effective eu action in a number of areas, such as trade, the environment, agriculture and energy, to boost european jobs and growth and provide a more favourable environment for investment. a very important part of the resolution for me is the parliament's request to the commission on the rule of law and fundamental rights, that the commission address the current shortcomings and loopholes in respect for the values on which the union is founded, namely human dignity, freedom, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. national minorities do not yet enjoy adequate protection at eu level, but the general principle of non-discrimination is accepted. parliament strongly supports action against discrimination and, in the same vein, calls on the commission to propose initiatives to strengthen the fight against discrimination. the commission's proposals may also serve the interests of indigenous minority communities.
in writing. ‒ the the european commission, in its 2016 work programme, must aim to complete the labour mobility package and adopt measures to promote the inclusion and employability of european workers and address the long-term unemployed as well as the under-25s. the european commission must take concrete action to eliminate persistent discrimination in the labour market, in particular with regard to older workers, women, workers with disabilities and young people. it is very important that we call on the european commission to take an active role in tackling gender balance and to focus on the factors that discourage women from becoming entrepreneurs. the european commission must respond to the migration and humanitarian crisis in europe by presenting a new legislative proposal for a smart border package immediately after the conclusion of the pilot project in order to speed up, simplify and strengthen border checks on foreigners travelling to the european union. the european union needs to move towards a more modern and efficient border management through the use of state-of-the-art technologies, while providing citizens with appropriate safeguards. the european commission must start to take a more active approach to the european citizens' initiative and take appropriate action following up on each successful initiative, and in general focus on addressing the shortcomings and limitations of this instrument.
in writing. in 2015, the european union must address major internal and external challenges, ranging from the impact of the economic crisis to the decline in competitiveness and economic growth, from high unemployment to the mass migration of people from africa to europe. however, experience has shown that many problems are not tackled in sufficient time or in advance, and the commission's proposal lacks flexibility, resilience, decisiveness and a certain foresight. often, ready-made solutions are replaced by indecision and procrastination. such an approach does not help the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy, but also reduces trust in the eu itself. the commission must therefore take action and use all its powers to reverse this unfavourable situation and to increase public confidence in the eu.
in writing. ‒ taxation and competitiveness are two sides of the same coin. just as the practice of corruption and tax evasion is rooted in the same thing. we must put an end to the practice of member states granting tax breaks to large companies through hidden transactions, and the time for post office companies is over. every company has to pay tax in the country where it does business, and it is time to finally get serious about tax harmonization. the disparity between eu tax systems is a huge discrimination against micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. i think it is important that companies not only take advantage of the single market but go further and indeed contribute to the common economic development in the form of tax payments. i also stress that with a harmonised tax system, the whole tax system would become much more transparent and the suspicion of tax fraud or corruption would be detected much earlier.
in writing. ‒ in the case of the european parliament resolution on the commission's 2016 work programme, i voted against this document in line with the cor's position. the proposed programme contains a number of positive initiatives, but at the same time i could not agree to the serious proposals that are not in line with the subsidiarity condition, such as the harmonisation of social and migration policies for the member states. i also reject the call for the eu to accede to the istanbul convention.
in writing. in the emergency vote on the european commission's proposal for migration relocation, i did not support the parliament's decision or the commission's proposal in its present form. it's not a lack of solidarity. we are ready to be part of the solution, but the migration crisis cannot be solved within the eu alone. the admission of refugees and their allocation according to quotas in each member state will not yet solve the current crisis. after all, the wave of migration can go on for years. of course, we must help those who are suffering political persecution, because it is our duty. but the solution is not to have a crisis somewhere in the world and then move the middle class there to europe. europe cannot afford to do this indefinitely, but we are depriving the most mobile, most educated sections of the societies concerned. one of the keys to a long-term solution is stability in countries of origin and transit. the eu can provide help and support in this regard.
in writing. ‒ i have been clear against any redistribution of migrants between member states on the basis of quotas. in this particular vote, i expressed my position against the mechanism for the mandatory relocation of refugees. the european union must find concrete measures to deal with this situation and must not narrow the whole debate to compulsory quotas, which are not the solution.
in writing. ‒ i could not vote in favour of the commission's proposal with a clear conscience, because i believe that the text still needs to be amended and that the voting procedure - that is, the fact that the specific text to be voted on and the amendments to it were made available to members at the last minute - is irresponsible. of course, we know that the time is short and that now is the time for action. however, in this particular case, it is a programme to be implemented over a period of two years to relocate refugees already living in the union. today, less than one tenth of these are in the countries listed for assistance, since they have long since moved on. but there is nothing to stop action at member state level. i do not think that the quota system is the key issue in this matter, and that is why i cannot support it, but rather concrete steps to tackle the root of the problem. everything must be done to stabilize the situation in the middle east, to finally achieve a ceasefire. at the same time, we have a moral obligation as europeans to help those in need financially. the eu member states must indeed go into their own pockets and support the turkish, jordanian and iranian refugee camps, which are operating in the midst of great difficulties, through safe channels. it is in our own interest to do so, because if we do not, millions of hungry people will be heading for the eu.
in writing. ‒ the legislative resolution on the proposal for a council decision establishing temporary measures in the field of international protection for the benefit of italy, greece and hungary made a number of appeals for solidarity with people in need seeking refuge in europe. although the proposal took into account the cultural and social ties of the host country, as well as the necessary degree of solidarity between member states, the ultimate aim of the document was to impose mandatory quotas for the admission of refugees for the member states. that is why i abstained from voting on this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the motion for a resolution because i do not agree that a one-off provisional measure should become a permanent instrument of eu asylum policy. the discussion of one-off aid to italy, greece and hungary is appropriate, but ideally it should result in a joint solidarity approach, not a majority mandate. but if we want to adopt longer-term solutions that take into account the different aspects of the problem of mass immigration to europe from africa and the middle east, i insist on following the proper legislative procedure. today, the dublin regulation is still in force, which determines the procedure and responsibility of the member states for the asylum process. if this regulation no longer corresponds to the new situation, it should be amended or replaced. there are proper legislative procedures for this, which cannot be circumvented by invoking a state of emergency.
in writing. ‒ my position on quotas remains unchanged, which is why i could not support the commission's proposal. i decided to abstain because i also took into account other measures which, although not included in the commission's proposal, are being implemented by the commission in parallel. i agree with these measures. these are the proposal for a european list of safe countries (to deal more effectively with asylum applications from those who are truly in danger of losing their lives), the publication of a guide for a more effective return policy (to speed up the return of those who have been unsuccessful in their asylum application), the creation of a trust fund for africa (to support the creation of a more stable environment in african countries) and the creation of hotspots (cooperation points between the european asylum office, frontex, europol and eurojust to allow for more efficient registration of asylum seekers).
in writing. the financial and economic crisis has affected all the member states of the european union, but greece has been particularly hard hit. the country faces a lack of liquidity and public funds available for public investments needed to support a sustainable recovery. however, the lack of liquidity and public finances must not prevent investments under programmes supported by the european regional development fund, the european social fund, the cohesion fund and the european maritime and fisheries fund, as if these investments were to stop, the country would be in existential difficulties. i therefore support the european commission's proposals to provide additional pre-financing for the 2014-2020 cohesion policy operational programmes under the investment for growth and jobs goal. it is essential that the amount of the additional initial advance payments is used effectively and reaches the beneficiaries of the esf, the cohesion fund and the emff as quickly as possible so that they can make the planned investments and receive reimbursement immediately after the submission of payment applications. we must recognise the urgency and seriousness of this support and contribute to the overall effort to provide assistance to greece.
the european union must continue to play an active role in supporting local authorities and promoting democratic and transparent governance. local authorities will be key to achieving the objectives set for the period after 2015, as they represent a strong link between european union, national and global objectives. it is very important that in the future we can better involve civil society organisations, local authorities and national parliaments and thus strengthen the position of local authorities, thus ensuring proper, transparent and accountable governance in this process. i also think it is equally important that we strive to create more new and decent jobs. the european union and its member states, as the largest donors of official development assistance, but also as key policy makers and actors of decentralised cooperation, should remain the driving force during the next phase of negotiations within the un. i am convinced that in the future we must better target aid to developing countries to respond to the needs of the most vulnerable groups. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. mr. chairman, that was a very bad question, directed at my country. my country received a lot of help before it even joined the european union, and i'm very happy that the european union is the force and the actor that helps these countries.
the european union maintains a high standard of protection of human rights and freedoms and seeks to set an example for the rest of the world in promoting, observing and respecting them. we are therefore concerned about the case of the italian company hacking team, which sells tools that allow governments and other users to monitor and record every digital movement of an individual, including countries that have been repeatedly criticised by the eu for their human rights record, such as egypt, morocco, uzbekistan and bahrain. the european commission must therefore react promptly, as the market in which the firm operates is currently very little controlled and largely unregulated. by doing so, we will send a clear signal to our partners that violations and disregard for fundamental human rights and freedoms will not be tolerated in the european union. the european commission must also find a way to stop the sale of products that allow such human rights violations in the context of the issue by effective policies. i also think it is necessary to give serious thought to the budget of the european network and information security agency, which has suffered from financial under-resourcing for a long time and is unable to respond to similar situations in a timely manner.
smes are the backbone of the european economy. they represent 99% of all european enterprises and employ up to 75 million workers. for small businesses, there is a need to simplify access to finance for businesses, reduce the administrative burden and encourage people to start businesses. one of the ideal tools that can motivate people to become entrepreneurs is the adoption of the single-member limited liability company directive, which allows a company to be set up in the union through online registration with a minimum capital of eur 1. despite the fact that there are up to 21 million smes in the european union, there are still differences in legislation. it is crucial that we remove administrative barriers, use new digital technologies and exploit the full potential of our common market. this proposal to make it much easier to start a business has already been passed in the committee on the internal market and i believe that everyone who cares about reducing administration, simplifying life and using new technologies, including in this parliament... (the president interrupted) will support this important initiative.
the ippf, which also provides abortion services, among other things, has been caught systematically and grossly trafficking in human body parts and whole dead fetuses. we found out that this organization has been paid by the european commission for a long time in very small amounts. in recent years, it has been millions of euros, which is taxpayers' money. on 20 july, i wrote to the european commission asking whether it was aware that such an organisation was being paid, whether it was aware that the ippf was an organisation that was violating specific european law and all moral standards by such unprecedented actions, and whether the commission would condemn such a practice and end the funding. three months have passed and the commission has not responded. will i and the public have an answer? how long will he hesitate? when will the commission finally stop cooperating with such an inhumane organization?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in the summer of this year, 800 000 refugees were expected to arrive in germany. a current estimate is 1.5 million. the difference of 700 000 is due to angela merkel and her irresponsible and destructive policies. mrs merkel has annulled the dublin agreement and is in breach of the german basic law. she can't! most of the people who come are economic migrants, not war refugees. if you cross four or five safe countries, you're not fleeing from a war. it is an illusion to believe that these migrants will work for the german pensions. the german minimum wage is too great a barrier to this. germany can only offer social benefits. mrs merkel has obviously forgotten who elected her and who she is supposed to protect. it's high time we woke up and stopped this invasion. australia has done it.
in writing. i appreciate that heads of state have made clear their commitment to tackling the refugee problem where it arises. without increased humanitarian aid in turkish and jordanian camps, strengthened protection of the european union's external borders and, last but not least, effective action against the islamic state, the flow of migrants will not be stopped. at the same time, we have a collective responsibility to help people fleeing war and violence.
in writing. the only solution to the refugee problem is a stronger europe. it is clear that no single member state can cope with the refugee crisis today on its own. only the united can help. the example of the court case on quotas is counterproductive for my country, slovakia, and an irresponsible waste of time in terms of resolving the refugee issue. we need immediate concrete action and not a continuation of the embarrassing and useless spectacle. in my view, the establishment of a common foreign policy, a common border security and a common army is an unavoidable and absolute priority. member states should stop blaming each other and the union for their alibis. we must move immediately towards closer cooperation, towards a stronger europe. it's our only hope that this situation won't destroy what we've already achieved.
in writing. - i voted for mrs stevens' report. it is unacceptable that forced labor is still present in modern society and economy. despite a convention dating back to 1930 that has been ratified by almost every country in the world, according to the international labour organization, there are still at least 20.9 million victims of forced labor worldwide. to address the problem more effectively, the ilo has drawn up an additional protocol to the convention. the purpose of the protocol is to address shortcomings in implementation in order to ensure protection and compensation for victims of forced labour. it is a positive step that the protocol requires ilo member states to develop their policies and action plans for the effective and lasting elimination of forced labour. the protocol also emphasises the prevention of forced labour and the compensation and protection of victims, which are also important elements of the problem's eradication. the ratification of the protocol by member states will facilitate action against traffickers. as parts of the protocol fall within the eu's competence, a council decision is required for its ratification. this required the consent of parliament, which is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ despite many steps taken to end the use of forced labour, there are still more than 20 million people who are forced to perform forced labour. in accordance with the case law of the court of justice of the european union, member states cannot decide to ratify the protocol outside the framework of the institutions of the european union, as parts of the protocol fall within the competence of the european union. the draft council decision empowers member states to ratify, in the interest of the european union, those parts of the protocol which fall within the competence of the european union and recommends that they do so, if possible, by the end of 2016. ratification of the protocol would be a major step forward in the fight against trafficking in human beings, labour exploitation and the protection and compensation of victims of forced labour.
in writing. ‒ the convention on forced or compulsory labour became binding on slovakia in 1990. by adopting it, all member states committed themselves to combating the use of forced or compulsory labour in all its forms as soon as possible. nevertheless, it is estimated that there are currently 21 million victims of such practices, generating illicit profits of around usd 150 billion and damaging the economic interests of the union. it is therefore necessary to re-evaluate the strengthening of the fight against forced or compulsory labour and adapt it to the conditions of the 21st century. at the 103rd session of the international labour conference in june 2014, a new ilo protocol was adopted, which strengthens international cooperation in combating forced or compulsory labour and introduces new measures, in particular on trafficking in human beings, improving protection for victims and providing access to compensation. states that ratify the ilo convention must develop a national strategy and action plan to combat forced labour. prevention is important in this process, which includes in particular informing vulnerable persons and protecting them against possible fraudulent recruitment practices. the member states are hereby authorised to ratify, in the interest of the eu, those parts of the protocol which fall within the eu's competence.
in writing. ‒ the in the context of the recommendation on the draft council decision authorising the member states to ratify, in the interest of the european union, the 2014 protocol to the ilo convention on forced or compulsory labour, i am keenly aware of the experience of the recent years of recession, when in our country alone almost 15% of people were unemployed for some time. many of them have thus found themselves in financial straits that make them easy prey to the illegal practices of modern slavery, not only abroad but also at home. i therefore welcome the recommendation to ratify the ilo convention on forced or compulsory labour, which will facilitate the fight against such traffickers. moreover, the number of victims of forced or compulsory labor worldwide is still estimated at over 21 million today. i appreciate that the convention introduces an obligation to ensure their identification, release, protection, recovery and rehabilitation, as well as that other provisions require ratifying states to provide all victims with access to compensation and to ensure that competent authorities are empowered not to prosecute them for the illegal activities they were forced to commit.
in writing. ‒ unfortunately, forced labour is not a historical concept, but a very real reality today. i therefore consider it extremely important that all eu member states should join the international labour organisation (ilo) convention on this subject as soon as possible. this convention is important to make enforcement and judicial cooperation in the prevention and prosecution of forced labour more effective, to protect workers from exploitation and to provide compensation to victims. the right to work is one of the fundamental human rights and it is crucial that we use all means to ensure that citizens have the right conditions and are protected from becoming victims of tyranny. to do this, the adoption of this convention by the ep is one of the first steps.
in writing. ‒ helping victims of trafficking in human beings for the purpose of forced labour is an essential part of the fight against this crime. i very much welcome the fact that the 2014 additional protocol calls for effective measures to identify, release, protect, recover and rehabilitate these victims, and also focuses on their compensation and protection from prosecution. i agree that member states should be mandated to ratify the protocol to the forced labour convention, 1930, concerning labour exploitation and trafficking in human beings for that purpose. under eu law and its interpretation as established by the case law of the european court of justice, member states could not ratify certain parts of the protocol falling within the eu's competence without an eu mandate, and i therefore voted in favour of this recommendation. however, it should be recalled that any other form of trafficking in human beings, whether sexual exploitation, trafficking in human organs or a new form of so-called surrogacy, must be tackled with equal vigour.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the proposal for a european parliament legislative resolution on the proposal for a council decision authorising the member states to ratify, in the interest of the eu, the 2014 protocol to the 1930 international labour organisation convention on forced or compulsory labour, as regards articles 1 to 4 of the protocol relating to matters concerning judicial cooperation in criminal matters. the protocol requires member states to develop a national policy and action plan for the effective and systematic suppression of forced labour and to adopt measures to implement the provisions of the protocol. the 2014 protocol addresses fundamental rights, victims and the fight against trafficking in human beings, a crime that has consequences not only for individuals but also for society and the economy as a whole. the ratification of the protocol by the member states will facilitate the fight against trafficking in human beings and therefore the member states should ratify the protocol as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal as i support the fight against forced labour and measures to eliminate it.
in writing. ‒ i supported the protocol to the ilo convention on forced labour. in this context, parliament authorised the member states to accept those parts of the protocol which fall within the competence of the european union, since the member states cannot decide to accept them on their own. i fully support the aims of the forced or compulsory labour convention and find it sad that 80 years after its adoption, its main objective, the total elimination of forced labour, has not been fulfilled. i therefore think that this issue needs to be addressed more intensively, in particular by standing up for the victims of forced labour, by helping these victims and their access to justice and adequate compensation.
in writing. ‒ i support the proposal to subject 4-methylamphetamine to control measures across the union. the substance is distributed as a dangerous drug, with 21 deaths reported in four member states between 2010 and 2012 in which 4-methylamphetamine was found in post-mortem samples. i welcome the fact that the aim of this proposal is to call on member states to subject the manufacture, sale and supply of 4-methylamphetamine to criminal sanctions as provided for in their legislation. moreover, subjecting the substance to control within the union could help to prevent problems in cross-border law enforcement and judicial cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as i welcome the council's decision to bring new psychoactive substances (in this case 4-methylamphetamine) that affect the central nervous system under control measures in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from the vote on the motion. i fully recognize the risks associated with the free sale of this substance. however, as practice has shown, restrictive drug policies have more negative than positive consequences, and the prohibition of dangerous drugs leads to the development of new, even less safe and untested drugs, which bring with them new and unknown risks.
in writing. ‒ i welcomed the report on the inclusion of 4-methylamphetamine, as well as three other new narcotic and psychotropic substances, under control measures in an accelerated procedure. unfortunately, legislation sometimes fails to keep up with human innovation in this dangerous field. it is very important that these substances cannot be sold under the guise of being legal, which can give many the impression that they are harmless, whereas according to reports from different member states they are very dangerous substances with dozens of deaths. and although we already regulate these substances in slovakia by national law, the importance of pan-european regulation and control is undeniable. i therefore supported all four reports.
in writing. ‒ the in the light of this proposal, i call on the council to subject the substance to more stringent control measures. the substance 5- ((2-aminopropyl) indole is a synthetic indole derivative substituted on the phenyl side of the indole ring system. it appears to be a stimulant that may also have hallucinogenic effects. the available information and data suggest that acute toxicity of 5- ((2-aminopropyl) indole may cause adverse effects in humans such as tachycardia and body overheating, and may also cause pupil dilation (mydriasis), agitation and tremor. there are no published studies assessing its acute and chronic toxicity, effects on mental health, behaviour or potential addictiveness, as only limited information and data are available. however, the available evidence and information provides sufficient grounds for subjecting 5-[2-aminopropyl]indole to control measures across the union. due to the health risks it poses, as evidenced by its presence in several reported cases of death, and the fact that it has no medical value or use, 5-[2-aminopropyl]indole should be subject to control measures throughout the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because 5- (((2-aminopropyl) indole is a psychotic substance with stimulant or depressant effects similar to drugs and therefore needs to be controlled in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i support the proposal to subject the substances in question to more precise control measures. these are substances that are not established or recognised as medicinal and therapeutic. 25i-nbome is a potent synthetic derivative of 2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenethylamine (2c-i), a classic serotonergic hallucinogen, which has been subject to risk assessment and control measures and has been subject to criminal sanctions at union level since 2003 by council decision. ah-7921 is a structurally atypical synthetic opioid analgesic. mdpv is a circularly substituted synthetic derivative of cathinone, a chemical relative of pyrovalerone, both of which are controlled under the 1971 united nations convention on psychotropic substances. metoxetamine is an arylcyclohexylamine substance that is chemically similar to ketamine and the internationally controlled substance phencyclidine (pcp). like ketamine and pcp, methoxetamine has dissociative properties. substances should be subject to control measures throughout the union due to the health risks they pose. if these psychoactive substances become available, the consequences for the health of individuals and the public could be significant.
in writing. ‒ the substances listed in the title of the resolution may cause, for example, hallucinations, changes in thinking, behaviour, consciousness or mood. for this reason, i agree with their control within the eu.
in writing. ‒ i agree to the subjecting of the substance in question to control measures. in both cases, it is a widely used substance sold as a drug mainly in europe and the usa. the new psychoactive substance 4,4'-dmar appears to have psychostimulating properties. 4,4'-dmar is structurally related to two substances listed in the 1971 united nations convention on psychotropic substances (4-methylaminorex and aminorex). 4,4'-dmar has been available on the drug market in the european union since at least december 2012. the new psychoactive substance mt-45 is a synthetic opiate with a unique structure that was investigated for its analgesic properties in the 1970s. mt-45 has been available on the drug market in the european union since october 2013. i am firmly convinced that there are grounds for subjecting 4,4'-dmar and mt-45 to strict control measures throughout the union. the main one is that the toxicity of these substances is so high that they can seriously damage the health of individuals and even lead to death. the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction records reports of deaths caused by the use of these dangerous substances. in addition, the risks are exacerbated by the fact that in some reported cases these substances have been used by some users without their knowledge, often in combination with other psychoactive substances.
in writing. ‒ these new psychotic substances have no medically recognised benefit. on the contrary, they cause a variety of changes in thinking, behaviour or hallucinations, which is why they need to be controlled in the eu as a whole, not just in some member states.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposes to provide financial support from the european union solidarity fund, under the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013, for the disaster in bulgaria in early 2015 and for two floods in greece in early 2015. a significant part of bulgaria was affected by heavy rain, snow, floods and landslides in late and early january 2015. these events have caused significant damage to public infrastructure, businesses, private property, agriculture and forestry. the bulgarian authorities estimate the total direct damage caused by the disaster at eur 243,305 million. in greece, severe flooding in early february 2015 caused damage to basic infrastructure, public buildings, residential buildings, businesses and greek agriculture. the total direct damage caused by the floods is estimated by the greek authorities at eur 395,878 million. the european union is providing a total of eur 16 274 765 to bulgaria and greece for damage mitigation. since both applications meet the criteria of the european union solidarity fund and since the damage was not limited to public infrastructure (water supply, sewage, electricity) but affected the foundations of the regions concerned, including private property, businesses, agricultural land and forests, i supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the proposal of the european commission to provide financial assistance in connection with the disaster in bulgaria and greece. in late january and early february 2015, a large part of bulgaria was affected by heavy rain, snowfall, flooding and landslides, with the south-eastern part of the country being the most severely affected. these events caused significant damage to public infrastructure such as dams, communication networks and roads, as well as businesses, private dwellings and caused damage to the agriculture and forestry sectors. the commission has also received information from the greek authorities, which has provided it with a copy of the decision of the european parliament and of the council of 16 february 2015 on the application of the union state aid rules to compensation granted for the provision of services of general economic interest (oj l 176, 27.6.2015, p. 1). water and sewerage infrastructure in 17 municipalities was damaged. during the same period, several floods also affected large parts of central and western greece, causing even greater damage, leading to power cuts, the isolation of several mountain settlements and the destruction of some greek cultural monuments. since the applications of both countries meet the criteria of the european union solidarity fund and these natural disasters have had a serious impact on the economies and regions of both countries, i see no reason why the esf assistance in question should be refused to these countries.
in writing. ‒ the south-eastern part of bulgaria was hit by heavy rain, snowfall, flooding and landslides in early 2015, causing severe damage to infrastructure, public and private property, and particularly affecting agriculture and forestry. the estimated damage is almost eur 250 million. the same weather patterns caused damage in greece, where some cultural monuments were also destroyed. however, the transport sector has been the most affected. the emergency measures required eur 308,445 million. the affected regions in bulgaria and greece fall within the category of less developed regions under the european structural and investment funds. both countries have fulfilled the conditions for receiving assistance from the eu solidarity fund, and therefore, under the rules of that fund, a total amount of eur 16 274 765 is granted to greece and bulgaria for the purpose of providing assistance to remedy the damage.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the draft decision on the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund and the allocation of assistance to bulgaria and greece in relation to the natural disasters that affected them in 2015. it is the fulfillment of the purpose of the european union solidarity fund, which was set up to help the affected regions within europe in the event of major natural disasters. i support this proposal as a way for the union to express solidarity with the people of its member states who have been affected by the disaster.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund was created precisely to provide adequate assistance in the event of disasters such as the floods in the evros region of greece earlier this year or the heavy winter rains, snow and landslides in bulgaria. the objective of the fund is to enable the union to respond to such disasters in a rapid, flexible and effective manner. we have to improve on all three areas of fund mobilization, so i welcome this report. the european union is founded on solidarity, which is one of its most important core values and in which the member states must act. as we all know, the quick give twice. the events call for rapid action, and we must mobilise the solidarity fund with immediate effect to help member states affected by the disaster as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ solidarity is one of the values on which the european union is founded. the applications from bulgaria and greece for eu solidarity fund assistance following heavy rainfall, snowfall, flooding and landslides in bulgaria and flooding in the evros river basin and in central and western greece were considered eligible. that is why i voted to mobilise the solidarity fund in the event of the disasters in question.
in writing. ‒ bulgaria and greece were hit by major natural disasters in early 2015. in south-eastern bulgaria, floods and landslides affected large areas, damaging public infrastructure, with more than 300 buildings inundated in the city of burgas alone. floods also affected central and western greece and the evros river area, where they caused damage to public buildings as well as agriculture, as crop warehouses were flooded. the eu solidarity fund is for such unforeseen events, and i therefore support its use to help the citizens of bulgaria and greece to alleviate the impact of these disasters. local authorities will need funds for basic emergency operations to rebuild transport network, sewerage, safety and prevention infrastructure. the commission proposes to grant aid of eur 16 million, which is commensurate with the scale of these disasters.
in writing. solidarity in the european union is shown in difficult situations caused by natural disasters. i therefore support the use of the fund for such activities.
in writing. ‒ in view of the damage caused by natural disasters in bulgaria and greece, i supported the proposal to mobilise the solidarity fund.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on helping two member states, bulgaria and greece, to cope with the consequences of the natural disasters that struck them earlier this year. both countries have been hit by heavy downpours, floods and landslides that have caused extensive damage to public and private property. i believe that there is a need to help those countries which have been placed in an unenviable situation as a result of such unforeseeable events and therefore i welcomed the opportunity to support the report on the financial contribution from the european union solidarity fund to those countries. the fund is an expression of the co-operation between member states as one of the important values of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's report calls for the eu's protection of geographical indications to be extended to non-agricultural products. on the basis of the commission green paper on the subject and the consultation of stakeholders, parliament called on the european commission to prepare a legislative proposal to extend eu protection to non-agricultural products. under the current system, member states apply different rules, which has a negative impact on the union's internal market. extending protection to non-agricultural products can help to better protect local and regional products and, at the same time, the well-being of those living there. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new rules on the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful organisms. european protection will thus be ensured for high-quality european products made by unique and traditional processes. i hope that the products of the central european regions, including the hungarian regions, will also benefit to a considerable extent from european protection. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ geographical indications play a key role in the trade policy of the european union. if the european union were to adopt legislation on non-agricultural geographical indications, the positive economic effects of protecting the specific character and quality of these products could be exploited, consumer awareness could be improved, and innovation in traditional production processes and the sustainability of jobs created in underdeveloped areas could be promoted. industrial and craft products that are linked to their place of origin or to a specific area are of key importance for the economy and society in many european regions by supporting activities that cannot be relocated and are directly linked to the local way of life, especially in rural areas. legislation on non-agricultural geographical indications could effectively help to combat counterfeiting, fraudulent use of geographical indications and other unfair practices that are misleading to the final consumer and harmful in particular to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises.
in writing. ‒ the geographical indications have benefits for products and economic potential, which is multiplied by the provision of legislative protection. eu legislation allows agricultural products of a specific geographical origin, which have certain characteristics or are produced by traditional methods, to be granted uniform protection of geographical indications throughout europe. non-agricultural producers who chose to protect their geographical indication throughout the eu had to obtain separate protection in each member state. in line with the objectives of the internal market, the european commission has identified this problem and has analysed the existing legal framework for the protection of geographical indications of non-agricultural products in the member states. the analysis has shown that the existing legal instruments available to producers of non-agricultural products at national and european level are insufficient. with the proposal we are opening the way to a substantive and legislative solution for the protection of geographical indications also for non-agricultural products.
in writing. ‒ having seen the provenance of place of origin labelling in food, i welcome the report on the possible extension of the protection of european union geographical indications to non-agricultural products. as the eu is particularly rich in such authentic products, which are based on local know-how and traditional local production methods often rooted in the cultural, social and historical heritage of the geographical location, this will also contribute to their preservation for the future. geographical indications of a product also have the potential to contribute to highlighting the relationship between human activity, culture, landscape and resources. in the case of slovakia, this can be modranska mayolica, levic gold onyx, solnobanska laipka or piestany mud. i believe that extending the protection of european union geographical indications will also be a service to the consumer, as it is a way of increasing his confidence in products bearing the eu trade mark. however, i join the call for the regulator to take into account geographical indications already existing in the member states in order to avoid unnecessary red tape in registering them at european level.
in writing. ‒ europe is not limited to agricultural products, when it comes to special, traditional goods. one of the foundations of european diversity is the existence of different traditional, regional industries that contribute to our identity. i therefore welcome this report, which aims to extend the protection of geographical indications in the eu to non-agricultural products. the eu's unique products and their quality must be protected as effectively as possible, and they are in need of protection primarily outside the eu. this will help consumers avoid many counterfeits and fraud, and will also help producers of products benefit from the quality certificate of the european geographical indication. i hope that the european commission will come forward with a concrete legislative proposal on this matter as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ in slovakia, craft products have a long tradition. the famous are the sticky lace from the spanish valley or the saltbanska lace from prešov. we must protect their uniqueness, as well as our other products, through legal protection. i therefore voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the possible extension of the protection of european union geographical indications to non-agricultural products, which provides an opportunity to protect this heritage more effectively.
in writing. ‒ i agree that the non-agricultural products sector can be considered a very important element of the cultural heritage of the eu member states, but its serious shortcoming is that it has no uniform system for the protection of geographical indications. this lack also often leads to falsification and fraudulent use of geographical indications and unfair practices, which are harmful to the final consumer and particularly harmful to micro-enterprises and smes. what concerns me much more is the gradual disappearance of traditional skills and crafts, which were rooted in the cultural, social and historical heritage of many rural areas. i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe that by extending geographical indications to non-agricultural products we can stop the decline of traditional production, the depopulation and destruction of rural areas and the outflow of young people leaving these areas. i think that extending the protection of geographical indications will be a sufficient incentive to improve access to the common market and markets outside the eu. i expect that we will use interregional and transnational cooperation and encourage the development of rural areas based on good practice to revive the traditional craft sector.
in writing. the consumer must be sure that the product he has bought meets the required parameters. the labelling of foodstuffs by place of origin has proven itself and its extension to other products would only enhance the prestige of european products and help local producers.
in writing. - i did not support the motion. if someone wants to protect a particular manufacturing process or technology, he can use a patent or trademark to do so. however, the possibility to manufacture the product in question should not be limited to a specific geographical location. whether someone buys a product that does not come from his or her region of origin should be entirely a matter for the customer.
in writing. ‒ protecting our agricultural heritage with geographical indications was necessary. extending this possibility to non-agricultural products is a further step in the preservation of our rural heritage. this will not only help to recognise the know-how in this field but also to protect these quality products (in particular against counterfeiting). finally, it will have positive economic effects for the regions which live off these products.
in writing. ‒ traditional products are part of our cultural identity, our cultural heritage, and they highlight the beauty and traditions of the different regions of the european union. these products are often produced in rural areas and in regions with low employment opportunities. they are produced by family businesses or small and medium-sized enterprises, where appropriate, on the basis of traditional know-how and can play an important role in the field of job creation. the lack of protection of traditional products, due to the absence of a uniform legal framework at european level, has therefore led in particular to the damage to the reputation of traditional products through imitation, to a decline in the confidence of consumers who perceive traditional products as a guarantee of quality, and ultimately to the threat to traditional crafts and the jobs they provide. as the slovak republic also has many irreplaceable traditional non-agricultural products (which have been protected at european level since 1992), i supported this report.
in writing. ‒ greece has suffered significantly as a result of the financial crisis. it is important that the lack of liquidity and of public funds in greece does not hamper investments in programmes supported by the european regional development fund, the european social fund and the cohesion fund, and the european maritime and fisheries fund. the european commission has therefore proposed to amend the common provisions regulation, inter alia, to provide greece with additional pre-financing for the 2014-2020 period for the cohesion policy operational programmes under the investment for growth and jobs goal. in view of the urgency of the assistance needed, parliament decided to adopt a simplified procedure without amendments. this procedure should allow for the entry into force of this regulation as soon as possible. that is why i voted for the report.
in writing. ‒ the financial and economic crisis has affected all the member states of the european union, but greece has been particularly hard hit. the country faces a lack of liquidity and public funds available for public investments needed to support a sustainable recovery. however, the lack of liquidity and public finances must not prevent investments under programmes supported by the european regional development fund, the european social fund, the cohesion fund and the european maritime and fisheries fund, as if these investments were to stop, the country would be in existential difficulties. i therefore support the european commission's proposals to provide additional pre-financing for the 2014-2020 cohesion policy operational programmes under the investment for growth and jobs goal. the amount of the additional initial advance payments must be used effectively and reach the beneficiaries of the esf, the cohesion fund and the emff as quickly as possible so that they can make the planned investments and receive the reimbursement immediately after the submission of payment applications.
in writing. ‒ the the proposed regulation addresses the liquidity problems and the lack of public investment to support growth and employment in greece, given its current emergency situation. the commission notes that the greek authorities have not provided any evidence that the aid is compatible with the internal market. the measures will allow the european regional development fund, the european social fund, the cohesion fund and the european maritime and fisheries fund to be made available to beneficiaries as soon as possible. within each programme, it will be possible to draw up advance payments in the form of additional pre-financing of the 2014-2020 cohesion policy operational programmes under the investment for growth and jobs goal and programmes financed by the european maritime and fisheries fund in greece. at the same time, we will allow the ceiling for the cumulative sum of pre-financing and interim payments to reach 100% and the co-financing rate for the 2007-2013 operational programmes for the convergence and regional competitiveness and employment objectives in greece to be increased to 100%.
in writing. ‒ in voting on the european parliament resolution on the common provisions on the european structural and investment funds in the case of special measures for greece, i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled. the aim of the resolution is to allow for an increase in the initial advance payments for greece's cohesion policy programmes as part of the investment for growth and jobs goal for the period 2014-2020. the proposal also provided for increasing the maximum co-financing rate for the operational programmes for the period 2007-13 under the convergence and regional competitiveness and employment objectives to 100%. the commission notes that the greek authorities have not provided any evidence that the aid is compatible with the internal market. the adjustment should also help to address the significant liquidity shortage in the greek economy and to encourage investment, which will help to initiate a greater number of projects.
in writing. ‒ i supported the ep's draft legislative resolution which takes into account the consequences of the financial crisis that hit greece and the exceptional situation in greece, which needs to be addressed by specific measures. the country is currently facing a shortage of liquidity and public funds available for the public finances needed for investments under programmes supported by the european regional development fund, the european social fund, the cohesion fund and the european maritime and fisheries fund. the commission has therefore proposed to amend the common provisions regulation to ensure additional pre-financing of the 2014-2020 cohesion policy operational programmes and to allow the ceiling for the cumulative sum of pre-financing and interim payments to reach 100% and the co-financing rate of the 2007-2013 operational programmes for the convergence and regional competitiveness and employment objectives in greece to be increased to 100%.
in writing. greece must follow the rules and the european union must monitor not only compliance but also the use of european money.
in writing. - i did not support the motion. i do not agree that greece should have special advantages in drawing on the european funds. not only is this unfair to other eu countries, but it also directly motivates greece to behave more irresponsibly. for example, if greece has not been able to spend the allocated euro funds even at current co-financing levels, increasing the co-financing rate to 100% is likely to lead to even lower efficiency of the money-in-minutes and to even greater spending for spending purposes alone. moreover, the euro funds are not helping greece (or any other country) but distorting the economy, teaching dependence on foreign money and discouraging independence and productivity.
in writing. ‒ in western europe, car sales have fallen dramatically and hit a 20-year negative record, with the lowest number of cars sold in europe since 1997. these events are directly linked to the global financial and economic crisis. the crisis has particularly affected the manufacturers of medium-priced, small and medium-sized vehicles, including adam opel ag, whereas the sales of low-priced, premium and luxury vehicles have not been affected to such an extent by the crisis. germany has submitted an application for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund in respect of redundancies at adam opel ag and at a supplier, amounting to 2881 redundancies. as the application complies with the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation, i supported germany's mobilisation of the fund, which is intended to provide support for workers who have been affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade or made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis and to support their reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ the having regard to the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the european commission on budgetary discipline, and having regard to the council regulation and the regulation of the european parliament and of the council, i support the allocation of a financial contribution of eur 6 958 623 to germany, namely adam opel ag, which had to lay off 2 881 workers. adam opel ag, which is owned by general motors, was placed at a disadvantage by general motors because it allowed it to sell only within europe, thereby excluding it from emerging markets on other continents. car sales in western europe plummeted to their lowest level in 20 years.
in writing. ‒ germany applied for a financial contribution from the egf in february 2015 following redundancies at adam opel ag and a supply company in germany. the redundancies were caused by a decline in production in the automotive industry as a result of the global economic and financial crisis. the personalised services will affect 2 692 of the 2 881 workers made redundant. for the support and implementation of the measures proposed in the application submitted by germany, the egf shall be mobilised to provide a financial contribution of eur 6 958 623.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was established for the period 2014-2020 to provide support to countries whose labour markets have been affected by the global economic and financial crisis. following examination of the application egf/2015/002de/adam opel, the commission has concluded that the conditions for the submission and acceptance of the application have been fulfilled by the federal republic of germany. the application for the contribution was approved and germany is entitled to receive a financial contribution to support workers made redundant due to globalisation, following the closure of the company's production plant. i agree with the decision to mobilise the fund to provide staff services and measures for workers to integrate into the labour market. i appreciate the commission's expedited procedure for releasing the fund.
in writing. ‒ in the case of the european parliament resolution on the application of the european globalisation adjustment fund to a request from the german company adam opel ag, i voted against the resolution in line with the position of the committee of the regions. i believe it is important to design policies that promote employment growth and job creation. however, i also share the view of the cor and therefore do not consider the european globalisation adjustment fund to be the right and adequate instrument for this purpose.
in writing. ‒ the the global financial and economic crisis also affected the automotive sector, which saw a dramatic fall in car sales in europe. adam opel ag had to lay off 2 881 employees and terminate the contract with one of its suppliers because of the surplus. the extensive structural changes caused by world trade can also be mitigated by using the globalisation adjustment fund. i therefore support the release of these funds for the reintegration of workers made redundant as a result of the closure of the bochum production plant. almost eur 7 million of this aid is expected to provide workers with vocational guidance, vocational training or a business start-up advisory service to help them find employment again. however, training funding cannot replace the commitment of the member state or the former employer. it is therefore essential that the commission ensures that the funds are used for personalised and in-depth measures that the company would not be able to implement without the support of the fund.
in writing. i support the restructuring of companies and the training of workers and young people in the affected region. i am also aware of the importance of sound economic policy to prevent such situations.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree to the provision of eur 6.9 million for 2 692 redundant workers who are victims of globalisation. the reallocation of money from productive workers and firms to non-productive workers and firms is undermining the eu's competitiveness and thus aggravating the very problems the globalisation fund is trying to tackle. making the eu's economy more competitive with the rest of the world requires the exact opposite reducing the tax and regulatory burden and ending harmful policies that negatively impact the eu's economy, often achieving the opposite of the intended results, such as the eu's absurdly strict climate goals.
in writing. ‒ passenger car production fell by 14.6% in the eu-27 between 2007 and 2012, and china more than doubled its market share in passenger car production over the same period. these developments are directly linked to the major structural changes in the structure of world trade brought about by globalisation. the belgian automotive industry suffered a decrease in production of 15,58% while global production increased by 18,9%. in belgium, ford genk made 5111 redundancies and therefore applied for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund. in the province of limburg, ford genk was the largest employer. the redundancies cause significant damage to the economy of limburg, as they result in the loss of more than 8000 jobs in total, the majority of the redundancies affecting eu citizens aged between 30 and 54. as the application complies with the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation, i supported belgium's mobilisation of the fund, which is intended to provide support for workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade or made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis and to support their reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ the having regard to the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the european commission on budgetary discipline, and having regard to the council regulation and the regulation of the european parliament and of the council, i support the allocation of a financial contribution of eur 6 268 564 to belgium, specifically to ford genk, which had to lay off 8 000 workers. passenger car production in the eu-27 decreased by 14,6% between 2007 and 2012 and china's market share of passenger car production more than doubled over the same period. the economy of the province of limburg is seriously affected by the redundancies.
in writing. ‒ belgium has requested a financial contribution from the egf following the redundancies of 5 111 workers, of which 3 701 were made redundant by ford genk and the rest by supply companies and downstream manufacturers in the automotive sector. european car production decreased by 14,6% between 2007 and 2012, while the volume of production in the chinese car sector doubled in the same period. the measures for reintegration into the labour market are to affect 4 500 redundant workers. belgium has fulfilled the conditions for the granting of the egf and is therefore granted a financial contribution of eur 6 268 564 from the egf out of a total cost of eur 10 447 607.
in writing. ‒ having examined the application egf/2015/003be/ford genk the commission has decided that the conditions laid down for the submission and acceptance of the application have been met by belgium. the application for the contribution was approved and belgium is entitled to receive a financial contribution to support workers made redundant as a result of globalisation and significant changes in the structure of world trade. production in the belgian automotive industry decreased by 15,58%, linked to the closure of the genk plant and redundancies at other ford production sites. i agree with the decision to mobilise the fund to provide staff services and measures for workers to integrate into the labour market. i join the call on the commission to carry out a study of the asian and south american markets in order to make european producers more competitive and to gain a stronger presence in these thriving markets.
in writing. ‒ in the case of the european parliament resolution on the application of the european globalisation adjustment fund to a request from the belgian company ford genk, i voted against this resolution in line with the ecr position. i believe it is important to design policies that help to increase employment and create jobs. however, i also share the ecr's view and therefore do not consider the egf to be the right and adequate instrument for this purpose.
in writing. ‒ ford genk was the largest employer in the limburg region of belgium. more than 5 000 people lost their jobs here as a result of the closure of the production plant and 11 suppliers were also affected by the bankruptcy. this situation is related to the overall decrease in passenger car production in europe, which has recently been reduced by 14%. in addition, vehicle production in china has almost doubled. i welcome the fact that the belgian government has already started to provide fast-track assistance to affected employees through personalised services. i also support the fact that the financial contribution provided by the eu will be earmarked for individual assistance in finding a new job, for training and retraining and, to a lesser extent, for allowances and incentives. as global consumption is shifting geographically outside europe and the majority of redundancies are made by men of working age, it will be necessary to provide redundant workers with skills to enable them to return to the workforce as soon as possible.
in writing. i support the restructuring of companies, but on the other hand i am of the opinion that there are more conceptual solutions than subsidies.
in writing. ‒ in recent years, the international air transport market has been subject to serious economic fragmentation, in particular the decline in the union's market share and the increase in the number of passengers carried by airlines from the gulf countries and turkey to the detriment of european companies such as alitalia. italy has submitted an application for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund following the redundancies in the alitalia group of 1249 workers. as the application complies with the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation, i supported italy's mobilisation of the fund, which was established to provide support for workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns or made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis and to support their reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ the having regard to the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the european commission on budgetary discipline, and in the light of the council regulation and the regulation of the european parliament and of the council, i support the allocation of a financial contribution of eur 1 414 848 to italy, specifically to gruppo alitalia, which had to lay off 1 249 workers. the international air transport market has been seriously affected by economic disturbances, in particular by the rapid decline in the union's market share and the huge increase in the number of passengers carried by carriers from the persian gulf and turkey to the detriment of european companies such as alitalia.
in writing. ‒ in august 2015, italy requested support from the egf for the reintegration into the labour market of redundant staff in the alitalia group, operating in the economic sector classified under nace rev. 2 division 51 (air transport). the commission notes that the aid is granted to airlines that are not subject to the rules on state aid and that the aid is not granted to airlines that are subject to the rules on state aid. personalised services consist of skills recruitment and assessment, support for active job search, training, reimbursement of mobility costs and benefits provided for the employment of workers over 50 years of age. as italy has fulfilled the conditions for the egf, there is no reason why the amount of eur 1 414 848 should not be mobilised.
in writing. ‒ the commission has examined the application egf/2015/00it/alitalia and has decided that the conditions for the submission and acceptance of the application have been met by italy and the application for a contribution has therefore been approved. italy is entitled to receive a financial contribution to support redundant workers due to a decrease in numbers. however, the problem is the economic disruption in the international air transport market, with the increase in passengers carried by the gulf and turkish airlines at the expense of european air transport. i agree with the decision to mobilise the fund to provide staff services and measures for workers to integrate into the labour market and to ensure benefits and better recruitment conditions, in particular for workers over 50.
in writing. ‒ in the case of the european parliament resolution on the application of the european globalisation adjustment fund to the application of the italian company gruppo alitalia, i voted against this resolution in line with the ecr position. i believe it is important to design policies that promote employment growth and job creation. however, i also share the ecr's view and therefore do not consider the egf to be the right and adequate instrument for this purpose.
in writing. ‒ the italian government requested a financial contribution from the globalisation adjustment fund in view of the redundancies that had been forced to be reported by grouppo alitalia. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was signed on 30 june 2014 and entered into force on 1 january 2014. unfortunately, only 184 employees were included in the requalification process, i.e. less than 15% of all eligible beneficiaries. however, since most of the redundancies occurred in the lazio region, which is one of the less developed regions of italy, i support measures for reintegration. of the financial contribution of almost eur 1,5 million, staff should be provided with personalised services related to recruitment and skills assessment to support them in their active job search or reimbursed for their mobility costs. the benefits that should be granted to employees over 50 years old should also be welcomed.
in writing. i support the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in this case as well. it is time for the egf to be activated also for mass redundancies in slovak companies and for the slovak government to respond to my repeated calls.
in writing. ‒ the european union maintains a high standard of protection of human rights and freedoms and seeks to set an example for the rest of the world and to promote their observance and respect in third countries. the case of the italian company hacking team, which sells tools that allow governments and other users to monitor and record every digital movement of an individual, including countries that the eu has criticized for their human rights record, including azerbaijan, bahrain, egypt, morocco and uzbekistan, is therefore of concern. the european commission must react promptly, as the market in which the firm in question operates is currently very little controlled and largely unregulated, and send a clear signal to its partners that violations and non-compliance with fundamental human rights and freedoms will not be tolerated in the european union. the european commission must find a way to stop the sale of products that enable such infringements by effective policies. in this context, the european commission should give serious thought to the budget of the european network and information security agency, which has long suffered from significant financial under-spending.
in writing. ‒ eu support and cooperation with local authorities, which are crucial to achieving development goals in developing countries, helps not only to reduce poverty but also to promote democratic principles and transparency in public administration and thus to contribute more strongly to respect for human rights. the poor economic and social situation of developing countries also increases political instability, resulting in local wars. all of this ultimately affects the current refugee crisis, where it is difficult to separate political and economic refugees. the eu must use diplomacy and political dialogue as the main means of addressing the problems in developing countries, and alongside effective, targeted and controlled financial support, help to build a democratic and economically strong society that respects human rights.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the report on the role of local authorities in developing countries in development cooperation. experience has shown that centrally managed and 'bottom-up' development policies and programmes are not able to provide solutions to the problems of sustainable development and poverty reduction, and aid does not reach those for whom it is intended effectively. not only does the eu not see concrete positive outcomes that have a real impact on the lives of local people, but it also suffers the negative consequences, currently in the form of a migration crisis, as people from developing countries are driven from their homes by the poor situation. i therefore consider it important that part of european budgetary aid be earmarked directly for the financing of local authorities. this is particularly true of countries where there are serious human rights violations. in such cases, the eu may suspend cooperation with central governments and continue to provide assistance through local authorities and civil society organisations.
in writing. ‒ the level of commitment of local authorities to achieving the objectives set is always a key issue in development cooperation. the eu's good intentions to help local communities in their daily democratic struggles or in the fight against poverty are frustrated when most of the funds end up in the pockets of the corrupt or when the other side is indifferent and will not cross two straw. in this respect, local authorities have a key role to play in this matter, and it often only makes sense to start any kind of cooperation if the conditions are right for direct, open communication with local authorities and there is the political will to achieve results. otherwise, even if we work hard, our development aid will be money thrown out the window. i therefore welcome the report which highlights the importance of this issue. the next step for us is to really take a development policy that has concrete results in the light of all this. otherwise, the eu will be seen as a plain cow by corrupt governments in third countries. our own citizens have a legitimate demand to see results for the euros they invest.
in writing. ‒ the european union is the largest donor of global development aid. with a significant amount of funding being invested in development cooperation, unfortunately a large part of this does not go directly to the primary beneficiaries the specific people. this unflattering phenomenon is partly due to the low level of involvement of local authorities in the system of this cooperation. i therefore voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the role of local authorities in developing countries in development cooperation, which stresses the need to pay particular attention to local authorities in the planning and implementation of development and financial aid flows.
in writing. ‒ the world population is projected to grow from approximately 7 billion people to 9.3 billion people in 2050, with the bulk of this increase expected to occur in developing countries in urban areas. i believe that if we are to successfully cope with this challenge, which can seriously threaten sustainability in developing countries, the eu and its member states will have to look for ways of working together better and more coordinatedly. i supported the resolution because i think it is good news, not only because it highlights the shortcomings of local authorities in developing countries, but also because it comes with concrete measures and proposals in the context of development cooperation. i expect that the gradual strengthening of the role of local authorities in developing countries will become an important element that will create better conditions for the transfer of competences from the central state level to local and regional institutions. i also believe that local authorities in developing countries with real powers will ensure that governance is even more effective after 2015 and create a better future for their people. however, i am convinced that without financial and technical assistance and capacity building, it will be difficult to expect more significant achievements from local authorities.
in writing. - i abstained from the vote. the main reason for the low effectiveness of development aid is not that it is insufficiently targeted at local authorities, but that the aid itself has inappropriate objectives. developing countries must first become more productive and more self-sufficient, and financial support for selected enterprises leads to the exact opposite. like the european funds, this aid only increases the dependence of the beneficiaries and distorts the market environment, making it more difficult for the entrepreneurs who have not received financial support to operate.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text because good local governance is essential to ensure a vibrant democracy. as key players, local authorities are faced with an increasing number of tasks, while also accompanying the changes in our societies, particularly in the field of sustainable development. that is why i support this report and the strengthening of local authority, which, at its scale, is best placed to meet the challenges ahead.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on local authorities as key to achieving the european union's development objectives. this report highlights the great importance of local authorities for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, job creation and sustainable economic growth. i support the idea of decentralisation and the importance of local authorities, which have better and more accurate information about regions and local conditions and can therefore respond more quickly and appropriately to specific problems. the idea of the economic benefits for smes that could be enhanced by decentralisation, and by making a significant contribution to sustainable development as job providers, which i have long supported, also led me to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. the volkswagen scandal that erupted a few weeks ago shocked european public opinion. for years, one of the most popular car brands in the world has been falsifying emissions data to protect its market leadership. the case is exemplary and it is to be hoped that other manufacturers have not acted in a similar way to comply with strict environmental standards. we must learn from what has happened, it is not enough to set strict emission limits, we need proper controls, real testing. many are predicting the end of diesel engines, which vary from one member state to another but make up a significant part of the european car fleet. i do not think that the alarm should be raised immediately, europe is at the forefront of technological development of diesel engines and it should not be forgotten that many european households can use their own cars thanks to cars running on cheaper diesel fuel. those involved in the volkswagen fraud cannot escape accountability, nor can consumer confidence be restored without it. the competitiveness of european car manufacturing and industry needs to be strengthened by union action.
in writing. in september 2013, i said this on the ground in the ep about the situation in syria: the current situation in syria must concern every european. last year (2012) the eu was awarded the nobel peace prize. today we have the opportunity to prove ourselves worthy of this award. violence is a daily occurrence in syria. it's a great tragedy that has no peaceful solution yet. in every war, women and children suffer the most. even among the nearly two million refugees, the largest number are women and children. they're desperate, they're waiting for international help, but i don't think it should be military aid. i am convinced that all the possibilities for a peaceful solution to the situation in syria have not yet been exhausted. the use of chemical weapons, by any of the parties to the conflict, must be severely criticised and punished. eu representatives must make greater efforts in international negotiations to force the warring parties to negotiate and gradually end the fighting. i believe the way forward is through efforts to limit the supply of weapons to each of the warring parties in syria. after two years, i regret to say that we have done very little to bring peace and stability to syria, and thousands of migrants from that country prove it to us every day.
in writing. the more time passes, the more we see that the war in syria is getting worse and that it brings with it its share of violence and despair. unfortunately, between the united states, russia, iran and other countries in the region, the european union is struggling to make its voice heard. however, it cannot remain in the background and must play an active part in the search for a solution. turkey, jordan and lebanon are being hit hard by the arrival of thousands of migrants and their destabilisation would create regional disorder with consequences even greater than those we are currently experiencing. that is why we must give these countries massive help so that they can meet the challenge they face. by providing the necessary assistance, we will enable all those who have fled the war in syria to live in dignity, while giving them hope that one day they can return home. it is therefore by combining a strong diplomatic initiative with massive aid to syria's neighbours that we will be able to stem the flow of refugees, stabilise the situation and give these people hope of return.
in writing. ‒ tunisia is the only country to have survived the so-called arab spring. if the european union cares about tunisia's future, it must set out concrete economic and investment commitments and support tunisia's economy and its transition to democracy, because this process is very complex and the country will need stable trading partners and major investments in regions and infrastructure if it is to implement the necessary reforms. the european union must also consider increasing support in areas such as university education, general education, training and youth through programmes such as erasmus+.
in writing. ‒ the european neighbourhood policy (enp) aims to support the reform and modernisation of countries in the eu's neighbourhood, which also allows for the opening of certain programmes for these countries. in 2013, tunisia, for which the eu is the largest trading partner, expressed its interest in participating in union programmes. the protocol constitutes a framework for the general principles of participation of tunisia which apply to all the epa partner countries.
in writing. ‒ i agree to the conclusion of the protocol and thus to support this country, as its economic situation has deteriorated in recent years. it is a country where the democratic processes that have been initiated over the last three years could serve as a model for other countries in north africa and the middle east.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal as i support the initiative to remove administrative barriers and liberalise international trade. the liberalisation of international trade is one of the ways in which the european union can really and sustainably help the economy.
in writing. ‒ the regulations introducing the european small claims procedure and the european order for payment procedure are designed to simplify and make cheaper crossborder judicial proceedings within the european union. i voted in favour of the report to improve the provisions. these provisions are mainly in favour of consumers and small and medium-sized enterprises, facilitating the enforcement of claims before the courts. experience so far has shown that the scheme has been well received and its application has reduced the duration of procedures by an average of 40%. the current amendment, which takes account of the practice of recent years, aims to make the rules of the regulation more relevant to the needs of the working population, that is, the citizens of the union. for example, the modernisation of the rules on electronic service and the modification of the threshold will provide relief.
in writing. ‒ the rate of use of tribunals for low-value litigation remains very low in some member states and more needs to be done in terms of legal certainty, language barriers and transparency of proceedings. i therefore welcome the european commission's proposal to raise the limit for the use of the european small claims procedure also for crossborder claims between eur 2000 and eur 10 000. this change will increase the percentage of disputes to which a significant reduction in costs and shorter duration of proceedings is applied.
in writing. ‒ the european simplified procedure will help consumers and smes in particular to recover their claims. the limit for proceedings in crossborder commercial and civil matters is increased from the current eur 2 000 to eur 10 000 in respect of a legal person and to eur 5 000 in respect of a natural person. postal and electronic delivery shall be equally eligible. by 3 years at the latest from the entry into force of the regulation, member states are obliged to introduce video and teleconferencing, while the right of the parties to be heard in person is preserved. this reduces the costs of the procedure and the length of the procedure. the minimum amount of court fees shall be eur 35, the maximum is set at a ceiling of 5% of the value of the claim. each member state is required to set a minimum income threshold below which the parties will not be required to pay court fees. member states must ensure administrative support and public awareness of this type of procedure.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the european parliament's report on the european small claims procedure, which aims to simplify and speed up crossborder small claims procedures, especially for smes. the commission has approved a regulation to raise the limit on the amount in dispute from eur 2 000 to eur 10 000, which means that the regulation will cover more than one undertaking, from the current 20% to 50% of all claims. i believe that the regulation on reducing the cost of travel, court fees and translation of documents and printing will also increase the interest in resolving disputes. i believe that the possible modernisation of court hearings can continue to improve the functioning of the european procedure in low value cases, but the priority remains to promote the use of information technology. i call on the commission to make every effort to provide the necessary information and on the member states to cooperate in the campaign. i am in favour of changes that will increase the number of disputes and that will help to increase savings for businesses and consumers.
in writing. - i voted for this motion. i support the text as it was approved in the trilogue. the simplified burden of proof and the standard form can make the recovery of so-called small claims much easier. i also welcome the commission's efforts to evaluate the implementation of the proposal after five years, which may reveal any reservations or shortcomings of this measure.
in writing. ‒ the european union is proud that the european small claims procedure has proved to be a useful tool over the past five years. i am pleased that the costs of crossborder litigation in low value cases have been reduced by up to 40% and that the duration of the crossborder litigation, which could have been up to two years and five months, has been reduced to an average of five months in low value cases. i think that despite these positive results, we still have reservations, especially in terms of expanding and strengthening its use. the commission confirms the existing reservations, having found on the basis of a survey that 45% of companies involved in a crossborder dispute do not go to court because the costs of litigation are disproportionate to the value of the dispute, and 27% of companies do not use the judicial route because the litigation takes too long. i therefore supported the resolution because i am convinced that the amendments proposed by the commission can improve the functioning of the european small claims procedure. i expect the adopted regulation to further simplify and speed up the procedure in cross-border cases, which will ultimately help consumers and smes to recover their claims.
in writing. this adjustment is another real help for smes. they will have easier access to their money and will save on travel expenses. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal as it facilitates the settlement of low value disputes, and i also welcome the fact that the proposal respects the principles of subsidiarity and deals only with cross-border disputes.
in writing. ‒ air pollution is not bound by borders, which is why it is important to limit emissions consciously within eu legal frameworks. the new proposal for a directive aims to fill a gap in eu law, as there are currently no specific provisions on emissions from medium combustion plants. emissions from such combustion plants have significant negative effects on health and the environment, not least economically. the parliament's report calls for the new rules not to impose excessive administrative burdens on smes. it is known that the majority of medium combustion plants are operated by smes. in view of all this, the legal framework should be improved and i therefore voted in favour of the parliament's report on the proposal for a directive on this subject.
in writing. ‒ the european commission's proposal for medium combustion plants can make a significant contribution to reducing so2, nox and dust pollution by setting limits for both existing and new plants. this is a simple registration system that will help member states meet their emission reduction commitments and avoid the debate about trade-offs between quality and increased use of biomass. small combustion plants and large combustion plants are already regulated by legislation in directives and it is therefore important to also regulate emissions of air pollutants from medium combustion plants, which are not yet regulated at european union level.
in writing. ‒ air pollution is a cross-border problem that needs to be regulated in order to preserve health and a healthy environment. if we don't address the problem, the costs of health care and environmental protection will rise, and they will burden the economies of all nations. the directive provides for measures in the form of limits on emissions of pollutants into the air for medium combustion plants (with a heat input of 1 to 50 mw) for which a regulatory legal framework has not yet been established. it applies to both new and existing installations. the aim is primarily to reduce emissions, and regulation should not represent an increase in administrative burden for eu member states and a disproportionate burden on national economies.
in writing. ‒ the the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the air from medium combustion plants is part of the new eu air quality action framework set out in the revised eu thematic strategy on air pollution and is consistent with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, inclusive and sustainable growth. in fact, there are around 150 000 medium-sized combustion plants in operation in the eu, with a wide range of uses, including electricity generation, domestic heating and cooling, and the provision of heat and steam for industrial processes. i appreciate that the proposal is prepared to make a significant contribution to reducing nox, so2 and dust pollution by setting limits for new and existing installations as well as a simple registration system to help member states meet a significant part of their emission reduction commitments and to avoid possible trade-offs between quality and increased use of biomass, which could otherwise lead to increased air pollution. in doing so, the administrative burden is kept to the lowest possible level, which gives a realistic hope for the application of the directive without creating an unnecessary burden on society and the economy.
in writing. ‒ in line with the ecr's opinion, i was in favour of this resolution. protecting the environment is a matter of survival for future generations. this is why we must also take a responsible approach and commit medium-sized combustion plants to reduce emissions. the pursuit of profit can never be more important than the preservation of air quality.
in writing. ‒ although emissions of air pollutants have decreased significantly in recent decades, we are still witnessing that air quality in many areas of the eu remains problematic and citizens are exposed to substances that potentially threaten their health and wellbeing. i therefore believe that it is our moral duty to look for new ways of bringing the union below the limits it has set itself. as there are currently around 150 000 medium combustion plants in operation in the eu, which are a significant source of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and dust emissions, it is necessary to adopt measures to help member states reduce emissions of certain pollutants into the air. i supported the resolution because i believe that the regulation of medium-sized combustion plants with rated thermal input between 1 and 50 mw is one of the options that can create a more coherent regulatory environment and thus close the large gap in current eu legislation. at the same time, i expect the changes brought about by the report to be an important tool for improving air quality in the eu without imposing an unnecessary burden on society and the economy.
in writing. incineration plants cause significant pollution to the environment. they should be operated efficiently and at the same time in an environmentally sound manner. however, the setting of specific limits must remain in the hands of the individual member states.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from the vote on the motion. more important than taxing smaller power plants is fighting to end coal subsidies and reduce overall emission limits. the current emission limits are unnecessarily strict, as high electricity prices have led many companies to move to countries such as china or india, where environmental standards are much lower, and thus the total emissions are ultimately rising.
in writing. ‒ medium-sized combustion plants, unlike small and large combustion plants, did not have a common european regulation, despite the fact that there are some 150 000 of them in operation in the european union and that, as installations used for the production of heat, cold or steam, they are significant producers of air pollutants and human pollutants. the report proposed emission limits for these combustion plants, which, although they will entail increased costs for the purchase of new boilers and other necessary technical equipment during the transitional period after the directive has come into force, will in turn give us a cleaner and, above all, more sustainable environment. i have therefore decided to support the report after considering the positive and negative effects that the new emission limits will undoubtedly have also on slovakia, which has thousands of such medium-sized combustion plants in operation.
in writing. ‒ the food industry must be seen in the context of the general food law, which aims to guarantee the free movement of safe and healthy food and thus contribute to the health and quality of life of the citizens of the member states of the european union. it is therefore important to ensure that consumers are adequately informed about the food they consume. the european commission proposal covers the casein and caseinates components which are not intended for sale to the final consumer but are used in the preparation of food products. i therefore consider it important that food business operators have at their disposal sufficient information necessary for the labelling of final products, in particular as regards allergens.
in writing. ‒ the directive takes into account the commission's powers under the treaty on the functioning of the european union, international treaties and current developments in the field of food products. limits for caseins and caseinates in food production are established between producers and the obligation to indicate this information on the packaging. the aim is to guarantee the free movement of safe and healthy food and to protect the health of the population.
in writing. ‒ the in the context of the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to caseins and caseinates intended for human consumption, i welcome the efforts to ensure that consumers are properly informed about the food they consume. although the products covered by the proposal (caseins and caseinates) are not intended for sale to the final consumer but only for inter-company sales for the preparation of food products, it is important that food business operators have the information they need to label the final products, in particular as regards allergens. i appreciate that the new rules will put the consumer first, by providing him with more accurate information in a way that is also acceptable to producers.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution because i am in favour of labelling certain lactoproteins (caseins and caseinates), which would allow consumers, and in particular those suffering from food allergies or intolerances, to make a decision on the basis of this labelling.
in writing. ‒ as food is one of the most important items in world trade, i consider it particularly crucial that producers supply the market with only safe and health-friendly products, thus ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health. although eu food policy has undergone significant changes in recent times and a number of consumer protection measures have been adopted so far, i consider it extremely important that we continue to unify the concept and rules of food production in order to create a uniform approach. although the products under discussion today (caseins and caseinates) are not intended for sale to the final consumer but only for inter-company sales for the preparation of food products, i consider it reasonable to harmonise the international standards concerning the maximum moisture content of food caseins at 12% and the maximum milk fat content of acidic food caseins at 2%. i am also convinced that this is the right way forward and i believe that only products and services will be on the market that do not endanger the health, life and overall safety of the consumer.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal as it concerns mainly technical changes to update and harmonise eu legislation.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on caseins and caseinates intended for human consumption, not only because it is part of the commission's refit programme, but also because it brings the legal requirements of european union law on the characteristics of these substances into line with the international codex alimentarius standard. i think it is useful to have uniform requirements for substances intended for human consumption and also to ensure that there is sufficient awareness of the possible allergens they may contain, which are currently causing considerable problems for the people of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's plenary adopted the report by mrs grässle on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu, euratom) no 966/2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the union. the proposal was designed to harmonise the financial regulation and the new rules on public procurement. given that the report aimed to bring the union's public procurement rules into line with the financial regulation, which sets out the rules for spending the eu budget, i supported the adoption of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the the obligation to apply the general procurement rules of the european union to crisis management measures under the common foreign and security policy and in particular to civilian missions is significantly delaying the procurement of essential equipment and services and has a negative impact on the functioning of those missions. as a rule, missions operate in crisis environments and only for a limited period. i therefore support the proposal to introduce specific rules for such missions in crisis or post-crisis environments and to align the regulations on budgetary rules with the provisions of the new public procurement directives for external actions.
in writing. ‒ the draft financial regulation aims to amend and streamline the existing rules relating to the general budget of the union. it is now mandatory to apply the regulations and rules in the same way in all circumstances. however, these rules are not adapted to crisis and post-crisis situations where their application may have negative impacts such as delays, incomplete equipment and malfunctions within missions. it is necessary to adapt the existing eu budgetary rules and to introduce specific rules for common security and defence policy missions in order to increase their flexibility and efficiency. it is therefore appropriate to provide for greater flexibility of procedures by delegating budget implementation powers to the civilian operation commander, which will lead to efficient financial management and the protection of the financial interests of the union. i call for the budgetary measures to be aligned so that the regulations under the cfsp are adapted to the situations and conditions. however, the essence of the change in the general rules on public procurement must remain efficiency, effectiveness and, above all, transparency.
in writing. ‒ i support a resolution that will increase transparency and fairness in public procurement and the award of concessions by the eu institutions. i also welcome the extension of the criteria for exclusion from participation in public procurement by the eu institutions, such as tax fraud and tax evasion, or misappropriation of public funds.
in writing. the budgetary rules, like all other eu rules, must be respected if we are to ensure an efficient and fair functioning. where the rules are not appropriate, for example in crisis responses in third countries under the common defence and security policy, they must of course be adapted to ensure the swift and flexible execution of operations.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal as it introduces measures that can increase the efficiency of the use of the european union budget and reduce the amount of fraud. but much more needs to be done to make the eu budget truly effective, as the vast majority of it still consists of euro funds and subsidies to farmers, which do more harm than good.
the capital markets union is the right thing to do, especially when it comes to removing obstacles to investment. the single common market is always better, after all the free movement of capital is one of the fundamental pillars of the european union. the problem is that the commission's proposal does not simply seek to remove obstacles. the commission is also intervening in processes in which it should not be involved. the processes that she should be putting on the market. the commission is trying to steer the market through new regulations, and the problem is not a few regulations, but many, no matter how well-intentioned. if the commission really wants to help private investment, it should immediately scrap juncker's 315 billion investment package. it's these investments, backed by public funds, that will displace the real, private ones that we're interested in. but the commission would have to understand that it is not really here to regulate everything.
every day more and more people make their payments electronically or via their smartphones. however, 30 million visually impaired people in the european union do not have full access to these services despite the existence of modern technologies. i regret that the obstacles they face, and in particular the measures to help remove them, are not even mentioned in the report. i would like to remind you that the european union is a signatory to the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, and that it is therefore our duty to remember this group of citizens and consumers. it is our duty to ensure that they too have seamless access to modern payment services in the 21st century.
madam president, i would like to stress in connection with this resolution the need to get rid of the old unresolved environmental burdens that must be tackled, otherwise the time bombs will continue to fall beneath us. i am particularly pleased that the emerging eu disaster insurance scheme will also cover situations arising from old environmental burdens which still pose a threat to society, health and public health and for which the current legal framework does not allow to establish the responsible party. the polluter pays principle is a very important principle in preventing environmental disasters. however, due to unclear ownership structures and a lack of accountability, there are still cases where disposal simply cannot be solved. it is time to create a stand-alone instrument within the eu framework that also finances the disposal of old environmental burdens and can serve as a kind of immediate dipping mechanism in the prevention of ecological disasters. i think this is particularly important because of the existing, neglected environmental time bombs in the new member countries of central and eastern europe.
in writing. the decision to build more lines of the northstream pipeline is not good news for the countries of europe, for our partners in ukraine and for the common european energy policy. the draft project not only threatens the interests of some eu member states, such as slovakia, but also directly interferes with the area of energy security and the diversification of supplies of energy raw materials, on which our common energy policy should be based. i strongly disagree with this project and would like the european commission to examine the merits of this project and take steps to suspend it.
for the ecr group. it is commendable that the european union is helping to solve the difficult problems of the third world countries with development aid, but along with that aid, a gender ideology and a culture of death are being increasingly aggressively imposed on sovereign states. it is conditioned by the acceptance of new models of coexistence, so-called gender or sexual orientation, and by the acceptance of the pro-choice agenda. pope francis recently stressed at the united nations that the people of the poorest third world countries need to be assured of the basic necessities of life and security, such as home, work, land, and freedom of spirit, but they do not need all kinds of quotas or an artificially induced fight against so-called stereotypes. when it is not a question of protection against violations of fundamental human rights, we are obliged to show respect for the law, history, culture and traditions of third countries. we have no right to seek ideological colonization by imposing anomalous models and lifestyles on the identities of foreign peoples, as pope francis has stressed. international institutions, including the european parliament, should strive for genuine integral human development for all. the first condition for such development is the right to life of every human being, from conception to natural death. this should be the motto of this institution, which is committed to being the guarantor of fundamental human rights.
the reporter. first of all, let me thank the shadow rapporteurs and the members of the committee on women's rights for their cooperation. although we didn't always see things the same way, i felt that we were united in our efforts to improve the status of women in the labour market. three years ago this parliament adopted a report by our colleague edith bauer on the principle of equal pay for men and women for work of equal value. this report contained a list of specific recommendations for the commission to improve the position of women in employment. but three years passed, and little changed. so i have focused in my report on four things that i think are key. first, to introduce a clear definition of work of equal value in all member states. second, to improve women's access to justice. third, the motivation of employers. and fourthly, a call on the commission to take all these requirements into account in the drafting of a new directive to replace the existing one and to impose higher requirements on the member states. the concept of equal work or work of equal value has so far been introduced in only 12 of the 28 member states. in most of them, it takes into account skill, effort, responsibility and working conditions. since the voluntary introduction of this concept has not produced the expected results, i propose that it should be made compulsory in all member states, which will also contribute to the deepening of the freedom of movement of labour in the european union. these are in particular paragraphs 8, 9, 10 and 11. the definition of work of equal value is complemented by the obligation for employers to define jobs neutrally, i.e. in such a way that neither men nor women are favoured as applicants. such a requirement may require greater sensitivity, but it certainly does not represent an additional administrative burden. as regards women's access to justice, i propose strengthening anti-discrimination offices and, where appropriate, trade unions in the member states and extending their powers, even to the point of offering women not only legal advice but also representation before the courts in discrimination cases. it is the lack of legal awareness and financial situation that prevents many women from seeking justice. when i speak of employer motivation, i am thinking in particular of the recommendation in paragraph 37 that companies that do not fulfil their gender equality obligations should be excluded from public procurement of goods and services financed from the european union budget. i would like to emphasize that it is not a sanction, but a motivation. anyone who wants to apply for european contracts must create a level playing field for the men and women he employs. ladies and gentlemen, the obligation to treat everyone equally has been enshrined in the treaties of the european union for almost 60 years and it is our responsibility to ensure that every employer in the european union respects it. in recent years, we have seen stagnation. it's time to finally get over it and move on.
the report is very good at identifying a problem which i personally consider important, and that is the problem of a specific group of parents, mainly mothers, who take care of their disabled children with great love and daily physical and mental commitment. it is a great shame that caring for such children is synonymous with living in poverty and gives rise to a phenomenon known as the feminization of poverty. member states must therefore be more involved not only in rewarding this work but also in creating conditions to promote the creation of jobs for mothers who want to work at least part-time but are rejected by employers because of the health problems of their children. it is not enough to have a ban on discrimination on paper, because the reality will change only when we finally stop thinking of these women as those who are inferior in the labor market. maternity, care for the sick, the elderly and the disabled must not be a stigma and a condemnation to a low pension, but a value in itself and an equal contribution to life in our society. (the president agreed to answer the question put under the blue card procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. you are right, there are many families where the father bears the burden, or where the father cares for a disabled child. sadly, in my experience, many families break up when a child is born with a disability. and so it's usually the mother who stays behind to take care of this baby, and the really financial value of such care is at the level of survival, not to mention the impact on her pension, of course. so when i talk about the fact that these women, mostly women, are at risk of poverty, it's a sad fact.
the reporter. thank you for the stimulating discussion. i felt that it supported a number of the ideas i tried to put into the draft of my report, and i am grateful for that support. but i also felt a number of reservations, even though several of them had nothing to do with my text. mrs morway is right to ask me that question, but unfortunately this report does not deal with the problem of women's pay in eastern and western europe. it's not possible to react to everything, and then let me react more symbolically. the process from committee approval of an own-initiative report to a vote in parliament's plenary sometimes resembles a banquet dinner with freshly baked fish. you've managed to bake it exactly the way you wanted it, it's got the right color, smell and taste, but you know there's gonna be bones in it. and sometimes there's so many of them, you can't eat a single serving. i'll admit, this report has bones, too. some are small and easy to swallow, but others are downright unpleasant and cause me concern. i tried to highlight these areas of concern for me through the 'split' and 'separate' votes. but i also realized that three of these places, three of these bones are indigestible to me, and that's article 18, amendment 2 and article 42. i have repeatedly pointed out in this house and in the committee over the past 11 years that the use of the term 'gender' is confusing because it is not legally defined. its content changes depending on its use in media or ideological pamphlets. the evidence is also in the different translations of the text of my report, which have different implications. i have devoted a great deal of time to the preparation of this report, but if, despite my best efforts, the final text is indigestible, i shall have to abstain. thank you again for your cooperation, support and understanding.
in writing. ‒ the draft resolution on payment services in the internal market adopted by parliament aims to complement and update the internal market regulation on payment services. parliament endorses the agreement reached between the institutions at first reading. the reforms will reduce the cost of money market services, provide consumers with free information on financial transactions, increase payment security and enable innovative new payment methods to be introduced in the market, with a view to the secure transfer of personal data. all these changes are in the interests of consumers and businesses. the development of an internal market for secure electronic payments will also allow the union economy to grow and to exploit the full potential of the internal market. i supported the report.
in writing. in the current era of globalisation, traditional trade is being transformed into a digital economy, while the offer of electronic payments to users is developing. these changes also require appropriate legislative adjustment to increase legal certainty and protection of the actors in these relationships. the proposal responds to the development of electronic and mobile transactions and the emergence of new types of payment services. the introduction of more precise rights and obligations for the individual, payment institutions and member states will contribute to the transparency and security of payment transactions, increase competition and at the same time eliminate unfair practices such as data misuse or money laundering.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the proposal for a directive on payment services in the internal market because of the continuing development of an integrated internal market, which is of great importance for promoting economic growth in the union. the key principles of full integrity and efficiency are security and transparency in payments and the use of payment services. it is therefore necessary to harmonise the market and to further strengthen consumer confidence. new rules should be established and a level playing field ensured to ensure the uniform application of the legislative framework in the eu. i consider it important to focus on providing adequate protection to consumers and businesses, who are bound by the right to know the actual cost of payments and services and to be clearly informed of their rights and obligations, with the aim of strengthening certainty towards a harmonised payment market. i appreciate the development of the integrated market and i welcome the regulations that will prevent different approaches within the internal market in order to take full advantage of the benefits it brings. the volume of electronic payments is constantly increasing and the use of new services is constantly increasing, which i see as a trend on a global scale. it is therefore necessary to recognise the need to accelerate the establishment and harmonisation of an efficient integrated payments market.
in writing. ‒ as regards the european parliament legislative resolution on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on payment services in the internal market, i voted in favour of adopting this resolution. the eu must also reflect the advent of modern technology and its use by citizens when paying for goods or services. however, two aspects need to be considered. the first is that there is a need to protect even more the personal data of account holders against misuse. and the second is to protect users from inadequate fees, whether from merchants or from the banks themselves. these two aspects were the main pillars of the proposal submitted.
in writing. ‒ cashless transactions and card payments are becoming an increasingly important means of transferring money. the directive we have adopted will make it possible to use modern technologies more efficiently and to protect consumers better.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal as it aims in particular to adapt eu legislation to today's conditions.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on payment services in the internal market, as i believe that the legal framework needs to be adapted to such a rapidly changing and evolving area as electronic payments undoubtedly are. and consumer protection, innovation, transparency and payment security are all topics that are very important when making payments, for example via a tablet or smartphone. on the other hand, i do not agree with the fact that the report does not deal at all with the possibility of adapting payment services to visually impaired persons. in fact, despite all the modern technologies, they cannot enjoy the benefits to which other consumers normally have access, since operators do not respond to their specific needs and the european union, unfortunately, does not respond to their specific needs in its legislation either.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the text of the motion for a resolution on spanish legislation on mortgages and risky spanish financial instruments, as did the pp position. the draft resolution was drawn up in the committee on petitions and, in the course of its elaboration, amendments were made to the text which are based on facts and not on petitions received on the subject. the timing of the adoption of the proposal for the spanish election period shows that its initiators are trying to use the document as part of the electoral campaign to address the issues of spanish citizens with consumer mortgages, putting the interests of citizens in the background. as vice-chair of the committee on petitions, i also believe that the issues raised by petitions, which call attention to the inadequate transposition or implementation of eu law within the member states, should be professionally examined, taking into account the opinion of the european commission and the case law of the court of justice of the european union.
in writing. ‒ austerity policies have pushed millions of eu citizens into poverty. in spain, 95 families lose their roofs every day. however, in many cases banks have not informed consumers, they have not carried out suitability tests and often it is older people who have been affected by the bad investment of their life savings. in other years, more than 700 000 spaniards have been victims of financial fraud due to the purchase of risky financial instruments by banks. i support the call throughout the european union for financial actors not to resort to disproportionate methods, such as evicting a family from its only home, and instead to deal with the effective restructuring of the debt that their policies have played a significant role in creating.
in writing. the misconduct of banking institutions in the form of banking malpractices, dishonest practices and inadequate mortgage interest rates, and the lack of state control over the banking and financial markets, together with the effects of the global economic and financial crisis, have left many families on the brink of poverty and in financial distress. this situation affects not only families in the countries of southern europe but also many families throughout the former eastern europe. the commission must therefore, together with the member states, rigorously monitor and revise the standards for mortgage lending and propose measures to reverse this situation. it is essential to do everything possible to increase prevention in this area, including by increasing the financial literacy of the population.
in writing. ‒ one of the most difficult consequences of the economic crisis in several eu countries is the difficult situation of displaced families who still have to pay mortgage payments. in many cases, banks failed to properly inform consumers of the risks associated with proposed investments and loans, resulting in many people losing their life savings, particularly in spain. i therefore voted, on the basis of the petitions received by the european parliament, to adopt a resolution on the legislation on mortgage loans and risk finance instruments in spain, which aims to tackle this serious problem.
in writing. - i did not support the motion. as unpopular as eviction of people who cannot pay their mortgages is, limiting it would be to the exclusive detriment of people who can pay their mortgages and would lead to moral hazard. harmonising mortgage rules would also go beyond the scope of the european union's competence and violate the principle of subsidiarity, as the disparate mortgage rules do not in any way disrupt the functioning of the eu single market.
in writing. ‒ the abolition of the death penalty worldwide is one of the main objectives of the eu's human rights policy. according to the office of the united nations high commissioner for human rights, more than 160 un member states have either abolished the death penalty or do not use it in practice. despite this, the latest figures show that in 2014, at least 2,466 people were sentenced to death in 55 countries, an increase of 23% compared to 2013. in addition, the imposition of death sentences and executions continue at an alarming rate in 2015. i particularly condemn the use of the death penalty by certain countries to crush resistance, and for reasons of religious difference or belief, homosexuality or adultery, or for any other reason which can be considered as a minor offence or not a criminal offence at all. i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution condemning the use of the death penalty and strongly supporting the introduction of a moratorium on the death penalty as a step towards its abolition, stating that the abolition of the death penalty contributes to the strengthening of human dignity and that the ultimate objective of the eu is the universal abolition of the death penalty.
in writing. ‒ on 10 october, we celebrate the world day against the death penalty, yet in 2014 alone, at least 22 countries carried out executions and at least 2 466 people were sentenced to death. in countries that still use the death penalty, dozens of europeans are facing execution. it is our duty to make every effort to abolish the death penalty at least for acts contrary to the international covenant on civil and political rights, and the death penalty should not be imposed for drug-related offences. it is important that the european external action service, the commission and the member states provide guidance for a comprehensive and effective european policy on the death penalty, with regard to the dozens of europeans facing this threat in third countries.
in writing. the use of the death penalty in the world is on a downward trend. yet, there are still countries in the world that use it as a legitimate punishment. statistics on this subject are sketchy because some countries withhold information. the execution of this punishment is often carried out in silence, without notification to the public or the family, in a humiliating and painful manner. there is no doubt that this punishment and the way it is carried out is inhumane. history has repeatedly shown that the punishment has been abused either intentionally or negligently, with irreversible and irreparable consequences. the eu and its member states reject the existence of the death penalty in the rule of law and advocate its abolition worldwide. i therefore support any initiative by the eu institutions and bodies that contributes to this.
in writing. ‒ the union as such has a huge number of unresolved issues today, and more are emerging every day. but this cannot blind us to the world around us, and as a result, the death penalty for europeans often becomes a fact that they accept. i find it alarming that people are still dying in the world today by the death penalty, but it is alarming that this method is on the rise. i therefore call for the fight against this inhumane end to life to continue and i am in favour of a moratorium on the death penalty as a step towards its abolition. according to available data, at least 2 466 people in 55 countries were sentenced to death in 2014, an increase of almost 23% compared to 2013. the number of death sentences and executions in 2015 continues to rise alarmingly, with even minors and persons with mental disabilities or mental retardation being executed, and dozens of europeans facing execution in third countries. i am also concerned about the mass trials that have led to a huge number of death sentences, although there is no question of respecting the right to a fair trial. in conclusion, i would like to express my support and gratitude to all the institutions, bodies and ngos for their persistent efforts in the fight against the death penalty.
in writing. - i supported the death penalty resolution, of course. the abolition of the death penalty worldwide is one of the most important human rights objectives of the european union, as well as one of the accession criteria of the countries wishing to join it. and yet, the figures that are being released on the occasion of world day against the death penalty are more than alarming. and that doesn't include the number of executions carried out in china, which reportedly executes more people than the rest of the world combined. i condemn all forms of application of the death penalty, whether in connection with drug offences or, in particular, the use of this penalty as a means of political struggle against the political opposition. and it is particularly serious when it is applied to minors, to the mentally or mentally disabled, or to the death penalty by stoning for adultery. i share the view that the death penalty is absolutely incompatible with human dignity, freedom, democracy and human rights, and i share the view that every human being has the right to respect for his or her natural right to life, human dignity and due process. therefore, i fully support any such resolution that strongly condemns the use of the death penalty and calls for its abolition.
in writing. ‒ parliament's resolution draws lessons from the red mud disaster in hungary five years ago and reiterates the need for common european solutions and cooperation in the event of environmental and industrial disasters and to prevent them. ten people lost their lives in the accident in the colony's waste storage, many were injured, the landslide that overwhelmed the areas of the affected villages caused significant environmental damage, we are talking about the worst industrial disaster in the history of hungary. the rescue and recovery efforts following the columbarium accident have become a symbol of solidarity. the resolution adopted was the result of a multiparty consensus, and i voted in favour of its text. i would like to stress that the resolution is forward-looking and calls on the european commission to continue work on the establishment of an eu disaster insurance system capable of applying the 'polluter pays' principle in the event of major industrial disasters. as long as there are no mandatory financial guarantees and the polluter is unable to compensate for the damage he has caused, the polluter pays principle cannot be applied in practice. all of this poses a risk in the event of an industrial accident. strengthening facility controls, avoiding bureaucratic constraints, and promoting the use of appropriate technologies in member states will play an important role in preventing similar disasters in the future.
in writing. the case of the october 2010 ecological disaster in hungary, when a dump of hazardous waste ruptured and caused damage to life, health and property, has raised more questions. this is the need for eu compensation for damage, but also for sufficient preventive measures in the field of hazardous waste management and the associated environmental protection. red sludge and other hazardous waste are still a risk of such environmental and industrial disasters in other eu countries. we must therefore require the commission to report on compliance with eu environmental liability standards and, on the basis of its findings, to propose new measures to strengthen the preventive effects in this area.
in writing. ‒ the collapse of a waste dam in hungary on 4 october 2010 was the last, but certainly not the only, such accident in europe in recent decades. it is therefore really necessary to learn enough and take measures to ensure that the disaster that killed 10 people and injured almost 150 in hungary five years ago is the last one to remain. moreover, its consequences did not end with this calculation. as a doctor, i would like to point out that the drying of the mud that has been left in the environment after nearly a million cubic meters of highly alkaline red mud has been deposited has produced fine dust that settles in the respiratory tract and travels up the circulatory system, potentially causing other health problems. in addition, the mud dust from the accident contained other dangerous pests. in this case, the arsenic content is particularly dangerous, as it can cause oncological disease if it enters the lungs. as the accident has shown the inadequate implementation of eu law, the deficiencies in inspections and the gaps in the relevant eu legislation, i join my colleagues in asking the commission: what lessons have been learned from this accident?
in writing. ‒ the tragic events of 4 october 2010, when a waste tank with bauxite sludge from aluminium production ruptured, marked the entire surroundings of the affected area of vesprém county. i therefore appreciate the fact that the european parliament is returning to this event in order to improve the remediation of the damage that still persists after the accident. that's why i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ the european union has always aimed to promote gender equality and ensure that it is applied in all its activities. gender equality and the empowerment of women are also a prerequisite for achieving sustainable development for the period up to 2015 and constitute a separate human rights chapter. i must also remind you that the majority of people living below the poverty line in the world are women or women-headed families, and that even today nearly 62 million girls worldwide are out of school, and 14 million girls are forced into marriage every year. it is therefore important to call on member states to strengthen their gender equality policies and to create better conditions also in the area of the integration of employment and family policy.
in writing. the issue of gender equality is frequently raised in the ep's agenda in the form of various reports. the problem is mainly the politicization of this issue and the inadequate interference with the competences of the member states. in order to find a positive solution, i believe it is necessary to reassess the current positions on the hotspots and to develop a new eu action plan on gender equality, which will objectively assess the facts and propose solutions acceptable to all eu member states.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution tabled on the basis of oral questions on the renewal of the eu action plan on gender equality and the empowerment of women in development cooperation is another in a series that outwardly speaks the fine language of human rights and gender equality, also listing necessary and laudable goals, such as the elimination of violence against women in the context of war conflicts, but in reality is again an attempt to export gender ideology from the european continent to third world countries under the guise of 'development aid'. when the right to 'reproductive health' is mentioned in similar resolutions, it is access to contraception and abortion that is meant. while the right to health is a human right, the right to abortion is not in any international declaration. the 'gender theory' also obscures the division of humanity into two sexes, and therefore does not create the conditions for either their mutual cooperation or efforts to eliminate real discrimination. i would also point out, on the basis of several articles of the lisbon treaty, that the european union has no competence to tell other countries how to proceed in this respect. i therefore reject the motion for a resolution.
i regret very much that i could not vote for my own report. i am particularly sorry about this because the report contains many good proposals which have the potential to improve the position of women in the labour market. i also tried to draw attention to the fact that the gender pay gap starts to show up after the first child and then it just gets bigger. i also highlighted the importance of unpaid care provided by women, whether to their children or other close family members, for which they are de facto penalized. but in the end i abstained because amendments were introduced into my text with which i cannot agree. the attempt to address the status of women is clouded by gender ideology that obscures the original text. this may mean that we will not be able to address the practical obstacles to women's pay in the future either, because the word 'woman' may eventually disappear from the proposals altogether.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the many years of work of my colleague, ms záborská, which is also reflected in the report on equal opportunities and equal treatment between men and women in employment and occupation. the report on the application of directive 2006/54/ec points out that member states have done a lot to transpose the directive into national law, but it also rightly points out that despite these efforts, the gender pay gap persists in society, mainly due to the lack of proper transposition. member states need to do more to eliminate this discrimination completely. despite the efforts of the rapporteur and many meps, the report unfortunately includes a number of recommendations which are in breach of the principle of subsidiarity. these include the introduction of sanctions for employers who discriminate in each member state, and mandatory annual gender equality business plans for companies. i therefore abstained from voting on the report.
in writing. ‒ the the issue of gender equality in employment is a recurring one, whether at european or domestic level. the shift towards equality needs to be exponentially faster. today, despite the occasional promises and talk of employers, there is very little action in this area. the continuous improvement of the conditions for the employment of women, including their adequate remuneration, is one of the important factors in the often mentioned sustainable economic growth and the overall development of our society. a change must also take place in our thinking, and the associated breaking down of stereotypes. the proposed measures must also include efforts to bring employment policy more closely into line with family policy. after a week's work, we should be able to guarantee at least one day off.
in writing. discrimination against women in matters of employment and occupation is undesirable and unacceptable in a democratic society. its effects are negatively reflected in the different stages of women's social and economic life, which deteriorates their overall quality of life. i support the drafting of an amendment to the existing directive 2006/54/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 5 july 2006 on the implementation of the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment of men and women in matters of employment and occupation, so that this amendment takes into account past practice and findings in the area of unequal treatment and establishes fairness and equality between women and men.
in writing. ‒ i welcome and consider it necessary to take very active steps towards equal opportunities and equal treatment of men and women in matters of employment and occupation. i am aware that the tension between family and work life contributes to low birth rates in most member states, which threatens the labour market, healthcare and pension systems. in fact, surveys show that europeans would like to have more offspring. but only if they're economically viable. however, analyses show that the gender pay gap is most visible after women return to the labour market after their first maternity leave. moreover, they increase after retirement, when, according to available statistics, women in the eu receive on average 39% less pension than men. i therefore join the recommendation that the importance of unpaid work by women as carers be taken into account and that the value of this unpaid work be appropriately recognised. at the same time, however, i must reject the fact that, in the context of this meaningful issue, the ambiguous concept of 'gender' appears again in the text of the report, in place of the unambiguous concept of 'sex', which experience has shown is clearly manipulated.
in writing. ‒ unjustified gender pay gaps still exist and are unacceptable. another key factor that puts women at a disadvantage in the labour market is their maternal role. both of these lead to differences in the amount of old-age pensions, and all of this leads to the feminization of poverty. the undervaluation of the contributions of women mothers in childcare and other dependants in informal home care and their investment in human capital only contributes to this societal economic and social injustice and persistent inequalities. it is therefore necessary to take concrete measures and take the necessary steps to overcome this injustice. the report does not take sufficient account of these facts and at the same time uses misleading gender terminology. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i am clearly in favour of family policy and active women, but i do not agree that equal opportunities should be addressed by administrative quotas. women can assert themselves without such regulation.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from the vote on this case. it's not that i don't support equal opportunities and equal treatment of men and women in the workplace. in my view, equality and non-discrimination are an important part of the values to which the european union subscribes. i consider it very important in particular to close the gender pay gap and the resulting pension gaps, which only minimally take into account the time a woman has spent caring for her family, nursing household members or, in many cases, sacrificing to care for a disabled child. on the other hand, the committee has included in the report a number of themes which i do not support, in particular statements concerning mandatory quotas in employment as the most effective means of achieving equality, as well as many in my view ineffective and particularly burdensome obligations for employers, such as gender plans, compulsory audits, and reports on gendered pay. i have taken note of all these points and have decided not to vote for the report, but in respect of the positive provisions and the overall idea of the report, i have also decided not to vote against it and have therefore abstained in the final vote.
in writing. although action to tackle climate change and reduce greenhouse gas emissions is a priority for the european union, it is no longer the driving force behind climate change and global warming negotiations as it was in the past. one reason is that the carbon footprint of the 28 eu member states is relatively small in comparison with some developing countries. according to the latest estimates, the achievement of a limit of global warming of + 2 degrees by 2050 is not in sight and, on the current trajectory, warming of up to + 4 6 degrees could occur by the end of the century. i therefore support the actions of the european commission in adopting the communication entitled 'paris protocol concept for tackling global climate change beyond 2020' as part of the european union's preparations for the final round of negotiations ahead of the 21st united nations climate change conference in paris. we must not forget that combating climate change is a shared european commitment and that the poorest parts of the world, which have the least capacity to combat climate change effectively, are the ones who will pay the most for climate change.
in writing. the ukrainian local elections on october 25 will be a virtual mirror of whether our diplomatic efforts in the ukrainian-russian conflict are making sense. ukraine's struggle for independence, its rapprochement with the west is extremely important, and it is our duty to help the country along the path of consolidation. financially, but also morally, by showing and expecting the rule of law, the elimination of corruption and the implementation of economic reforms. for the sake of all of us. otherwise, the future of the masses will be bleak, and the union will have to contend not only with the wave of migration from the middle east but also with a humanitarian crisis in our neighbourhood and, quite possibly, with the reception of millions of ukrainians who have come from a place of despair.
in writing. i consider it a key finding of the commission, which issued the report on the downing of the malaysian plane, that it exposed russian lies and propaganda.
in writing. we all watch with concern the rise of hate speech in the world and in europe, the rise of parties that promote anti-semitism, islamophobia and intolerance. with the arrival of migrants, these expressions have become even more acute, and we must therefore combat them very effectively, explaining, especially to young people, that religion, race or ethnic origin cannot be the cause of hatred. this year we commemorated the end of world war ii in europe and the world. we should also use this anniversary to explain to a generation that has not experienced the horrors of war that the seeds of war are hate speech, intolerance, anti-semitism, xenophobia, and intolerance. if europe is to prosper and live in peace, we must tolerate each other, show solidarity and make policy so that every european is convinced that the eu was rightly awarded the nobel peace prize in 2012.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of giving the green light to the designated authorities of the member states and europol to access the visa information system (vis) for consultation. the current security challenges, terrorism and other serious crimes call for closer cooperation between member states. in order to address those challenges effectively and to prevent, detect and investigate crime, specific measures should be introduced. it is important that we equip the competent authorities with the tools to act effectively in the fight against organised crime and terrorism in order to protect our citizens. the vis aims to improve the implementation of the common visa policy, consular cooperation and consultation between central visa authorities by facilitating the exchange of data on applications and related decisions between member states, in order to facilitate the visa application procedure, prevent 'water shopping', facilitate the fight against fraud and controls at external border crossing points and on the territory of the member states. the vis shall also assist in the identification of persons who may not, or no longer, fulfil the conditions for entry to, stay in or establishment in the territory of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in agreement with the european people's party on draft amending budget no 6/2015, which contains a technical adjustment to the revenue side of the eu budget. the gni-based national contributions to the budget compared to the original 2015 budget will be reduced by eur 2,26 billion due to a higher than expected revenue from traditional own resources (customs duties and sugar levies) of eur 1133,5 million. the draft takes into account the revision of the projections for traditional own resources and for vat and gni resources, the corresponding corrections for the united kingdom, and thus modifies the distribution of contributions to the union budget between member states.
in writing. ‒ from a technical point of view, this draft amending budget will have absolutely no impact on the expenditure side of the 2015 budget and its impact on the revenue side will only be reflected in a change in the distribution of member states' contributions. compared to the original 2015 budget, the gni-based budgetary contributions of the member states may be reduced by eur 2,26 billion due to higher than expected revenues from traditional own resources.
in writing. ‒ i agree to increase the resources for the emergency fund and to increase the capacity of the three relevant agencies.
in writing. ‒ as this is a technical measure which does not increase the european union's expenditure, i supported the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the €66.1 million from the flexibility instrument should be used to finance measures to deal with the refugee crisis, parliament has decided. the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument has become necessary in connection with the transfer of commitment appropriations within chapter 3 proposed in draft amending budget no 7/2015. the european commission has proposed the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument. the resources in the union budget for 2015 in the area of asylum and migration crisis management are increased by a commitment appropriation of eur 66,1 million, in addition to the ceiling of the multiannual financial framework. i supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ the according to frontex, more than 710,000 migrants crossed the eu's borders between the beginning of the year and the end of september, half as many as the 282,000 migrants who crossed the union's external borders all last year. in september alone, a total of 170,000 were recorded, down slightly from 190,000 in august. it is clear that the european union will have to release additional funds to deal with the migration crisis in europe. the european commission has proposed to mobilise the flexibility instrument beyond the ceilings of the multiannual financial framework in order to supplement the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2015 with an amount of eur 66,1 million in committed appropriations to finance measures related to the management of the refugee and migration crisis.
in writing. ‒ in accordance with the budgetary rules, the flexibility instrument of the multiannual financial framework for the years 2014-2020 is being mobilised to support measures relating to the refugee crisis, with a total amount of eur 66,1 million. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european schools in the member states and the european schools in the union.
in writing. - i welcome the report. the eu's credibility is demonstrated not only by its fine words but also by its actions, by its ability to assess and manage the situation in its place as a global actor, and to respond to challenges. the current wave of migration and the related problems to be solved are, it can be safely said, unprecedented in the history of the european union. the situation cannot be delayed. that is why i am pleased to see that we are channelling substantial eu funds, including €100 million to help the member states most affected by the crisis, increasing the budget of the institutions involved in the management of the situation, such as frontex, the foreign service and europol, by €1.3 million, and committing a further €300 million to help third countries involved in the management of the syrian conflict.
in writing. ‒ the budgetary amendment aims to strengthen eu resources for the refugee and migration crisis. the amendment increases the amount of emergency aid under the asylum, migration and integration fund and the internal security fund by eur 100 million. the amendment increases the number of posts for frontex, easo and europol by 120 and increases the resources of the european neighbourhood instrument by eur 300 million. the payment appropriations for humanitarian aid will be increased by eur 55,7 million through reallocation. i supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the draft amending budget in question, which provides for an increase of eur 80 million in emergency aid from the asylum, migration and integration fund and eur 20 million from the internal security fund. in addition, the proposals include 120 additional posts to expand the capacities of the three agencies frontex, easo and europol. the european parliament has long pointed to a significant under-staffing of staff in the agencies concerned, who are constantly required to perform additional and additional tasks. the european commission's proposals in question need to be addressed urgently in order to allow for funding and additional staff to be available during 2015.
in writing. ‒ there are no easy solutions to the refugee crisis, but the tools at the disposal of national governments should be put into action as quickly as possible. in order to enable eu member states to cope with the current wave of migration, it is also essential that the agencies set up to protect the external borders and facilitate the asylum process are strengthened. i therefore supported the draft amending budget, which will free up more than eur 400 million for the european agenda on migration. this package provides for an increase of the emergency assistance provided from the asylum, migration and integration fund by eur 80 million and from the internal security fund by eur 20 million. in addition, the proposals include 120 additional posts to expand the capacity of three agencies later this year: 60 posts for frontex, 30 for the european asylum agency (easo) and 30 for europol. the additional funding will also be directed to the european neighbourhood instrument and the additional payments will also go to humanitarian aid. the protection of external borders and the management of migration flows will be challenges for member states to address in cooperation with each other. the funding the ep has released today should also encourage member states to be more flexible in dealing with this emergency.
in writing. ‒ addressing the migration situation also requires strengthening border security resources and the organisation of reception camps. but it also puts pressure on the resources in the member states to integrate refugees and on social systems and their effectiveness.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from the vote on the motion. i welcome the increase in funding to deal with the refugee crisis and particularly welcome the fact that a substantial part of this funding is to be transferred from other parts of the eu budget. however, i do not agree that a significant part of this expenditure should be financed by an increase in the eu budget of eur 330.7 million. given that the european union budget has huge reserves for cuts, i find this unacceptable.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report of the committee on legal affairs referred to the plenary on the suspension of the immunity of the member of the european parliament, béla kovács. the case, which was followed by a great deal of media interest, was voted in the european parliament after a year and a half due to the delays requested, and has now been handed over to the hungarian judiciary. the case is not unique, and the ep has already on several occasions complied with requests for suspension by member state authorities relating to immunity. until the judgment is rendered, the representative may not be restricted in the performance of his duties.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the waiver of the immunity of mep béla kovács, because the prosecutor general of hungary had requested the waiver of immunity on the basis of reasonable suspicion of the offence of espionage against the eu institutions. given the very serious nature of the crime, it was important to remove the mp's immunity in order for the investigation to prove the guilt or innocence of béla kovács. the european parliament shall, as a rule, always waive the immunity of a member at the request of the national authorities, unless it is proved that there is an intention to cause political damage to the member concerned. although mr béla kovács defended himself before the committee on legal affairs, the committee decided that parliament should waive the immunity of the nominee, which the ep accepted.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion, as the acts for which béla kovács is to be investigated have no direct link with the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal to appoint the executive director of the european fund for strategic investments. pursuant to regulation (eu) 2015/1017 of the european parliament and of the council of 11 december 2015 on the european fund for strategic investments (efsi), the executive director and the deputy executive director of the efsi are to be appointed by the eib in accordance with the eib's procedures following an open and transparent selection procedure and after approval by the european parliament. on 2 october 2015, the esrb steering committee adopted a proposal for his appointment as referred to above, which it forwarded to the european parliament. on 13 october, the committee on budgets and the committee on economic and monetary affairs held a hearing with mr wilhelm molterer, the proposed candidate for the post of executive director of the esm. following a hearing, the european parliament approved the appointment of mr wilhelm molterer as executive director of the esm.
in writing. ‒ the european fund for strategic investments is an important part of the package of measures aimed at boosting growth and jobs in the eu. the function of the efsi director-general will be key to managing all processes that, if successful, will lead to high added value. this function should therefore be performed by a person who is a first-class manager. i expected the commission to require a thorough examination of the candidate's qualifications psychological tests, management tests... the interview alone could not give us a comprehensive view of the candidate's qualities and abilities. such procedures give me the impression that this is a purely political nomination, which carries risks. these risks are borne by the commission, which will bear full responsibility for the final outcome.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from the vote on the motion. the efsi is a key instrument for the development of the union's economy and for the creation of jobs. the efsi does not bring in any new resources, it simply redistributes existing ones. any success of the efsi will thus be at the exclusive expense of a corresponding reduction in private sector investment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on the eu's position in the run-up to the un climate conference in paris in december. the increasing frequency of temperature increases, droughts, floods and natural disasters is a major challenge not only for europe but also for the world. experts say that if we don't stop the 2 degrees celsius global temperature rise, we're facing irreversible environmental, natural changes. the paris climate change conference in november and the agreement that was agreed there will play an even more important role. at the 21st conference on climate change, the european union must take an ambitious stance in the negotiations, and i agree with that, as it is the only way to change the current negative processes. in march this year, european environment ministers adopted the eu's greenhouse gas emissions reduction commitments. the report calls for adequate financial support for developing countries to help these regions to move towards environmentally-friendly economic development through the use of new technologies. attention should also be paid to the financing of projects to protect communities vulnerable to the effects of climate change. a much more ambitious emissions reduction agreement than the previous one must be reached in paris. the fight against climate change requires stronger collective action than ever before. the european parliament will also have to give its consent for the european union to ratify the legally binding agreement to be reached as a result of the paris conference.
in writing. ‒ climate change affects the whole planet. if we don't do something to stop climate change, the world we live in will be irrevocably changed, and so will the way of life we take for granted. representatives of developed countries and parts of the world, such as the european union, must do more to change this alarming situation, because climate change is caused by the way people live, especially in richer countries with developed economies. i therefore support the actions of the european commission in adopting the communication entitled 'paris protocol concept for tackling global climate change beyond 2020' as part of the european union's preparations for the final round of negotiations ahead of the 21st united nations climate change conference in paris. the european union must be ambitious in the paris negotiations, rejecting any compromise and reaching a consensus with its partners to adopt an agreement that will make a significant contribution to climate change. i firmly believe that if an acceptable agreement is reached, the european parliament will give its consent to such an agreement.
in writing. ‒ climate change due to human activities is having a negative impact on all life on our planet. the new global climate agreement in the making, due to be adopted in paris in december, could change this. however, this is conditional on respect for and, hence, adherence to a legally binding international treaty to which both developed and developing countries are party. the eu and the states acceding to the agreement must allocate funds associated with measures, projects and investments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, transition to a low-carbon economy and reduce the energy intensity of production and consumption in all sectors of the economy.
in writing. ‒ i consider the fight against climate change and its potential threat to stability and security worldwide to be a key issue that needs to be addressed at international level with the participation of all stakeholders. i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe that only a comprehensive, transparent and legally binding international agreement can ensure that global warming is kept below 200c. while the eu is well on track to meet its greenhouse gas emissions reduction and renewable energy targets, i believe it is important to intensify the dialogue between the eu and national parliaments, local authorities, civil society, the private sector and the media within and outside the eu to meet climate policy objectives. as these actors have played, and i expect they will play, an increasingly important role in the climate debate, i think it would be a great shame not to harness this potential. as finance is expected to play a very important role in the agreement to be concluded at the paris conference, it is essential to prepare a sufficiently stable and transparent financial package for the implementation of the agreement in preparation.
in writing. ‒ in addressing this issue, we must not forget about employment in the eu, so as not to drive employers out of the eu.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the proposal because i do not agree with further tightening of the eu's climate targets. the eu's climate targets are already too strict and are producing the exact opposite of the intended effects. high energy prices are driving companies out of the eu to countries like china or india, where environmental standards are much lower and overall emissions are rising. further tightening of climate targets would thus only reinforce this trend.
on behalf of the ppe group. i believe that this report is a major milestone in the field of the citizens' initiative, and it is no accident that it has been dealt with by three committees. the parliament's view on the matter also seems to differ from that of the commission. we may be more positive about the citizens' initiative, but we are clearly more critical about the way it has been used. but i am also glad that the debates of the past few months have brought the two sides closer together. as vice-chairman of the committee on petitions, i appreciate and respect that. in the work ahead, we need to ensure that the decision-making processes for initiatives are institutionally balanced. i also hope that in the cases before the court of justice of the european union, the court will give an answer to the dilemma that exists between us and the commission as to whether the european commission has applied the rules on the admissibility of initiatives too rigidly. finally, mr timmermans, i would like to ask the commission for its generosity. it would be good to see more successful citizens' initiatives in the near future.
i am very pleased that the rapporteur, mr schöpflin, has summarised in his report the many shortcomings of the european citizens' initiative. because only if these shortcomings are addressed will the initiative have a chance to become a functioning instrument of democracy. the way in which the commission has swept the citizens' initiative one of us off the table remains a huge disappointment for me and for two million other citizens. the revelations of the trafficking of aborted children's organs and their use for research confirm the risk of funding such experiments from the european union budget. by ignoring the voice of the citizens, the commission has not taken advantage of the refusal of such funding and has also ignored the decision of the european court of justice in luxembourg.
mr president, we have discussed the eci several times in official and unofficial debates. since 2012 we have had this instrument in european politics, and the number of successful initiatives demonstrates its success – or, better to say, failure – as not one led to a legislative process. i advocate the eci in this house, and i am happy to welcome the suggestion of a rapporteur to make this tool more accessible for the european citizens – but i think it is not enough. mr commissioner, i ask you please to explain to citizens the lack of transparency in this matter. how come the institution responsible for it also checks the admissibility, and not a neutral body? will the commission finally start sending proper reasons for all ecis which were refused in the past or revise the decisions on those ecis where the commission does not have proper reasons? or is it a question of political correctness – my question – when almost 2 million citizens speak for not killing children before natural birth, or is this not welcomed any more? will you restore trust in the eci?
in writing. i believe that strengthening participatory democracy is the key to europe's future, the guarantee of development. if we look at the evolution of democracy, from the ancient greek example of privileged participation to the modern day opportunity for participation in public life that is, in principle, open to all, i think the path forward is clear. it's not enough to drag citizens to the ballot box. they need to be given much more power to make their voices heard, and if they are not, then the frustration will lead to demotivation, and fewer and fewer people will vote as a result. this participatory democracy is reinforced by the institutions of petitioning and citizens' initiative. i think the legislator's intention was clear when he regulated the latter. the system still doesn't work. the european commission seemed to fear that its comfortable bureaucratic system could be invaded from outside and that the right of initiative might be taken away from ordinary citizens. he doesn't like it when almost two million people line up for an initiative like the right to water initiative. this situation is untenable and the solution to the problem cannot be delayed. the delay increases the frustration and mistrust of brussels. i hope that this report will help us take concrete steps in the right direction.
the slovak parliamentary elections in the spring will probably be decided by the real non-existent threat of an influx of immigrants. the propaganda prepared by the ruling party with the slogan "we protect slovakia" might seem like a cheap phrase, because protecting the country is the duty of every government. but the socialist billboard campaign being prepared is the political culmination of deliberately spreading fear of the influx of migrants. but with this populism, it will be necessary to repeat many times that slovakia is protected from hundreds of thousands of immigrants by our poor economic situation and not the government. but we cannot have reservations about the legacy of this campaign if the ruling party smer considers slovakia's plight to be its own merit.
the arrival of large numbers of refugees has divided society in the member states and across the european union. but the negative attitude of many of our citizens is often linked to a perceived social injustice. the right to housing, food, health care and allowances is not a given for citizens of slovakia and other countries. social benefits are sometimes insufficient to provide housing, food, or medicine, especially for families with young children. the obligation to help those in need applies to refugees as well as to our citizens. the refugee crisis is an opportunity to rethink social systems, especially in the new member states. it is a reason to open a debate on the rights deriving from human dignity and the weight that merit should have in social systems.
i consider the protection of the external borders to be one of the priorities of the refugee crisis. an example of effective cooperation in this area is the joint deployment of police forces to hungary by the v4 countries. turkey's role is crucial in the influx of refugees into europe. but let's face it, financial and humanitarian aid to turkey should have come much sooner. the european union must not compromise its fundamental values even when formulating a political agreement with turkey. turkey is asking for the accession process to be speeded up, but it is unacceptable for us to trade in rules that each member state had to comply with. why, in the recent past, german chancellor angela merkel proposed to turkey a so-called privileged partnership instead of a real accession of turkey to the eu, and today, under pressure and panic, we are changing this position. let's offer turkey what it needs to stop the migration flows to europe, but let's not modify our sensible approach. the human rights situation or media freedom is a sufficient indication of whether a country is willing or able to meet the accession criteria.
mr president, since the beginning of the migration crisis i have been appealing to eu leaders to include the western balkan countries in its solution. these countries are directly affected by a flow of refugees and migrants passing through the balkan route. in order to solve this crisis we need to find a mode of tighter cooperation with them. we also need to be careful to prevent the creation of other crises in this region. financial support has so far been limited and our response came quite late. i am glad that the summit on sunday tackled these issues. i welcome the basic plan and concrete actions instead of building walls. in order to manage the migration flow we must cooperate closely on border management, fight human trafficking, share information and help in providing the necessary humanitarian assistance. i think managing this crisis together is also a chance to better prepare these countries for future eu membership.
i would like to appreciate the commission's position in this situation and in general on the solution to the refugee crisis. what i think is more to be considered and criticized is the attitude of some member states as not being prepared to deal with this crisis. last but not least, commissioner, i would like to mention one of the issues that is directly relevant to the solution of the refugee crisis, namely the rise of extremism, radicalism and fascism in the member states of the european union. we are starting to see not only mass demonstrations by extremists and radicals, but also repeated attacks on facilities where refugees are being housed and where we are trying to help them. and so i would like to appeal to the member states, not to us, not to parliament, not to the commission, but to the member states, to be much more proactive in combating the rise of radicalism and fascism in their own countries.
in writing, the media report daily on problems affecting refugees, on which member state is closing its borders and which is transporting refugees by bus to the borders of another member state. the member states are making decisions on the spot, and we cannot blame them for that, because there is no such thing as quick and timely decisions within the eu. i welcome the speeches by mr tusk and mr juncker, but they are delayed by at least a year. if we had talked about strict border protection a year ago, about expanding the mandate of frontex, about the rights but also the duties of refugees, about the help of experts and experts in the refugee crisis, thousands of refugees today would not have had to suffer from hunger, cold and unrealistic expectations on the way to the dream country of germany, and many people would not have died. i appreciate that negotiations have begun with turkey on joint assistance to refugees in reception camps in that country, where we would help to build and ensure social, material, hygienic and health conditions for refugees.
in writing. cooperation with the mediterranean and middle east countries is crucial to tackling the migration crisis, but we cannot offer these countries only short-term financing, but above all real development projects that will bring long-term stability and economic growth.
in writing. ‒ the proposal aims to repeal council directive 76/621/eec and council regulation (ec) no 320/2006 on the common agricultural policy. certain acts adopted in the last decade are no longer relevant today because their content has been taken over by later acts or because of their temporary nature. the commission does not have the power to declare acts adopted by the council to be obsolete and therefore the acts listed in the proposal should be repealed by the council and the european parliament by means of the ordinary legislative procedure. i therefore voted in favour of parliament's report, drawn up under the simplified procedure, which seeks to reconcile the two legal bases (agricultural policy and internal market policy) used when directive 76/621/eec was adopted on the fixing of maximum levels of fatty acids in oils and fats (eating fats).
in writing, the repeal of obsolete and practically ineffective rules will contribute to the simplification and transparency of legislation in the field of the common agricultural policy. similar revisions are needed for all union policies, making eu law clearer and more unambiguous in terms of its interpretation.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the proposal to repeal obsolete acts which are merely formal in nature and are no longer relevant in the current amended context. after examination of the proposal by the commission, parliament and the council are empowered to repeal the acts by means of the ordinary legislative procedure. this is the repeal of obsolete directives based on previous treaties or directives which are of a temporary nature. the aim of repealing obsolete acts is to increase legal transparency and clarity in union policy. the report proposes the repeal of the directive on the fixing of maximum levels of erucic acid in oils and fats and the regulation establishing a temporary scheme for the restructuring of the sugar industry. both acts have become obsolete due to their incorporation into a subsequent regulation.
‒ to guarantee the transparency and accuracy of european law, it is necessary to regularly update and consolidate legislative acts that have become obsolete. i therefore support the commission's proposal to repeal the regulations relating to the common agricultural policy which have become redundant because they are no longer applied in practice. we will thus repeal the obsolete directive regulating the maximum level of erucic acid in oils and fats, as well as the regulation establishing a temporary framework for the restructuring of the sugar industry.
in writing. ‒ in order to ensure better lawmaking, it is inevitable that european union law is constantly updated and consolidated. we can also do this by repealing acts that are no longer applicable. this will ensure greater transparency and certainty.
in writing, i voted to repeal the acts in question, as they no longer have any practical application. however, the common agricultural policy contains many more parts that are long outdated or even did not make sense when they were first introduced. their abolition would help eu taxpayers as well as productive farmers who could compete in a fair market, instead of an environment covered by uneven levels of subsidies.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report which proposed the repeal of two pieces of legislation in the field of the common agricultural policy, namely directive 76/621/eec and regulation (ec) 320/2006. the directive and the regulation no longer fulfilled their purpose in view of the changed circumstances. i am pleased that this vote has contributed to simplifying and updating the legislation.
in writing. ‒ the european union and switzerland signed an agreement on 27 may 2015 on the automatic exchange of financial account information to improve international tax cooperation and compliance. the agreement establishes an automatic exchange of information between the eu and switzerland on the financial accounts of each other's residents as from 2018. the information to be exchanged shall not only cover income such as interest and dividends, but also account balances and income from the sale of financial instruments. this is an important step in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion, which is why i supported the report. the agreement aims to ensure that switzerland applies enhanced measures equivalent to the eu directive updated in march 2014 and to comply with the automatic exchange of financial account information required by global oecd standards.
in writing ‒ on 27 may 2015, the european union and switzerland concluded an agreement on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts, the main objective of which is to improve international tax cooperation. this agreement represents a very important step in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. as a result of this agreement, the european union and switzerland will automatically exchange information on the financial accounts of their residents as of 2018.
in writing, the eu-switzerland agreement of may 2015 will enter into force and thus be of practical significance from 2018. switzerland should adopt measures equivalent to those in the eu in the area of financial control of accounts. the exchange of information on financial accounts will strengthen tax control and discipline, while helping to detect tax fraud.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the report on the eu-switzerland agreement on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts. this is a long-awaited agreement that will allow the automatic exchange of information between the eu and switzerland on the bank accounts of their citizens from 2018. the agreement is adopted to improve international cooperation and compliance in the field of taxation, and will serve to curb tax fraud and evasion. switzerland will apply measures that are in line with the eu directive. i agree that the commission will continue to play a monitoring and consultative role as a binding mediator. i believe that there is room for further adjustments to the agreement and therefore propose and invite the commission to review the application of this agreement 18 months after its entry into force.
in writing. ‒ i consider transparency in financial and banking operations to be an unprecedented condition for their functioning. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for the conclusion of an amending protocol to the agreement between the european community and the swiss confederation providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in council directive 2003/48/ec on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments on behalf of the european union. this amending protocol will allow the exchange of information on eu and swiss citizens' bank accounts in connection with the longstanding efforts of many people to avoid tax liability in the eu by using bank accounts in switzerland.
in writing, i voted in favour of the resolution because i consider the agreement to be a significant step in the efforts currently being made to reduce tax fraud and tax evasion and to complement the 2004 agreement. i believe that the proposed measures will improve not only the automatic exchange of information on income but also on account balances and proceeds from the sale of financial assets. i also believe that this agreement is a step towards fairer and more transparent taxation in europe and the end of swiss banking secrecy for eu citizens. i also consider the eu-switzerland agreement to be important because it strengthens the eu's policy on the automatic exchange of financial account information and can also have a positive impact on the conclusion of agreements with other countries.
in writing. ‒ i support increased transparency in eu-switzerland communication. the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts can improve the protection of our citizens by being an effective measure against fraud and tax evasion, and in particular against tax evasion.
in writing, ‒ as this proposal is primarily formal in nature and responds mainly to other legislative changes, i supported it.
in writing. ‒ the the issue of roaming has been around for several years. in 2012, a regulation of the european parliament and of the council was adopted which set the political objective of gradually harmonising charges for mobile communications at home and abroad, i.e. abolishing the roaming surcharge. under that regulation, roaming should end on 15 june 2017. we have now adopted a new regulation in parliament which introduces a transitional period between the current situation and the total ban on roaming surcharges. during this period, the maximum eu-wide roaming surcharges will be further reduced, starting from april 2016. this means that customers will not pay more than 5 cents per minute for a mobile phone call from abroad, sms will not cost more than 2 cents and 1 megabyte of data transferred will also cost a maximum of 5 cents. however, mobile operators will be able to apply a 'fair user policy'. this should prevent, for example, customers who have moved permanently to another member state from using roaming during this transitional period. in such cases, operators will be able to charge the customer a small additional fee, but this fee will not be higher than the maximum wholesale margin between operators. the threshold for the 'fair user policy' will be defined by the commission by 15 december 2015.
in writing, the directive on taxation of savings in the european union was adopted in 2003 and entered into force in 2005. in march 2015, the european commission presented a tax transparency package and, as part of this package, proposed the repeal of the 2003 savings tax directive. the european commission wants to remove the burden on member states to avoid having to apply the provisions of both directives and to avoid a double system in the collection of information and data. the abolition of the savings tax directive is possible if the european commission acts, if necessary, through legislative proposals, to ensure that the risk of loss of tax revenue for member states in the european union is reduced.
in writing, the council and the commission must give careful consideration to the practical implications, in particular if there is a risk of loss of tax revenue for the member states of the union, when proposing repeal. i therefore support the rapporteur's proposal that the commission report on the consequences of the repeal of the savings tax directive in relation to the bridging period until 2017, when the international exchange of information will take effect, and that the commission ensure, through legislative proposals, that any losses are excluded.
‒ the fight against tax evasion and the need for fair taxation is a major issue at european but also global level. as far back as 2003, the eu savings tax directive was adopted as a measure to ensure that savings interest is taxed. the directive has been applied in the eu countries and in separate agreements between the eu countries and the 12 overseas territories. in parallel, bilateral agreements were also concluded with five european countries outside the eu. in the meantime, the 2011 administrative cooperation directive has been revised to align it with the oecd global standard for the automatic exchange of financial account information in tax matters, which will apply from 1 january 2016. as part of the march 2015 tax transparency package, the commission proposes to repeal the savings tax directive so that member states do not have to apply the provisions of both directives in order to avoid the complexity of double data collection and transmission systems. as the administrative cooperation directive has a much wider scope, i support the repeal of the savings income tax directive.
in writing. ‒ i support proposals aimed at ensuring fair taxation, as this is an important issue at european as well as global level. i also stress the need to continue the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament is only consulted on the council's implementing decision. parliament's libe committee approved the draft resolution without a proposal for amendment, which was then presented to parliament's plenary. i voted for the text. the report aims to introduce automated data exchange in sweden. the exchange of data shall only be established if the country concerned fulfils the conditions. sweden complied with this, including by completing the questionnaire on data protection and fingerprinting. accordingly, sweden may send and receive personal data in accordance with decision 2008/615/jha. the draft has an important role to play in strengthening crossborder cooperation in the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime.
in writing ‒ this is a purely technical consultation procedure for the implementation of the so-called prüm decision on the exchange of dactyloscopic data in sweden. on the basis of the overall evaluation report submitted to the council, the council decided that on 13 july 2015 sweden fulfilled all the conditions and implemented the general provisions on data protection as set out in chapter 6 of the decision.
in writing, ‒ the exchange of dactyloscopic data in sweden will strengthen international police cooperation in the fight against terrorism, international crime and illegal immigration. the adoption of an implementing regulation is urgent in the current period of a complex security situation, when the union countries are under pressure from the enormous number of refugees and asylum seekers.
in writing. ‒ i agree that parliament should approve the proposal for a council implementing decision on the launch of an automated dactyloscopic data exchange in sweden, which aims to facilitate cooperation and address common security challenges. in view of its 2015 resolution on the european agenda on security, parliament has only a consultative role on the matter.
in writing. ‒ i support the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime. cooperation in the exchange of information on dactyloscopic data with sweden is also an important step in this fight.
‒ in the context of the intensification of crossborder cooperation, particularly in the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime, i am pleased that a system has been successfully tested and launched in sweden which will allow the automatic exchange of dactyloscopic data. i voted in favour of this council proposal because i believe that cooperation between the authorities of the individual countries is essential for european internal security. by adopting this legislative resolution, sweden will be obliged to transfer personal data if requested by the security forces of another country. the same is true in belgium and poland.
in writing, i supported the proposal as it aims to deepen cooperation between member states in the area of forensic science and the fight against terrorism.
in writing. ‒ i supported all three reports on the automated exchange of dactyloscopic data in sweden, belgium and poland. it is part of a system that facilitates crossborder cooperation between countries, particularly in the increasingly important field of combating terrorism and crossborder crime. and i believe that sharing personal data is an important part of the fight against this growing phenomenon. i also support the principle on which the accession of individual countries to the system is based. in order for countries to have access to personal data that is sensitive and potentially exploitable, it is necessary that countries meet well-defined conditions, thereby demonstrating their ability to participate fully in the automated exchange system.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament is only consulted on the council's implementing decision. parliament's libe committee approved the draft resolution without a proposal for amendment, which was then presented to parliament's plenary. i voted for the text. the report aims to introduce automated data exchange in belgium. the exchange of data shall only be established if the country concerned fulfils the conditions. belgium complied with this, inter alia, by completing the questionnaire on data protection and fingerprinting. accordingly, belgium is entitled to send and receive personal data in accordance with decision 2008/615/jha. the draft has an important role to play in strengthening crossborder cooperation in the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime.
in writing ‒ this is a purely technical consultation procedure for the implementation of the so-called prüm decision on the exchange of dactyloscopic data in belgium. on the basis of the overall evaluation report submitted to the council, the council decided that on 13 july 2015 belgium fulfilled all the conditions and implemented the general provisions on data protection as set out in chapter 6 of the decision.
in writing, ‒ the exchange of dactyloscopic data in belgium will strengthen international police cooperation in the fight against terrorism, international crime and illegal immigration. the adoption of an implementing regulation is urgent in the current period of a complex security situation, when the union countries are under pressure from the enormous number of refugees and asylum seekers.
in writing. ‒ parliament duly consulted the council on the report on the exchange of dactyloscopic data in belgium and, having regard to its 2013 resolution on strengthening cross-border cooperation in the eu law enforcement framework, also approved the proposal. for the reasons set out above, i support the adoption of the proposal and i join the council in calling on parliament to be informed if it intends to depart from the text as adopted.
in writing. ‒ cooperation on the exchange of information on dactyloscopic data is also an important step in the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime. belgium has fully implemented the general conditions on data protection and can therefore be included in the exchange of dactyloscopic data.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament is only consulted on the council's implementing decision. parliament's libe committee approved the draft resolution without a proposal for amendment, which was then presented to parliament's plenary. i voted for the text. the report aims to introduce automated data exchange in poland. the exchange of data shall only be established if the country concerned fulfils the conditions. poland complied with this, inter alia, by completing the questionnaires on data protection and fingerprinting. accordingly, poland may send and receive personal data in accordance with decision 2008/615/jha. the draft has an important role to play in strengthening crossborder cooperation in the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime.
in writing ‒ this is a purely technical consultation procedure for the implementation of the so-called prüm decision on the exchange of dactyloscopic data in poland. on the basis of the overall evaluation report submitted to the council, the council decided that on 13 july 2015 poland fulfilled all the conditions and implemented the general provisions on data protection as set out in chapter 6 of the decision.
in writing, ‒ the exchange of dactyloscopic data in poland will strengthen international police cooperation in the fight against terrorism, international crime and illegal immigration. the adoption of an implementing regulation is urgent in the current period of a complex security situation, when the union countries are under pressure from the enormous number of refugees and asylum seekers.
in writing. ‒ since the european parliament has been duly consulted on the issue of the automated exchange of dactyloscopic data in poland and all the legal requirements of the act have been met, i am voting in favour of the text presented, which aims to intensify cross-border cooperation and the necessary exchange of information.
in writing. ‒ supporting the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime requires certain steps to be taken. cooperation in the exchange of information on dactyloscopic data with poland is also an important step in this fight.
in writing. ‒ the rise of the digital world and the increase in online sales have significantly changed booking habits, with many self-organised trips now not covered by eu rules dating back to the 1990s or lacking clear passenger rights. for this reason, i voted in favour of amending the eu consumer rules on travel, as this will strengthen the protection of travellers. in future, the same rules will apply to online bookings of package holidays, including flights, hotel reservations and car rentals, as those purchased at a travel agency.
in writing, the last 25 years have seen major changes in the field of travel services, especially online sales, and therefore a thorough review of the legal framework governing package travel contracts is important. this revision will benefit consumers but also service providers. the revision will bring more effective rules to protect travellers in the event of insolvency of the service provider, stricter rules for traders when the package travel service does not meet consumers' requirements and, last but not least, improved protection for travellers in the event of non-return due to unforeseeable facts and circumstances.
in writing, the proposed council directive strengthens the rights of consumers in the area of package travel when online bookings are made, where consumers can download the services they require. the requirements and conditions for prior consumer information are being intensified, the liability of traders is being increased and the protection of consumers against the insolvency of organisers and service providers is being strengthened. the overall objective of the project is to improve the quality of tourism services in the union by improving the quality of tourism services in the union.
in writing. ‒ the as tourism plays an important role in the economies of the union, accounting for around 10% of its gross domestic product together with related sectors, i welcome the fact that the position presented by the council on the adoption of the package travel directive and linked travel agreements reflects the political agreement reached by the european parliament and the council with a view to the successful and prompt adoption of the directive. the current rules on this issue date back to 1990, when the internet did not exist, airlines were not liberalised and the tourism market was dominated by ready-made holidays. today, however, statistics show that nearly a quarter of holidaymakers buy customized holidays, with 35 percent of all travel sales being made online. i therefore consider it essential that the 120 million holidaymakers who buy tailor-made holidays should have the same rights as those who opt for packages, which the adoption of the directive will ensure. it also provides much-needed legal clarity and certainty for economic operators across the union market. the protection provided under the rules of the member states will thus be more comparable, thereby strengthening the basis for mutual recognition.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report, as it once again brings eu consumer-friendly regulation to an issue that affects millions of citizens. in our fast-paced world, travel decisions are increasingly made by browsing the internet to select a destination, accommodation, aircraft or other vehicle, or other services associated with a holiday. this has been recognized by travel agencies, and more and more package deals are being offered, often at far lower prices than those offered by traditional travel agencies. and you can do all of this from your chair at home - with far more options than if you were to walk into a traditional office. it is time to strengthen consumer protection in this area too. i therefore consider it extremely important that the new rules require providers to provide consumers with detailed and transparent information on all the terms of the contract, since surprising final amounts can be easily obtained by clicking on the internet, and that the customer can withdraw from the contract if the provider raises the price of the package by 8%. and in case of unforeseen circumstances, you'll be entitled to three extra days of accommodation insurance on these reservations. i think the european parliament has done a good job with this report, because we have managed to change the original commission proposal in the negotiations to make it much more consumer-friendly.
in writing. ‒ the travel services directive is useful consumer protection legislation. it needs to be revised due to the increase in the use of online commerce in this area. i therefore voted against the amendment which called for the european parliament to reject the council's position at first reading and suspend the whole revision process.
‒ tourism plays a very important role in the economies of the union, as evidenced by the fact that it employs some 1,8 million people, mainly smes, and that these employ some 5,2% of the total workforce. equally important, i believe, is that tourism and its related sectors account for around 10% of eu gdp. i am pleased that the package travel directive and the travel-related agreements have also helped to improve the quality of tourism services in recent times. unfortunately, we continue to see the emergence of tourism service providers that exploit consumers through unfair commercial practices. i supported the resolution because i believe that in order to protect consumers across the eu, measures must be taken to prevent tourism service providers from marketing services that they offer in a hidden, vague or ambiguous way. i believe that a higher quality of tourism services will increase traveller confidence and demand within and outside the eu, while at the same time increasing security, flexibility and choice. i also expect that the ambiguities and gaps in tourism legislation will gradually be removed, thus confirming that the eu is the world's leading tourism destination.
in writing. ‒ we are responding to the growth of digital business and the new types of services that come with it. customers will no longer be discriminated against on the basis of whether they order a service through the ordinary route or via the internet. i see this as an important step towards completing the single market.
in writing ‒ i abstained from voting on the motion. while i welcome measures to reduce the administrative burden, i do not agree with the introduction of new regulations to 'protect' the customer. the best protection for the consumer is competition in the marketplace. however, increasing the regulatory burden increases the barriers to entry and thus ultimately harms competition. moreover, any 'protection' is ultimately paid for by the customers themselves, whether in the form of higher prices or lower quality services.
in writing. ‒ the abolition of roaming charges is one of the european union's great achievements, which will benefit all citizens. the european parliament has helped citizens and businesses doing business across borders by introducing price caps since 2007, and now it will finally be possible for citizens of the european union to talk to each other at domestic rates from 15 june 2017 at the latest. in order to ensure a smooth transition between the regulations, a transitional period has been set this transitional period starts on 30 april 2016. during this period, the provider may add a surcharge to the domestic charges, but this surcharge may not be higher than the previous roaming charge. today's decision by parliament also addresses the issue of net neutrality. in this context, operators will be obliged to treat all traffic equally and will be prohibited from blocking or slowing down the transmission speed of different services. i voted in favour of the council's position at first reading, which could lead to the abolition of roaming charges.
in writing ‒ on 30 june 2015, after lengthy trialogue negotiations, the representatives of the european parliament reached an agreement with the member states on the regulations for the single market in electronic communications. for consumers in the european union, this will mean the end of high charges for sms, calls and data from 15 june 2017. from april 2016 to june 2017, mobile operators will be able to reduce prices up to four times compared to the reality faced by consumers today. the single market for electronic communications will also include net neutrality, which will be transposed into the national legal systems of the member states for the first time and will oblige all internet service providers in europe to have equal access to all internet bands and traffic.
in writing, i support the approval of the telecoms package agreement, which will allow for the introduction of clearer and more transparent rules on internet access, clarify the rights and obligations of users of electronic services and lead to the abolition of roaming charges from june 2017. removing the existing barriers to electronic services will help to build a functioning digital single market in the union, where citizens, businesses and service providers can use and provide electronic services without cross-border restrictions and unjustified costs and administrative burdens.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament legislative resolution laying down rules for a single european electronic communications market aims to harmonise rules to ensure access to the open internet, to protect end-user rights and to abolish roaming surcharges. i am very pleased that we have finally succeeded in approving the abolition of roaming charges in the eu from june 2017, which have long hindered the deepening of the internal telecommunications market and which have particularly burdened ordinary citizens and small businesses. i believe that a free and fast internet available to every eu citizen will contribute to the development of innovation and competitiveness in the internal market.
in writing. - i think this report is pointing in the right direction again. the right direction, to which we are committed on the basis of the eu's fundamental values, which unfortunately has been violated by momentary economic and business interests. both at national and eu level. for example, it is often mentioned in public forums that the eu is receiving the nobel peace prize when its member states engage in intensive arms trade with dictatorships in third countries. our stand against the death penalty, against torture, against inhuman treatment is extremely important. however, the return of poisons for lethal injection shall be from the territory of the union. same thing if the tech support is coming from here. so this report is important because it aligns our political beliefs with the rules that are acceptable in business. congratulations to the reporter.
in writing. ‒ i support this resolution, which sets out rules to end roaming charges for intra-eu travel in june 2017 and which also sets out rules to ensure an open open internet in the eu in line with the principles of net neutrality.
in writing, i supported the proposal for a regulation which parliament managed to negotiate after two years, because the date on which roaming charges will cease to be charged in the eu has finally been set. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the level of the charges for the period from 1 january 2017 to 31 december 2018. in the meantime, it will be necessary to ensure that the commission concludes the reform of wholesale roaming charges in a timely manner. the compromise reached with the council is a necessary step for operators to look for ways to provide services to citizens of member states that would allow them to move more freely around the eu. we also agreed on the need to keep the internet open by establishing net neutrality rules. many eu countries have so far had no legislation governing the internet, which can prevent all users from having equal access to content shared on the internet. we will require internet service providers to access all content in a non-discriminatory manner so that certain content is not inappropriately blocked. any regulation of data flows must be transparent and not be a matter of commercial interest. it is unacceptable that small business websites are disadvantaged because some corporation will pay for priority data transmission. websites and platforms should be treated equally, every content that is shared on the internet should be treated equally.
in writing. ‒ free and fast internet should be available to every eu citizen. today's decision will no longer allow an operator to block certain services without justification or to mislead consumers about the speed of their connection. the definitive abolition of roaming will bring further savings for citizens and businesses.
in writing. ‒ i supported parliament's view on an agreement that will allow for the automatic exchange of information between the eu and switzerland on the bank accounts of their citizens from 2018. this means that it will be more difficult for eu citizens to hide cash in swiss accounts in order to avoid paying taxes in the european union. tax evasion will be more difficult, bringing more money into the state budget for, say, education or health care. the agreement aimed at combating tax fraud and tax evasion was signed by the european union and switzerland on 27 may 2015. the information covered by the agreement does not only concern citizens' income, for example in the form of interest and dividends, but also account balances and proceeds from the sale of financial assets. switzerland will apply stricter measures on data exchange under the agreement. tax administrations in the member states and switzerland will be better able to identify taxpayers, enforce their tax laws in cross-border situations and investigate suspected tax evasion. the agreement must be approved unanimously by the eu member states and the swiss parliament, after parliament has given its consent.
in writing. - i supported the report. from the outset, i fully supported the abolition of roaming charges, which were set in this report for june 2017, with their gradual reduction as from april 2016. at a time when, thanks to the free movement of persons within the european union, a large number of people live and work in another member state, it is only logical that high roaming charges for calls, messages or data should be abolished. at the same time, i believe that the abolition of roaming charges is an important step towards the gradual creation of a digital single market.
in writing. ‒ the report concerns an amendment to regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 on the prohibition of trade in instruments of torture. the european commission's legislative proposal reinforces the earlier decision of the parliament adopted in 2010. the european people's party welcomes the amendment proposal, as it is important to regulate and condition trade in goods which can be used for such purposes, while prohibiting goods which are not used for any purpose other than torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. customs authorities should be able to take effective action against market actors who are in breach of the rules. at the same time, we must ensure that these restrictions do not impede legitimate trade in such dual-use goods. it is very important to strike a balance between the legitimate interests of the operators concerned and the restrictions contained in the proposal. i voted in favour of the report.
‒ the main objective of the revision of the regulation in question is the elimination of the death penalty and the prevention of torture through more rigorous controls on the importation of goods used for torture and drugs used in lethal injection. this revision adds licensing controls on lethal drugs and prohibits the trade of such new items that are demonstrably used for torture by various government regimes.
‒ the european union is committed to the values and protection of universal human rights, including the rejection of the death penalty and torture as inhuman and degrading punishment. to this end, it is necessary for the union to strengthen controls and exports of goods and substances which may be used for these inhumane means of punishment. the introduction of controls and prohibitions on trade in such goods and services where there is a reasonable suspicion of their misuse and the introduction of a union general export authorisation in countries that have accepted commitments under the european convention on human rights and the international covenant on civil and political rights will strengthen the union's position and objectives in the field of the abolition of the death penalty and the prohibition of torture.
in writing. ‒ companies operating in the european union still trade in a wide range of equipment that can be used for torture or other ill-treatment of human beings, and i therefore welcome the report on the regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the provisions currently in force on trade in certain goods that can be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. i see it as a further step towards implementing the union's long-standing policy to abolish the death penalty worldwide and to prevent torture. but if this effort is to be credible, the eu must start with itself and prevent companies on its territory from profiting from human suffering. the statistics available so far show that at least 2 466 people in 55 countries were sentenced to death in 2014, with the number of death sentences and executions continuing to rise this year. we can't just be spectators in this situation. i call all the more for a combination of eu legislative, administrative, judicial and external measures to contribute to the prohibition of the production and trade of such goods.
in writing. - i think this report is pointing in the right direction again. the right direction, to which we are committed on the basis of the eu's fundamental values, which unfortunately has been violated by momentary economic and business interests. both at national and eu level. for example, it is often mentioned in public forums that the eu is receiving the nobel peace prize when its member states engage in intensive arms trade with dictatorships in third countries. our stand against the death penalty, against torture, against inhuman treatment is extremely important. however, the return of poisons for lethal injection shall be from the territory of the union. same thing if the tech support is coming from here. so this report is important because it aligns our political beliefs with the rules that are acceptable in business. congratulations to the reporter.
‒ according to an assessment by international civil society organisations, torture and ill-treatment still exist in 131 countries worldwide and the death penalty is still practised in 58 countries. i regret that this adverse situation is to a large extent subscribed to by the trade in certain goods which can be used for capital punishment, torture or other ill-treatment or punishment. i supported the resolution because i think the report is the right step and i believe that the right combination of eu legislative, administrative, judicial and external measures can prevent the trade in goods that can be used for torture or capital punishment. however, i expect that this report will lead to measures that will not only contribute to the protection of human rights but also create the conditions for effective controls and sanctions by the national authorities. i also believe that in order to strengthen european values, intermediaries in the union should be prohibited from providing intermediary services in relation to goods whose export and import are prohibited.
in writing. ‒ although the vote on the legislative resolution was postponed, i supported the commission's proposal as well as the amendments of the committee on international trade. i think this proposal has confirmed the clear condemnation of the european union's position on the death penalty and cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. in addition to the ban on trade in goods as defined in the proposal itself, i also supported the ban on transit, the provision of technical assistance and support, and marketing services, and, last but not least, i also voted in favour of a provision allowing member states to prohibit trade in and transit of goods which, although not explicitly mentioned in the proposal, may ultimately serve such purposes.
‒ the european union should play a leading role in global negotiations on combating tax fraud, tax avoidance and tax havens, in particular in relation to promoting the exchange of information. member states do not exchange their tax rulings sufficiently and are often unaware of cross-border tax rulings issued in another member state of the european union that could affect their own tax bases. the lack of transparency in tax matters is subsequently exploited by some companies in order to artificially reduce their tax contributions. the european commission therefore intends to introduce a new article in the existing directive defining the scope and conditions for the mandatory automatic exchange of information on cross-border tax rulings and transfer pricing agreements. this obligation extends to opinions issued during the 10 years preceding the date of entry into force of the proposed directive which are still valid on the date of entry into force of the directive.
‒ the european parliament is committed to combating tax fraud, tax evasion and the fair distribution of the tax burden to all citizens and businesses. a significant proportion of tax evasion involves the concealment of financial assets in financial institutions located mainly in tax havens, where, along with an opaque financial environment, the anonymity of company ownership and money in accounts is guaranteed. however, large financial cases involving tax evasion also concern eu-based institutions, such as the largest swiss bank credit suisse wegelin, which eventually went bankrupt as a result of a high fine. but eu governments are still cutting corners in the fight against tax fraud. this ultimately harms the economies and economies of the member states and of the union itself. the proposed council directive aims to step up the fight against tax fraud through the exchange of tax information and to introduce more transparent tax rules, which will strengthen taxpayers' legal certainty while contributing to an increase in the envelope for investment growth and jobs.
in writing ‒ i think it's natural for companies to pay taxes in the countries where they make a profit and to respect the laws of the country where they operate. a systematic and mandatory union-wide procedure such as the automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation aims to combat tax fraud and tax evasion, tax havens and to ensure greater transparency in this area throughout the eu. the commission proposed to establish a timetable for the provision of information on tax rulings, member states should issue quarterly reports on tax rulings and transfer pricing. it also proposed the creation of a secure central register to record information. the european parliament has tabled a number of amendments which could make this proposal even more efficient and bring more transparency to taxation.
in writing. ‒ the as regards the european parliament legislative resolution on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 2011/16/eu as regards the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation, i abstained from voting because the resolution contains several contradictory proposals. i strongly condemn tax fraud and the pursuit of wealth through unfair tax practices. on the other hand, the fight against fraud must not be a pretext for the eu to intervene unlawfully in slovakia's tax policy. that is a question of subsidiarity. each eu country must be able to determine its own conditions for foreign investors.
in writing, ‒ i have already spoken in this parliament, during the discussion of the annual report on taxation in march 2015, about the need to harmonise tax policies and to eliminate inconsistencies between national rules. i can state with responsibility that i remain a staunch opponent of tax evasion, tax fraud and tax avoidance. i voted in favour of the resolution because i am convinced that these proposals and measures can also be used to achieve an effective exchange and processing of tax information which will have a strong deterrent effect against the introduction of harmful tax practices. i am confident that by adopting these measures we will follow up on the conclusions of the european council of 18 december 2014 and make progress in the fight against tax avoidance and aggressive tax planning at global and european level. i expect member states to take sufficient measures to help remove any obstacles to the mandatory automatic exchange of information on binding opinions for the determination of the valuation method in order to effectively monitor the application of the automatic exchange of information.
in writing. ‒ fair competition is not possible without transparent information on the tax burden. the commission, as a neutral body, should have the right to intervene in cases of suspected favouring of one investor over another. at the same time, the principle of tax sovereignty at national level should be preserved.
in writing ‒ i did not support the motion as it unjustifiably includes tax rulings by courts which in no way concern cross-border transactions. the proposal thus unnecessarily increases the administrative burden and, moreover, poses significant risks in the area of personal data protection.
in writing. ‒ the artemis joint undertaking has addressed the problems identified in the first discharge report in a meaningful manner, as assessed by the budgetary control committee, strengthened the application of conflict of interest rules and transparency, and reviewed its internal control systems. thanks to that, the panel decided to grant the discharge, to close the accounts. that is why i supported granting the artemis joint undertaking an exemption.
in writing ‒ this report concerns the 2013 discharge for artemis.
in writing ‒ by discharge message the european parliament gives discharge to the executive director of the current ecsel joint undertaking, established in 2014, in respect of the implementation of the budget of the former artemis joint undertaking, established in 2007 for a period of 10 years, for the financial year 2013. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the following measures: after the court of auditors had approved the accounts and the conditions for the co-financing of the undertaking by the national authorities had been met, parliament found that sufficient assurance had been given that the operations carried out by the undertaking were legal and regular.
in writing. ‒ i voted in accordance with the principle that discharge for any part of the eu budget should follow only after the eu budget as a whole has received a favourable opinion from the european court of auditors.
in writing, i have supported the european parliament's motion for a resolution granting the 2013 discharge to the artemis joint undertaking. this undertaking was set up in december 2007 for a period of 10 years to define and implement a research plan for the development of key technologies for embedded computing systems in different fields of application, in order to strengthen the union's competitiveness and sustainability and to enable the emergence of new markets and societal applications. the joint undertaking started to operate autonomously in october 2009. the total financial contribution of the member states to the artemis joint undertaking was to be at least 1,8 times the union financial contribution and a non-monetary contribution from the research and development organisations participating in the projects equal to or greater than the contribution from the public authorities during the duration of the joint undertaking. the court of auditors stated that the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the year 2013 faithfully reflect its financial position as at 31 december 2013 in all material respects and that its operating results and cash flow are in accordance with the provisions of its financial regulation.
in writing. ‒ i support the creation of companies that aim to research and develop key technologies. such joint undertakings will help us to strengthen the union's competitiveness and sustainability and to enable us to enter new markets and create new societal applications.
in writing, given that the budget of the european union contains an unacceptable number of errors year after year, with the result that even the european court of auditors could not confirm its effective use, i voted against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ on 22 september 2015, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control voted on the second discharge report of the institutions that did not receive a discharge under the ordinary closure procedure, the committee decided to grant a discharge to the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) based in budapest. the union agency was assessed by the panel to have addressed the issues identified in the first discharge report in a meaningful manner, to have reviewed its procurement procedures and to have already implemented 18 of the 25 action plans. thanks to that, the panel decided to grant the discharge, to close the accounts. i supported the granting of the eit discharge at the european parliament plenary.
in writing ‒ this report concerns the 2013 discharge for the european institute of innovation and technology.
in writing ‒ the european parliament, on the basis of a report, gives a discharge to the director of the eit in respect of the implementation of the institute's budget for the financial year 2013, but the parliament made its observations in a resolution before forwarding the decision. in 2013, the eit failed to certify, for the second consecutive year, the legality and regularity report on its grant operations to the court of auditors. i am therefore pleased that the quality of the institute's audit certificates has improved since 2014 following the guidance of the court of auditors. the eit has improved its budget implementation procedures and introduced additional controls for grant operations to ensure a higher degree of assurance of legality and regularity. following the fulfilment of the conditions and instructions issued by the court of auditors, parliament approved the eit's accounts for the financial year 2013 and granted discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in accordance with the principle that discharge for any part of the eu budget should follow only after the eu budget as a whole has received a favourable opinion from the european court of auditors.
in writing, the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2013, has, for the second consecutive year, not found that there is reasonable assurance as to the legality and regularity of the institute's grant operations. according to the court, the quality of the good practices is in question as they are issued by independent audit firms hired by the grant recipients themselves and which cover approximately 87% of the grant expenditure. it is therefore good that the institute has introduced additional ex post controls for grant operations as a second level of assurance on the legality and regularity of grant operations. the institute also carried out 'on-the-spot' audits of around 40% of the grants paid under the 2013 grant agreements. the institute has improved its procurement procedures since 2013 and has taken a proactive approach following the court's findings of errors. the institute improved its budget implementation planning and monitoring procedures and took further necessary measures to improve its overall management. that is why i voted to discharge the institute for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the activities of the european institute of innovation and technology, because innovation and technology are an important part of our economy and only thanks to them can our economy thrive and compete with other world powers.
in writing. ‒ the eniac joint undertaking has addressed the problems identified in the first discharge report in a meaningful manner, as assessed by the budgetary control committee, and has reinforced the application of the conflict of interest rules. thanks to that, the panel decided to grant the discharge, to close the accounts. that is why i supported the granting of the discharge to the eniac joint undertaking.
in writing, this report concerns the 2013 discharge for the eniac joint undertaking.
by letter ‒ the executive director of ecsel has been granted a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, following the court of auditors' decision on the regularity of the annual accounts. however, it should be recalled that the court of auditors has issued a qualified opinion on the legality and regularity of the operations and the joint undertaking has put in place practical arrangements for ex post audits to obtain sufficient assurance. i am pleased that the company held a seminar on assurance in the presence of representatives of the court of auditors, the commission and other active representatives of the national funding bodies. i consider it important to note that the member states' contributions were below 1,8 times the union contribution and that the lower contributions were offset by higher contributions from the private sector. the commission shall carry out an evaluation of the activities of eniac up to the date of establishment of the ecsel tsi.
in writing. ‒ i voted in accordance with the principle that discharge for any part of the eu budget should follow only after the eu budget as a whole has received a favourable opinion from the european court of auditors.
in writing, the eniac joint undertaking was established on 20 december 2007 for a period of 10 years to define and implement a research plan for the development of key competences for nanoelectronics in different fields of application. the joint undertaking became financially independent in july 2010. the court of auditors has found that the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the year 2013 present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the joint undertaking as at 31 december 2013 and that the results of its operations and cash flows at the end of the year are in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules and with the accounting rules adopted by the commission's accounting officer. the joint undertaking has established practical arrangements for ex post audits as regards administrative agreements signed with the national funding bodies. these practical measures include the introduction of a specific report and are complemented by the evaluation of the national joint undertaking's assurance systems and visits of the national funding bodies by the court of auditors. i supported the motion for a resolution on the 2013 discharge for the eniac joint undertaking.
in writing. ‒ the development and support of joint ventures is important if we want the european union to be at the technological top of the world. therefore, i support the creation of such a joint undertaking focusing on the development of key competences for nanoelectronics.
in writing ‒ this report concerns the 2013 discharge to the european council and the council.
‒ the european parliament's draft decision not to grant the secretary-general of the council discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council and of the council for the financial year 2013 is based on insufficient transparency of projects in the field of real estate. all the institutions of the union have a democratic accountability to the citizens of the union and a responsibility for the implementation of their own budget. i regret that the council has not yet submitted the requested documents to parliament, given the need for good cooperation between the institutions and the democratic oversight that parliament ensures. i therefore consider it necessary to postpone the discharge decision, since parliament cannot take a qualified decision. i join the call to the council to provide a full written explanation.
in writing. ‒ difficulties have been encountered in the discharge procedures on a number of occasions. the european council did not cooperate with the european parliament and did not engage in an appropriate dialogue. that is why i voted against the discharge.
in writing ‒ i have supported the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the discharge for the 2013 general budget for the european council and the council for 2013, also drawing attention to the outstanding issues. in the resolution, we call on the council to submit progress reports on real estate projects and a detailed breakdown of the costs incurred. we also asked the council to provide a thorough written explanation detailing the total amount of the appropriations used for the purchase of the residence palace, the budget lines from which the funds were drawn and the instalments paid so far and to be paid. the council is to report on its administrative modernisation process, in particular as regards the specific implementing measures relating to this process and the expected impact on the council's budget. in the resolution we deplored the recurring problems in the discharge procedures, which arose from the lack of cooperation from the council.
in writing. ‒ the parliament's report draws lessons from the ebola crisis in africa in 2014. the ebola outbreak in sierra leone, liberia and guinea in march 2014 was the largest such crisis to date, posing a challenge to the african region concerned, but also to the international community and to european countries involved in the crisis management. the report looks ahead to prevent and respond to epidemics with high loss of life. to this end, the eu should strive to improve health systems in the future. it is necessary to lay down the conditions for a permanent european system with adequate material and human resources for immediate response. investing in health promotes economic development and is thus an important factor in poverty eradication. the report calls on member states to contribute to the establishment of the universal health fund (uhc) and hopes that the european development fund will also support the health systems of countries with fragile infrastructure through its investments. i supported the adoption of the report, in line with the aims of the report and the line of the people's party.
‒ sierra leone, liberia and guinea have been battling the worst ebola crisis in history since march 2014. it is clear that these three countries are not able to cope with the epidemic on their own and the people of these countries are placed in an extremely vulnerable situation. as a world leader in development, the european union has a special responsibility in establishing and improving the healthcare system in the countries concerned. if we are to successfully fight the ebola epidemic, it is very important that we also think about health development, investment in health and economic development in the affected countries. cooperation between the european union and the african countries concerned can only succeed if they develop rapidly in the economic and health sectors.
‒ the current extent of the ebola infectious disease epidemic in the african countries sierra leone, liberia and guinea demonstrates that these countries, given their economic and financial situation and, in particular, the state of their social and health services, are not able to cope with the situation without the assistance of other countries. it is therefore appropriate to review and redirect eu financial assistance to developing countries so that the funds provided are targeted at addressing the country's problems and are not misused for other undesirable purposes. to this end, measures should be taken to enhance control over the management of the aid provided and to allow timely intervention.
in writing. ‒ the in march 2014, sierra leone, liberia and guinea were hit by the worst ebola outbreak in history, and i therefore welcome the resolution on this crisis and consider it important to learn from it for the future. since time is of the essence, it is now necessary to identify the shortcomings in the health-care system there. if the european parliament recognises that women were more affected by ebola in these countries, accounting for 55 to 75% of the victims, let us address what led to this. they make up the majority of the medical staff, but the system lacks basic medical and protective equipment. worse still, even in areas not affected by ebola, fear of infection has caused people to refuse even routine medical treatment. women even stopped giving birth in hospitals. this has resulted in an increasing number of non-ebola-related deaths of women and children. i therefore call on europe to help these countries develop their own public health systems and infrastructure to ensure that all citizens have access to them. but let us not make part of the funding conditional on the focus on sexual and reproductive rights, as the resolution mentions, especially if they are understood only as access to contraception and abortion.
in writing. - i welcome the report. the european union must do everything possible to prevent a major epidemiological disaster of this magnitude in the future. lessons to be learned from the ebola epidemic it is very important to make international crisis management more effective. a quick response is therefore essential, for life is worth time. the ebola epidemic has had other long-term consequences besides the loss of thousands of lives. for example, the increase in orphans the huge number of children who have lost their parents, but their relatives are afraid to take them in because of the possibility of infection. affected children are often rejected from school, which can mean a complete break in their education. and in developing countries, education is the most important thing. we can't turn our backs on emergency relief. we're talking about countries where the population lacks basic hygiene practices. without proper water supply and sanitation, the spread of viral diseases cannot be prevented. the marshall plan can help develop a health and education system that can meet basic needs. we must not forget the measures we can take here in europe. this is what research and development can be, because the more we know about ebola and other viral diseases, the closer we are to developing antibodies.
in writing, the current ebola epidemic has already killed more people than any other in history, and i expect the affected countries to recover from it long after it has subsided. based on the numbers reported, the disease has affected more than 20,000 people, mainly from guinea, sierra leone and liberia, and from africa it has already spread to two other continents, where isolated cases have been reported. although some progress has been made in the fight against the ebola epidemic and considerable efforts have been made at eu level to contain the disease, i feel that much more could have been done in this area. i supported the resolution because i believe that the measures contained in the report can help to address the fundamental shortcomings and improve the sound management and coordination in the fight against the spread of the ebola virus. i was also pleased to learn that a new vaccine had been developed in record time and proved to be 100% effective. nevertheless, i expect member states, the commission and the international community to become more active in medical research and the production of effective medicines and vaccines against ebola and other emerging diseases.
‒ given that epidemics such as ebola are virtually inevitably a problem that transcends the borders of individual eu countries, i support a common approach to preventing and preventing the spread of similar diseases at european union level.
in writing. i personally share the view of the rapporteur, mr goerens, that access to medicines should not be conditional on the purchasing power of patients alone. and we saw, especially in the recent ebola epidemic, that if we leave the decision of what drugs to make to the economics and the market, it's like going to bed with a grenade under your pillow. in a globalized world, it's only a matter of time before someone somewhere pulls the plug. but i think the same rule should apply to european healthcare, including slovak healthcare. of course, medical research is expensive. the cost of developing a drug is multiplied by the huge investment in training top-notch experts without whom new drugs would not exist. but we cannot pass this cost on to those living in poverty.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on a common european strategy for the adriatic and ionian region. the individual countries of these regions share common cultural features as well as a common history and it is therefore important that they cooperate with each other in all areas, whether territorial, economic or political. the report identifies gaps and potential difficulties that may result in delays in the implementation of commitments relating to the single market and the environment. the report also looked at the promotion of blue growth, i.e. sea-related sectors, including sustainable fisheries, recreation and research.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution calling for an investigation into fraud committed during car emissions tests. joint european action is needed and an emission test is needed that is based on real, not laboratory data. we cannot afford to ignore the emissions cheating affecting human health or the negative events affecting the european automotive industry. all of this can be helped by improving the control and authorisation system.
in writing, following the volkswagen emissions scandal, the european commission must investigate very closely any potential manipulation of the approval process and tests by volkswagen, as well as other car companies. the european commission is obliged to take all necessary steps to improve and harmonise the emissions testing process to better reflect real-world conditions, which are often very different from the laboratory environment where the tests are carried out. it is very important that we continue to work on improving and refining the implementation and enforcement of european legislation, and thus eliminate any shortcomings it may have. deliberate criminal behaviour by any large and important company must not be tolerated, as it endangers the lives of the citizens of the member states, but also undermines their trust.
in writing, the emissions measurement scandals in the largest car companies in the eu have consequences not only for the economy of these companies, but also for the economy, economies and employment in all the member states concerned. deceiving consumers, endangering life and the environment undermines citizens' trust and increases doubts about sufficiently clear, controlled and verifiable union rules. i support the adoption of resolutions so that the commission draws conclusions from this unwanted situation in the form of measures to prevent fraud and abuse of consumer confidence, to establish clear rules and tougher penalties for non-compliance so as to prevent similar phenomena from occurring.
‒ the violation of the rules on emissions from volkswagen diesel vehicles, which was revealed by the united states environmental protection agency, casts a shadow on the control mechanisms of eu countries. the reputation of the automotive industry is threatened by unfair practices that could have been avoided if the emission limits for cars had been applied consistently. every customer has the right to choose his product, provided that he is provided with comprehensive and undistorted technical parameters. however, companies like volkswagen do not only threaten the end customer, but also many small and medium-sized enterprises that depend on vehicle sales. therefore, i believe that in the current situation, it should be agreed that the current test procedures used in the eu are not sufficient. any interference devices or tests that do not replicate normal driving conditions mislead consumers and reduce the competitiveness of the entire industry. practices that improve the results of emission tests, such as excessive inflation of tyres, removal of side mirrors or use of special lubricants, should not be tolerated by the authorities responsible for control. therefore, a proposal calling for the establishment of an independent approval authority would be worth considering, as there is no oversight of the testing activities of the national authorities. test procedures will have to be changed to reflect real driving conditions and to be used to measure all types of pollutants.
in writing. ‒ the emissions scandal is undermining confidence in the entire european automotive industry. in order to avoid similar problems in the future, the tests must be reliable and conducted under real-life conditions.
despite the new, unforeseen costs, we found a way and solutions to avoid having to increase the european parliament's budget beyond the figures we agreed for the spring. we need to focus now on collective solutions for higher growth and employment, a better quality of life for people. but also to address the vision that life is gradually bringing about in the form of the financial and economic crisis, the migration crisis, the conflict in ukraine, the greek debt crisis. we should not put obstacles in our way. today, 104 people in the commission and in the european parliament are fully occupied with answering questions put to the commission by members. it costs millions of euros a year. if every member acted like the statisticians, we would need an extra €200 million a year just for the commission's answers to members' questions. we've managed to narrow down a lot of issues, but the final solutions to the bureaucracy are still waiting for us. if we want to get europe up and running, we need the juncker investment plan. european finance must go to the projects with the highest added value. the implementation of the european funds cannot be delayed. the european union must pay its obligations on time. we need to get the digital market going, the energy union, reform the financial sector. half the world's financial transactions cannot flow through tax havens. we can't afford to make mistakes. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the eu's external borders are not blocked. the juncker investment plan also has risks. the way in which the director-general of the european fund for strategic investments was selected was at stake. the person responsible for the results should first have checked the candidates' abilities by conducting managerial and psychological tests. experience has shown that the financing of the european budget cannot depend on the political or economic situation in individual countries. a year later, the debate about own resources will culminate. this is a chance to solve the problems of financing the european budget.
madam president, in debates on this issue i often hear a lot of criticism toward israel, but only a little towards palestine. this surprises me. how come that a democratically—elected government gets nothing but criticism and an authority with a president who was officially chosen until 2009 and still is in function gets all kind of support? unfortunately, i notice as well that what mr abbas says abroad is quite contrary to his domestic statements. publicly, mr abbas is urging a renewal of the peace process. domestically, he awarded this week a cartoonist who promotes hate and violence. publicly, mr abbas said this week that the current situation is extremely serious and grave and that the young people have no hope. domestically, he promotes hate in the press and makes no effort to stop this violence or to give anyone hope. we need to unmask these lies from the palestinian authority. ms mogherini, will you force the authorities to stop the hatred against jews in the palestinian media, and the militant preachers who really stir up hate amongst the youth and the people of palestine? we need to stop this.
in writing. the report on the reform of the electoral law of the european union calls for a change in the framework rules applied since 1979, when the first direct elections to the european parliament were held. the eu treaties give parliament the right to initiate reforms of its own electoral procedure with a view to developing a procedure that is uniformly applicable in all member states or based on common principles. the reform also aims to strengthen the democratic legitimacy of the eu decision-making process. since the adoption of the electoral law, we have witnessed many political and social changes. the report highlights the changing forms of participation of eu citizens in politics and the increased visibility of political parties, and aims to give the european parliament greater legitimacy. i consider it important that the member states should establish different possibilities for participation in elections. the legislative provisions of my own member state, slovakia, allow for the time being only participation in the traditional way, excluding many citizens from the ep elections. this contributed to the lowest turnout in the last ep elections in the member state. the report welcomes the encouragement of member states to take measures to promote the adequate representation of ethnic, linguistic and other minorities in european elections. the proposed reform will bring the work of parliament and the members themselves closer to their constituents.
on the one hand, the european commission is fighting ammonia, methane and fine particulate matter, and on the other hand, it is supporting the agriculture that produces these emissions with 60 billion euros a year. the european commission is fighting against something it is also supporting. this is a perfect example of the incomprehensibility and inconsistency of the european commission. moreover, the european union is once again trying to save the whole world. he wants to be a global leader in environmental goals, he wants to save all the migrants who are passing by, he's been saving greece for years, and he wants the economy to grow and the debt to fall. this is irreconcilable. this is what only a disconnected euro-romantic can want. yes, we protect the environment, but the european union need not be at the forefront when it has so many other problems.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the eu budget for next year. the 2016 budget also included draft projects for which the european commission may call for funding next year. the projects approved include our joint project 'colourful europe' with gál king. the budget report voted on will make available €1 million from eu funds to applicants to finance minority programmes to support the elimination of discrimination. the proposal aims to support multilingual, cultural, educational and training programmes in european regions where the rights of national minorities are still neglected. the programmes are designed to improve the living conditions of different ethnic groups by helping to preserve the cultural and linguistic identity of minority nations. the project allows representatives of local authorities, civil and youth organisations, schools and the private sector to apply to organise various events and events aimed at maintaining diversity and eliminating discrimination at local and regional level.
in writing. ‒ the the draft general budget for 2016 contained a number of amendments calling for austerity measures and, in particular, for no increase in expenditure in the european parliament relating, inter alia, to buildings, travel and parliamentary assistants. although i support the idea of these proposals and the need to set priorities and eliminate the annual increase in expenditure on non-priority areas in the current economic situation, i could not support all of them. i therefore did not support the proposals put forward by the political groups, despite their content, whose political programme was absolutely unacceptable to me.
in writing ‒ the union is currently facing many serious challenges in many areas at the same time, which need to be taken into account in the eu's general budget for next year, which should remain an investment and growth-oriented budget. i am disappointed that it is the area of competitiveness for growth and jobs that has been hit by the council's sharp cuts again, with a reduction of eur 140.9 million in commitments and eur 435.4 million in payments. i also disagree with the cuts in economic, social and territorial cohesion, which are the main investment policy of the union aimed at reducing the often marked differences between european regions. the eu structural funds are helping regions to converge and create quality jobs. their adequate funding must remain a priority for the union. in conclusion, i would like to support parliament's decision to increase funding by eur 473,2 million for 2016 for the youth employment initiative and underline the need to implement programmes to combat unemployment.
‒ the eu budget should reflect the eu's political priorities. it is therefore important to allocate more financial resources to tackling the migration and refugee crisis. but the eu's priorities should not be forgotten, namely increasing competitiveness and growth through job creation, business development and entrepreneurship across the union.
in writing - i did not support the proposal as i do not agree with it in principle. the proposal before us would bring about a substantial increase in the budget of the european union, which in my view is totally unjustified. on the contrary, the eu budget would be helped by substantial cuts, especially in the area of the european funds and payments to farmers. this would allow taxpayers to use more money at their discretion, which would ultimately also contribute to sustainable growth and a reduction in unemployment.
in writing. the increase in the number of judges at the court of justice of the european union has been on the agenda for several years in order to deal more effectively with the constantly increasing number of cases. this proposal shall apply to the judges of the general court in the court of justice. the european council and the european parliament reached a compromise on the issue in the 2014 european parliament elections, and the european parliament adopted its own position on the issue in 2014. in september 2014, the italian presidency in the council requested a new draft proposal from the court of justice, because the member states could not agree on a system for the selection of judges, the proposed 12 judges could not have been appointed on a fair, national basis. the new proposal resulted in an agreement between the member states in the council, which was adopted by parliament's legal affairs committee. it provides for a gradual increase in the number of judges to a total of 56 and for a balance between the sexes and the nationalities to be maintained. this proposal was put to the plenary. the decision contains a review clause, which requires an impact assessment to be carried out after 5 years to assess whether the proposed solution fulfils the expectations, i.e. the processing of the backlog in order to achieve a balanced, rapid and professional legislation. as written, i voted in favor of the motion.
in writing. ‒ the court of justice of the eu points to the increasing average length of proceedings before the general court. it argues that the current number of 28 judges (one judge per country appointed by government agreement for six years) is not sufficient. the council therefore proposed to increase the number of judges to 56, two for each member state. this request came at a time when the eu institutions had agreed to reduce their staff by 5% and their expenditure by 0.5%. no proper legislative proposal has been submitted in this case, no consultative body has commented on the proposal, no analyses and impact assessments have been carried out. the number of judges has been increased by the number of judges appointed by the president of the republic. the court of justice has also been the subject of a number of judgments, including one in the general court, which was delivered in may 2014. it will be necessary to monitor the statistics of this institution on a regular basis and to evaluate productivity.
in writing. ‒ the speed of judicial proceedings before the court of justice of the eu appears to be decreasing and the number of pending cases to be increasing, due to the gradual expansion of jurisdiction and the number of cases brought. however, before considering the very complex question of increasing or even doubling the number of judges on the court, it is necessary to consider appropriate and effective measures, both from a procedural and organisational point of view. i therefore support the proposal to set up a joint committee of experts to examine the general functioning of the union judiciary and to make proposals for its improvement.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with the proposed increase in the number of judges of the general court and therefore did not support the proposal. the proposed increase in the number of judges is purely political and has no rational justification and, moreover, increases expenditure by eur 20 million per year, instead of striving for budgetary neutrality.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the report on the request of the european court of justice to increase the number of judges for the general court. although the reasons given by the court for its request, namely to reduce the burden on individual judges of the number of cases and thus to speed up the procedure, are understandable, i do not share the idea of supporting a proposal whose implications have not yet been examined. no independent study has been carried out to assess the need for the requested change. in my view, an impact study should be the basis for any objective decision on proposals.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament and the council agreed to transpose into european union law a number of recommendations of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean, which establish an appropriate framework for multilateral cooperation to promote the development, conservation, sustainable management and best use of living marine resources in the mediterranean and black seas at levels considered sustainable and with a low risk of depletion. as regards the question of how to grant derogations for the collection and minimum bottom diameter of red coral colonies, the european parliament succeeded in proposing a compromise text which states that member states will submit joint recommendations within 3 years, accompanied by detailed information on the national management framework.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal as it mainly involves technical changes.
in writing. ‒ the new proposal from the european commission to the european parliament for the use of genetically modified food and feed follows a non-gmo policy, which would allow member states to ban the use of genetically modified food and feed on their territory. despite the remaining shortcomings in the proposal, the european commission's proposal should not be rejected, but negotiations should be continued in a constructive spirit. the cooperative approach was also the basis for the creation of the law on the prohibition of public farming. if we don't give this proposal a chance to be debated, we may miss an opportunity that will not be followed by another. i did not support the report by mr la via rejecting the commission's proposal.
in writing. ‒ the genetically modified food and feed may be placed on the market for sale to consumers only if an additional authorisation has been granted. the tasks of the european commission and the member states are clearly defined in the existing legal framework of the european union. member states have been allowed to restrict or prohibit, under certain conditions, the use of genetically modified food and feed on their territory after those products have been authorised. such measures must be compatible with the internal market and the international commitments of the european union. in particular, national measures must be justified and based on compelling reasons which must not be contrary to a risk assessment. member states must provide substantial grounds justifying their exemption, while respecting the internal market rules and wto trade rules, in order to provide the necessary legal certainty and adequate tools for member states wishing to legally restrict or prohibit the use of genetically modified food and feed on their territory.
in writing. ‒ the proposed regulation appears confusing and could give rise to legal uncertainty because of the already existing arrangements, which also include the necessary measures of the member states and the commission in the field of gmos. the original regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 established a system in this area. it regulates the use and authorisation procedure of gmos on the markets of the member states in such a way that they do not pose a risk to human or animal health or the environment. it takes account of the eu's position as the largest importer of agricultural products. however, the placing on the market of gmos is preceded by a scientific risk assessment, the responsibility for which lies with the european food safety authority (efsa) in cooperation with the scientific bodies of the member states. this regulation also lays down measures that member states or the commission may take against the placing or use of gmos where the product is likely to present a risk to health and life. also in march 2015, a directive of the european parliament and of the council (eu) was adopted allowing member states to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified organisms on their territory.
in writing. ‒ however, the use of genetically modified food and feed is a matter of caution, mainly because we cannot yet say with certainty whether it will be beneficial to humanity. it should be said that the european union has the strictest regulation of genetically modified food in the world. it is therefore unnecessary to introduce regulations allowing member states to restrict or prohibit the use of genetically modified food and feed on their territory. moreover, the conditions for granting an exemption, which have been in force until now, have never been fulfilled. the safeguard clause has been invoked by states in nine cases so far, but in all these cases the eu scientific committees found that there were no grounds to change the original authorisation decision. moreover, the proposed regulation is almost impossible to implement as there are no longer any border controls within the eu agricultural sector. the reintroduction of such controls between member states would reverse the economic achievements of the european customs union and the single market. in addition, the dependence of union livestock production on genetically modified feed should be taken into account. the adoption of the regulation could result in a reduction of production in the eu and thus the need to import from countries with lower animal production standards than the union.
in writing. ‒ i am fundamentally in favour of the ambition that individual member states should have the right to decide whether they want to see food and feed containing gmos within their borders. in this case, however, i voted against the european commission's proposal. the commission has therefore decided to initiate the procedure laid down in article 93 (2) of the treaty in respect of the application of the principle of proportionality. for example, there is no impact assessment of the consequences of member states' decisions, and the proposal is practically unfeasible in its current form, as it is extremely difficult to prevent gm crops from entering the market in europe with today's air borders, once they are already on the market in a member state. i expect the european commission to put forward a more precise proposal.
in writing. ‒ i consider genetically modified food and feed to be experimentation and i am against their cultivation in slovakia. at eu level, i think it is important that each eu country has the opportunity to decide on this issue independently. however, i did not consider the content of the proposal submitted, concerning the possibility for member states to restrict or prohibit the use of genetically modified food and feed on their territory, to be sufficiently satisfactory and therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ genetically modified foods are highly controversial, and even among scientists there is no consensus on the subject. member states must therefore be free to decide whether or not to authorise their cultivation and sale on their territory.
in writing. - i supported the motion. i fully agree that the decision to use or not to use gmos is a matter for the member states themselves. however, i also share the rapporteur's view that the commission's current proposal contains fundamental problems and should therefore be recast.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the commission's proposal to revert to the restriction or ban on the marketing of gmos at national level, as this would have been a major step backwards in the field. in addition to the differences it would have created between member states, such a proposal would have had a catastrophic consequence: the weakening of the single market. the commission will therefore have to come back with a new proposal, one which is more in line with the expectations of european citizens and which does not undermine one of the foundations of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on this report. the commission proposal itself was complicated and in my view the vote did not allow for a clear statement of the position of members on genetically modified food. at the beginning of this year, we voted that member states should be able to ban the cultivation of genetically modified crops on their territory. i agree with this position and, given the diversity of views on this watched and controversial topic and the fact that the consequences of gmos on human health and the environment are not yet sufficiently studied, member states should not be denied the possibility to decide whether or not to grow, or place or not place on the market, genetically modified food as they consider necessary or risky for their populations.
in writing. ‒ the european commission's proposal aims to ensure safe food and thus protect consumers in the european union, while ensuring the functioning of the internal food market and promoting innovation in the food sector. the proposal seeks to provide a clear definition of novel foods, including new technologies that have an impact on food production. however, this proposal also has significant shortcomings, as the socialist and democratic group has pointed out. the regulation is outdated in its current form and the rules for novel foods need to be adapted to technological and scientific progress.
in writing. ‒ as the food sector is one of the most innovative sectors in the union's internal market, i welcome the regulation of the european parliament and the council on novel foods, as it is important that the legislation reflects new realities. according to some scientific forecasts, it is difficult to imagine that in the future it will be possible to feed mankind without gm foods, if we want to achieve at the same time an increase in the spread of organic farming. it is so likely that just as new forms of breeding have been established, genetically modified crops will be established as raw materials for food production. that is why i think it is important to set clear rules for this trend. however, i reject the cloning of animals in this context, also in view of the fact that a survey by the international food information council showed that more than half of consumers would not buy meat from a cloned animal and would even call cloning immoral. moreover, animal reproduction by this means is not much more advantageous than natural reproduction, and there are still many questions regarding the impact on human health.
in writing. ‒ accelerated approval of novel foods should respect all health standards. we cannot make the eu's citizens into guinea pigs. i think it would be better for us to return to traditional slovak foods such as milk, wheat or barley grains and also to raise rabbits, chickens and pigs at home.
in writing. ‒ the introduction of new foodstuffs on the european market is only permissible if their safety is unconditionally guaranteed and the consumer is sufficiently informed about their precise origin and composition.
in writing. - i supported the motion. i do not agree with the very existence of the current eu approval system for novel foods. however, the proposal makes the system more efficient, and thus brings a little more freedom and a little less administrative burden.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report on novel foods. as the current legislation dates from 1997, it is certainly necessary to update the legislation in the light of innovation. moreover, this report simplifies existing procedures on the one hand, and at the same time contributes to greater transparency on the other, thus clearly facilitating trade in novel foods and at the same time contributing to consumer protection.
in writing. ‒ the parliament's report supports the european commission's proposal for emission limit values for the six main air pollutants, namely nitrogen oxides, ammonia and methane, to be applied by member states. the eu's new emissions targets are a step in the right direction, and the eu is committed to achieving a high level of emissions reductions by 2020.
in writing. ‒ poor air quality is responsible for more than 400 000 premature deaths each year and the economic value to health systems in individual member states is in the range of 300-900 billion each year. more than 90% of the population living in cities in the member states of the european union are exposed to air pollution that is harmful to their health. in addition, the most vulnerable groups of the population, such as pregnant women, children and the elderly, as well as low-income groups, are also exposed to these negative impacts.
in writing. ‒ the directive provides a framework for the adoption of measures and regulations in eu countries' regimes to achieve climate change mitigation, air quality, public health and environmental improvements, which are among the union's long-term objectives. many member states do not comply with the standards and commitments they have made so far, delaying the achievement of the targets. this results in a deterioration in the health of the population and increases health care spending. the directive repeals and replaces the existing directive on national emission ceilings, sets measures for individual sectors and sectors of economic life and sets new emission ceilings for sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, ammonia and non-methane volatile organic compounds for 2020 and 2030. from 2020, it shall also apply to particulate matter. in order not to increase the cost of adopting the targets set, it will be necessary to focus on new and innovative ways of financing emission reductions.
in writing. ‒ the european air policy has a long history and has made significant progress, but the eu is still far from its long-term goal of meeting the recommended pollutant limits set out in the 2005 who air quality guidelines. i therefore welcome the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the reduction of national emissions of certain air pollutants. the aim must be to achieve air quality levels that do not have unacceptable impacts and risks to human health and the environment. today, poor air quality contributes to premature deaths, sickness absences, high healthcare costs and lost productivity, with the total external health-related costs to companies from air pollution estimated at between eur 330 and 940 billion per year. moreover, according to the oecd, by 2050, urban air pollution may become the leading environmental cause of death worldwide.
in writing. ‒ the right to clean air should be taken for granted. however, we must strike the right balance between protecting the environment and the objective of restoring industrial production, boosting economic growth and increasing employment.
in writing. ‒ the european citizens' initiative (eci) is the first instrument of direct participatory democracy in the eu, enshrined in the treaty of lisbon. the epc, better known by its acronym eci, is governed by a regulation, on which parliament has drawn up a report, taking account of the lessons learned in the first three years since its entry into force. as the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on petitions on the report to parliament, i have drawn up proposals which seek to overcome the limitations which have become apparent in practice. the instrument exists, but it must be acknowledged that it has so far been more of a disappointment than a success for eu citizens who want to participate actively in the union's activities. the technical, data-requesting parts of the regulation need to be simplified, and the fact that parliament is continuously informed by the commission of the citizens' initiatives received in order to ensure a balance between the institutions can also improve the effective functioning of the instrument. one of the main things and a call to the european commission to prepare for the revision of the regulation is to make it as easy as possible for eu citizens to access information on the citizens' initiative in more places and in more languages, preferably in their own language. the creation of the european citizens' initiative was a political decision, and it requires a strong political will to be able to take place and to function, which is why i voted in favour of the schöpflin report.
in writing. ‒ the european citizens' initiative is a tool that the european parliament has been dealing with since the early stages of its development. it is a great pity that the use of this institution by the citizens of the european union is decreasing year by year, given that 16 more such initiatives were registered in 2012, in 2015 it is only one. citizens and organisers of citizens' initiatives most often encounter obstacles and lack of support and awareness from society. the different conditions and forms for signing initiatives in the different member states of the european union remain a serious problem.
in writing. ‒ the european citizens' initiative did not fulfil its objective of increasing the activity of civil society and strengthening european citizenship, especially at transnational level. none of its 51 activities has led to legislation. the implementation of the european citizens' initiative activities has encountered a number of obstacles, which could however be overcome with appropriate administrative support. i therefore support the proposal that the commission, on the basis of past experience and knowledge, should undertake a revision of the european citizens' initiative regulation in order to remove obstacles and ensure transparency and institutional balance in the decision-making process, so as to provide greater support and assistance to this activity.
in writing. ‒ the european citizens' initiative was supposed to be a tool for european citizens to participate in public affairs and to strengthen their european citizenship, but unfortunately this tool has not yet fulfilled its objectives. i therefore consider it important to adopt a resolution on a european citizens' initiative which will change this situation so that citizens' opinions are never ignored again, as happened in the case of the one of us initiative, which calls for brussels to stop funding any practices that destroy human life before birth. the former manuel barroso commission vetoed it, despite it being supported by two million people in europe and becoming the largest petition in european history. the commission thus made a farce of the european citizens' initiative, while meps, on the contrary, wanted it to become a real instrument of participatory democracy. this commission decision was contrary to ethical and democratic requirements, so i welcome the fact that the european parliament recognises that the eu institutions and member states must take all necessary steps to support the european citizens' initiative and to deepen citizens' trust in this instrument, and that it regrets the lack of legislative impact and the dissuasive actions of the commission following up on successful initiatives.
in writing. ‒ i believe that strengthening participatory democracy is the key to europe's future, the guarantee of development. if we look at the evolution of democracy, from the ancient greek example of privileged people to the modern day example of the principle of universal participation, i think the path forward is clear. it's not enough to drag citizens to the ballot box. they need to be given much more power to make their voices heard, and if they are not, then the frustration will lead to demotivation, and fewer and fewer people will vote as a result. this participatory democracy is reinforced by the institutions of petitioning and citizens' initiative. i think the legislator's intention was clear when he regulated the latter. the system still doesn't work. the european commission seemed to fear that its comfortable bureaucratic system could be invaded from outside and that the right of initiative might be taken away from ordinary citizens. he doesn't like it when almost two million people line up for an initiative like the right to water initiative. this situation is untenable and the solution to the problem cannot be delayed. the delay increases the frustration and mistrust of brussels. i hope that this report will help us take concrete steps in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ the european citizens' initiative is a unique and innovative instrument of participatory democracy in the eu. it allows citizens to become an active part of the processes that affect them. i am convinced that this is another way of involving our citizens more in public affairs. it is important to simplify the way european citizens' initiatives work and also to increase awareness.
in writing. - i supported the motion. i agree with the measures presented, which can make the current possibility of a european citizens' initiative more effective and give it more weight. this is also one way of increasing the democratic decision-making capacity of eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ while the european citizens' initiative is a legal instrument of direct democracy in the european union, designed to allow citizens of the european union to be directly involved in the creation of new legislation on topics they consider important, the fate of previous citizens' initiatives suggests otherwise. of the 51 initiatives launched, only 3 were able to meet the requirements and unfortunately none of them led to a legislative proposal submitted by the european commission. i think that in this situation it is appropriate to ask what is the reason for the failure of so many civic initiatives. whether it's lack of awareness of the possibility, too complex or incomprehensible requirements, or other reasons. the report looks at the possible causes and also looks at how to make this legal instrument more serious so as to restore the confidence of the citizens of the european union in its effectiveness. i consider the views of at least one million european citizens on a given subject to be of such importance that they cannot simply and unjustifiably be ignored, or be ignored on the grounds that they do not meet overly burdensome administrative requirements. that's why i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ the adriatic and ionian region is home to over 70 million people and covers eight countries, including four eu member states, three candidate countries and bosnia and herzegovina as a potential candidate country. i voted in favour of the draft report in the plenary vote, as eusair provides a good opportunity for the countries of the region to promote sustainable development. the pillars and other priorities of the strategy promote economic development and job creation, which in turn contribute to the stability of the region.
‒ the adriatic and ionian region faces a number of common challenges, ranging from the complex political and economic circumstances resulting from historical events to the large social and economic disparities between the countries and regions located in the area. there is also the problem of completing the necessary infrastructure and connections for electrical cables. the ecosystem in this area is threatened and damaged by human intervention.
‒ the strategy aims to harness the potential of the adriatic-ionian region, which has a population of 70 million. it is based on four basic pillars under which development activities are proposed. the european territorial cooperation objectives establish a programme of adriatic-ionian cooperation for the years 2014-2020, which includes cooperation between eu member states (croatia, slovenia, greece and italy) and non-eu member states (albania, bosnia and herzegovina, montenegro and serbia). the strategy represents a significant step towards the integration of the balkan countries and their accession to the eu.
in writing. ‒ crossborder cooperation is a fundamental concept of the european union and the promotion and support of such cooperation. macro-regional cooperation is one of the most compelling forms of this. after two successful strategies for the baltic sea and danube regions, it seems clear that this project will be extended and additional macro-regions created. the adriatic and ionian macro-region, like the previous two, comprises a single geographical region which can clearly benefit from the single treatment. for the countries involved, this cooperation can bring many positive benefits, such as improved international relations, closer political cooperation, and specialisation in certain political and economic sectors. in the case of eusair, this macro-regional cooperation can contribute significantly to the multilateral development of countries not yet members of the eu and to closer cooperation with the eu. the strategy is broadly detailed in all four pillars and clearly covers the areas specific to the region and necessary for development. however, to ensure that the whole project does not lose its meaning, it is necessary to avoid the emergence of an unnecessary bureaucratic system and, at the same time, to insist on the establishment and maintenance of a multi-level governance of the macro-region based on the principle of subsidiarity, since local and regional actors are the most effective actors in matters affecting the region and their cooperation with other higher-level institutions can be the basis for the effective functioning of the region.
in writing. ‒ i support the eu strategy for the adriatic and ionian region (eusair). this strategy also draws on the experience of the eu strategy for the danube region. i support the link between tourism and fishing in the regions concerned, the more efficient use of eu funds, the diversification of tourism products and offers that overcome seasonality.
‒ i supported the proposal as it does not impose any new administrative or budgetary burden but only uses existing powers and budgetary resources to make their use more efficient.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on a common european strategy for the adriatic and ionian region. the individual countries of these regions share common cultural features as well as a common history and it is therefore important that they cooperate with each other in all areas, whether territorial, economic or political. the report identifies gaps and potential difficulties that may result in delays in the implementation of commitments relating to the single market and the environment. the report also looked at the promotion of blue growth, i.e. sea-related sectors, including sustainable fisheries, recreation and research.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy is a key instrument for achieving the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy. unfortunately, it is suffering from the effects of the economic and financial crisis. the revised europe 2020 strategy should be strengthened in its governance, using different layers of multi-level governance in accordance with the partnership principle. the importance of an effective mixed top-down/bottom-up approach in the member states within a multi-level governance framework should be emphasised. this includes the identification, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of the eu 2020 strategy through multi-level governance arrangements involving local and regional authorities, other civil society actors and stakeholders. it also needs to improve multi-level governance in order to achieve the europe 2020 objectives more consistently and effectively, not only at member state level but also at european level.
in writing. ‒ the the eu spends a third of its budget on cohesion policy. the achievement of the objectives was affected by a number of adverse factors in the past programming period, in particular the consequences of the economic and financial crisis, the lack of resources in public finances to co-finance innovative projects promoting economic growth and employment. i therefore consider that the report on the achievement of the objectives and targets of the cohesion policy and the europe 2020 strategy is well presented. what will be important for the coming period is what measures we can take to eliminate the shortcomings and mistakes of the past and how well, flexibly and qualitatively we are prepared to meet the challenges of the future.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy is one of the cornerstones of eu policy, which is why the strategy underpinning it needs to be a well-developed document. it should serve as a starting point, including not only plans but also concrete steps to pursue a cohesion policy that guarantees harmonious territorial, economic and social development. the 2020 strategy is also important because it must revitalise europe after an economic crisis and ensure its continued development. the five areas in which the eu wants the biggest changes in the strategy are well chosen, timely, relevant to the reality and priorities of the member states and the eu as such. but reality must be taken into account in detail and areas and objectives that actually contribute to development must be supported. however, this requires the implementation of cohesion policy based on the principle of subsidiarity, so that regional and local bodies have a strong say in the use of eu grants. a well-functioning cohesion policy can make a major contribution to successful european integration and improve trust in the eu.
in writing. ‒ the financing of eu cohesion policy accounts for one third of the eu budget and is the eu's main investment instrument. i think that cohesion policy should remain the main horizontal investment policy. i also consider it important to create synergies between cohesion policy and horizon 2020. that's why i supported this resolution.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy is the main investment and development policy. it is consistent with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. as we face the consequences not only of the economic and financial crisis but also of the migration and refugee crisis, it is all the more important to focus on reducing disparities between regions and reviving the economy. all energy and capacity should be used to ensure growth, increase employment, support small and medium-sized enterprises, and protect the environment and climate. the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives will thus bring the european union increased competitiveness and an improved position in the world economy.
in writing. - i abstained from the vote. i do not agree with the measures presented, which aim to increase the efficiency of redistribution in cohesion policy programmes as well as in other programmes. the problem with this redistribution is not just that it is inefficient, but that it is fundamentally harmful to the economy, since it merely shifts resources from productive citizens to less productive ones.
in writing. ‒ it is essential to remember the original mission and objectives of cohesion policy and its importance as a tool for preserving investment in european regions, especially in times of economic crisis and instability. it is unthinkable that regional or local authorities should be punished by reprogramming or by the suspension of funds to the detriment of their economic and social situation because of the failure to meet the relevant macroeconomic requirements at other levels of governance. in the current programming period, cohesion policy is closely linked to the strategic objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and to economic governance mechanisms such as the european semester. this means that, in principle, the partnership agreements and programmes introduced during that period should already be in line with the union's broader macroeconomic objectives, with the consequence that reprogramming under article 23 of the nsf should only be required in truly exceptional circumstances.
in writing. ‒ the as regards the european parliament's legislative resolution on the european structural and investment funds and sound economic management, and on the guidelines for the implementation of article 23 of the common provisions regulation, i voted in favour of the resolution, in line with the position of the cor. we must not forget the mission and objectives of cohesion policy and its role in safeguarding investment in the european union. while we need more effective economic governance systems, such systems should not be an obstacle to achieving the broader objectives of economic, social and territorial cohesion.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy is an expression of european solidarity. we should continue to work to reduce disparities between regions and promote balanced socioeconomic development. through cohesion policy, we also contribute to the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives, in particular to increasing competitiveness through the creation of quality jobs, business development and entrepreneurship across the union.
in writing. - i abstained from the vote. i do not consider the main problem with the european structural and investment funds to be merely the minor shortcomings or the way in which the redistribution system is set up, but i also regard the redistribution itself, which is intended to promote growth and employment, as a problem. given that every euro spent on growth comes from taxpayers' money, redistribution hurts the economy more than it helps it.
intelligent borders are a hugely important issue in the context of the events of the last few months. and as in other areas, whether it's a common asylum policy or other common solutions that we need to adopt at the european level, smart borders is the issue that the european union urgently needs to address. i agree with most of my speakers who have very clearly identified the problems for which smart borders are one of the solutions, how we can ensure the security of the citizens and citizens of the member states of the european union. i hope that we will be able to implement this issue as quickly as possible, so that perhaps from today's meeting we can tell the people in our countries that we have taken another step towards better protecting their security.
for the s&d group let me begin by thanking the rapporteur, mrs kinge gál, for the excellent work she has done on this report and for the very honest battle she has fought in the trilogue for the position of the european parliament. in this context, i therefore welcome the proposal in question, as it was the european parliament which on several occasions asked the commission to bring the existing legal framework of cepol into line with the lisbon treaty and the new ambitions set out in the european training scheme for law enforcement professionals. high quality training of law enforcement or crime prevention officials is essential to combat serious and organised cross-border crime and requires a modern and efficient cepol agency with a sufficient number of staff. the proposal for a new regulation on the reform of cepol comes at a time when the european union is facing new challenges in protecting its internal security. successful management will require the extension of the academy's powers and will not be possible without increased financial resources. the refugee crisis facing the european union and its member states has shown us all that the demand for quality police forces and cooperation between them within the member states must improve in the future if the european union is to be better able to respond to crisis situations and to protect its citizens. i therefore believe that cepol should be given sufficient powers to properly coordinate law enforcement training at european union level and to apply the principles enshrined in the law enforcement training scheme. this should include the identification of strategic training needs at european union level.
for the ecr group several member states, including unfortunately slovakia, have a serious problem. we are at the forefront of europe's long-term unemployment among people of working age. the bad news is that we're not going to fix this problem by directing the council. we will do so, in particular, by improving education or creating conditions for entrepreneurship and removing barriers for people who create jobs. but the council's guidance can alleviate the problem and that is precisely how it should be understood. as an effort to improve the quality of support services for the unemployed. let us also not forget that those who work directly with and trust communities in the field often achieve the best results in working with the unemployed. i will therefore encourage the involvement of such active mayors or motivated ngos in the integration of the unemployed, as well as calling on the member states to strengthen the quality and capacity of the human resources that help the long-term unemployed to integrate into working life.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is very moving how longterm unemployment is discussed here. but you have to look at the countries with the highest unemployment. this is in greece, in spain, in portugal - in countries with far too strong a currency. the eurozone and the european commission are trying to enforce this so-called internal devaluation. you can see that it's not working. the result is that whole economies are destroyed because they simply have a currency that is too strong. tens of billions, hundreds of billions of euros are spent to keep this far too strong currency, the euro, in these economies. it's like a straitjacket. the countries will have this high unemployment and also long-term unemployment as long as they have this strong currency.
the basic objective of the 2020 strategy, which has been in force since 2010, is to increase employment from 70% to 75%, the reality being 68. reducing the number of poor from 116 million to 96, the reality is 121. also, the increase in college-educated people to 40 percent, the result is that you can now sweep the streets with them slowly. the europe 2020 strategy has failed. europe would be no worse off today if there had been no strategy. it's also because the strategy has conflicting goals you want to reduce unemployment, while also raising climate goals and so on. commissioner, i suggest you forget about strategy and focus on more important matters. europe does not need this theatre.
i would like to thank in particular my colleague mr svoboda for his persistence in dealing with the issue of summertime. this administrative measure has been in place since the beginning of the last century. it's time to think about whether the arguments that were valid 100 years ago or in 2001 are valid today. i consider it doubly inappropriate that the commission should be ironic about parliament's initiative to start a debate on summertime. firstly, because officials are not here to make jokes about the proposals of members in official speeches, but also because it is the commission's direct duty to bring facts, analyses and concrete proposals to the public debate. i therefore fully support the questions put by my colleagues and ask the commission to give this matter its due attention.
in writing. tourism is a key sector of the eu economy, generating more than 10% of eu gdp and directly employing 13 million people. europe is the number one tourist destination in the world. this has a positive impact on the eu economy and employment. however, this sector of the economy also faces many internal problems, as well as external dangers, in particular terrorist threats. this requires the adoption of flexible measures that can address these problems while adapting this sector of the economy to new requirements and needs. the eu supports the development of tourism through a number of funds and projects. despite the growing importance of tourism as an eu policy, no separate chapter has been created for the sector in the eu budget to date. the financial resources for tourism thus come from other eu policies. the commission should therefore examine the possibility of creating a separate section dedicated exclusively to tourism within the next multiannual financial framework. this will contribute to transparency and better control of the funds spent on this sector of the economy.
in writing. ‒ the union urgently needs properly trained law enforcement agencies, law enforcement bodies that are able to respond quickly and effectively to challenges such as cross-border organised crime, cybercrime and terrorism at pan-european level. the existence of a modernised, efficient, autonomous and adequately staffed cepol agency is therefore essential. i voted in favour of the report because the new rules modernise cepol's legal basis and set out the institution's priorities. cepol should be able to provide training and trainers at union level.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament welcomes the european commission's proposal, as it has already asked the commission on several occasions to bring the existing legal framework of cepol in line with the lisbon treaty and the new ambitions set out in the european training scheme for law enforcement professionals. high-quality training of the staff of the authorities involved in the fight against serious and organised cross-border crime is essential and to this end it is important to build a modern and efficient cepol agency with sufficient staff and funding. the proposal for a new regulation on the reform of cepol comes at a time when the european union is facing new challenges in protecting its internal security. successful management will require the extension of the academy's powers and will not be possible without increased financial resources. cepol should be granted additional powers to appropriately coordinate law enforcement training at european union level and to apply the principles enshrined in the law enforcement training scheme.
in writing. cepol was established in 2005 as the eu agency responsible for training law enforcement officials in the member states. transnational and organised crime that crosses eu borders requires high-quality and effective protection, which requires training in line with the latest knowledge. the proposed regulation aligns the agency's legislation with the lisbon treaty, introduces new modern training schemes and strengthens the agency's coordination and support role in the field of law enforcement at eu level. cepol is funded by the eu, i.e. taxpayers' money. it is therefore necessary to check the efficiency of the expenditure of these funds. the committee on budgets therefore underlined the need for enhanced cooperation with other law enforcement authorities and, for reasons of greater efficiency and possible savings of resources and savings, proposed to temporarily limit the agency's current seat in budapest until 31 december 2015, with the commission presenting a cost and impact assessment by 30 november 2015 with a possible relocation of cepol's seat to the hague, where the cooperating europol agency is located.
in writing. ‒ the european police college is responsible for training and upskilling in the field of law enforcement. the proposed regulation modernises the legal basis of the agency to bring it into line with the changes introduced by the treaty of lisbon. cepol is thus to apply new principles and training schemes in the field of law enforcement, as the internal security needs of the eu and its citizens are constantly changing and evolving, and law enforcement authorities need to be able to respond adequately and promptly. i therefore welcome the proposal which will allow us to deal more effectively with the challenges of ensuring the safety of our citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the legislative resolution on the regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the european union agency for law enforcement training (cepol) and repealing and replacing council decision 2005/681/jha. effective cross-border cooperation between all relevant national law enforcement authorities plays a key role in the fight against transnational and organised crime. the proposed regulation modernises the legal basis of cepol and brings it into line with the changes introduced by the lisbon treaty.
‒ i supported the proposal, in particular because it makes crossborder cooperation more efficient, without interfering with the competences of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the european police college cepol. its main objective was to modernise the legal basis of the agency in line with the changes brought about by the treaty of lisbon. according to the report, while cepol's main structure and objectives will remain unchanged, the agency will focus more on a narrow number of topics related to crossborder cooperation within the european union, focusing in particular on law enforcement. as cepol works closely with police academies in the member states, for example by developing curricula for police academies, organising various training courses and seminars, and possibly staff exchange programmes, thereby contributing to their training and acquiring new knowledge and skills in the fight against cross-border crime, i consider it important to maintain and support cepol.
in writing. speculative securities financing operations in the non-banking sector are damaging to the eu economy and a source of risk in the current financial system, which is not clearly defined and regulated. the regulation introduces increased transparency through its requirements and measures (e.g. reporting requirements for all types of securities financing transactions). it can also be of assistance to investors themselves, while respecting the protection of fundamental rights, in particular the right to the protection of personal data, the right to respect for private and family life, the freedom to conduct a business and the right to property.
in writing. ‒ as the global financial crisis has revealed significant regulatory gaps, ineffective supervision, opaque markets and very complex products in the financial system, i welcome the sft regulation, whose main objective is to combat the development of trading activities based on sfts without proper supervision, including outside the regulated banking system. i agree that transparency is important so that the authorities concerned and all market participants are adequately informed about how the markets work and the extent and nature of any potential risk, which increases credibility. the recent past has shown that when confidence in the value of assets, the safety of counterparties and the protection of investors collapsed, there was a mass withdrawal of deposits on the wholesale market, which led to a sudden reduction in leverage and the need for public safety nets.
in writing. ‒ i consider the main function of the financial sector to be the channelling of capital to finance the productive economy, not the speculation of assets. the last global financial crisis, which occurred in 2007-2008, revealed excessive speculative activity, significant regulatory gaps, ineffective supervision, opaque markets and overly complex products in the financial system. certain banking and financial products and instruments need to be clarified and regulated.
in writing ‒ in the wake of excessive speculative activities in the financial sector, it is necessary to ensure effective supervision, transparency of markets, simplification of complex products and increased transparency of transactions. this will not only make the banking system more reliable and stable, but also provide greater protection for our citizens.
in writing - i did not support the proposal. it is based on the notion that the financial crisis of 2007-2008 was the result of excessive speculative activity, lack of regulation and supervision, and so on. but the truth is the exact opposite the financial sector is already the most regulated sector of the economy today, and the financial crisis was the result of excessive, rather than insufficient, central planning. the high regulatory burden represents high barriers to entry and therefore economic activities are concentrated in the hands of far fewer entities, which also increases the number of 'too big to fail' entities. the second problem is the moral hazard itself of bailing out 'too big to fail' financial entities. finally, speculative and unsustainable financial activities would not be possible on such a scale if the ecb and other central banks did not provide the market with cheap money at artificially low interest rates. however, the proposal further increases the regulatory burden on the financial sector and therefore ultimately exacerbates the problems mentioned.
in writing ‒ in addition, the commission has also provided information on the number of cases of unlawful or illegal acts committed by the member states in the context of the implementation of the schengen acquis, including the number of cases of unlawful or illegal acts committed by the member states in the context of the implementation of the schengen acquis, the number of cases of unlawful or unlawful acts committed by the member states in the context of the implementation of the schengen acquis, the number of cases of unlawful or unlawful acts committed by the member states in the context of the implementation of the schengen acquis, and the number of cases of unlawful or unlawful acts committed by the member states in the context of the implementation of the schengen acquis. however, i welcome the opening of informal interinstitutional negotiations on the draft general data protection regulation and the adoption by the council of a general guideline on the draft data protection directive. the data protection regulation and the data protection directive are essential to protect the fundamental rights of individuals and should therefore be seen as a package of measures to be taken simultaneously in order to ensure that all data processing activities in the european union provide a high level of protection in all circumstances.
in writing. digitalisation and electronic communications are both a benefit and a threat to society, as they can be used to abuse personal data, commit crime, international organised crime and spread terrorism worldwide. recent world events have shown that these resources can be misused even by the intelligence services of individual countries. this is a violation of citizens' fundamental rights and a breach of the rule of law. all of this requires the adoption of measures that create a precise and properly reasoned framework for controlling electronic surveillance in a way that does not infringe legitimate rights. i support the commission's proposed measures and actions in this area. however, it is important to emphasise that any measures must comply with laws, international treaties and conventions, must protect the fundamental rights of citizens and must not harm the interests of the rule of law.
in writing ‒ i voted against the motion. i fully agree with the need to respect citizens' privacy and respect their rights also in electronic communications. however, the proposal goes beyond the competences of the european union and the principles laid down in the eu's founding treaties, according to which national security and intelligence are the competence of the member states.
in writing ‒ economic forecasts for the year ahead suggest an economic recovery with positive growth rates, rising inflation and an improvement in the fiscal outlook, also in the light of significant fiscal efforts and structural reforms in many member states. nevertheless, the economic and financial situation and the employment situation in the eu will only improve with ambitious structural reforms. the high unemployment rate in several member states remains a very worrying factor. flexible labour markets play a key role in combating unemployment and a shift from labour taxation to other sources should also be made in the future.
in writing. in its 2015 country-specific recommendations, the commission recommended four main priorities for economic growth: boosting investment, implementing structural reforms in product and service markets and labour markets, fiscal responsibility and improving employment policy. the current situation demonstrates that the rate of implementation of these recommendations by member states is low, which ultimately translates into high unemployment. measures should therefore be taken to increase the involvement of national governments and parliaments in these areas so that the fulfilment of the tasks set, the provision of support and the creation of adequate transparent conditions by member state governments and union bodies lead to increased competitiveness, economic growth, increased employment and a better quality of life for citizens throughout the eu.
in writing ‒ the priorities identified by the commission for 2015 include promoting investment, implementing structural reforms, fiscal responsibility and increasing employment. i am pleased that we are seeing some recovery in the eu economy. however, the high debt ratio, the lack of competitiveness in many areas and, in particular, the low level of investment remain a persistent problem. it is necessary to recognise the importance of linking the inflow of investment into the market, in particular into the services sector, with the creation of new jobs in the union, as well as the importance of implementing ambitious structural reforms, which many countries continue to delay. in conclusion, i would like to stress the importance of the member states' readiness and willingness to cooperate more closely in the implementation of the european semester.
‒ i am very pleased that the european union has focused on strengthening investment, implementing structural reforms in product and service markets and labour markets, fiscal responsibility and improving employment policy as key priorities for economic growth. it is important to achieve the objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy, as they can make europe more competitive, thereby generating economic growth, increasing employment and promoting entrepreneurship across its territory.
in writing - i did not support the report. i agree with the calls for improving competitiveness and implementing structural reforms. however, i strongly disagree with many of the measures proposed or welcomed in the report that would harm the eu economy, such as greater integration of the euro area, the european fund for strategic investments, programmes to promote youth employment and so on.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament resolution on the integration of the long-term unemployed into the labour market made recommendations for the next european council on employment policy to address long-term unemployment. the main novelty of the decision is that the union recognised the need to address the situation of more than 12 million european citizens who have been out of work for a long time, and half of the unemployed now fall into this category. their number and proportion have increased significantly in recent years, particularly as a consequence of the financial and sovereign debt crisis. the decision lists eu member states with a particularly severe employment crisis, including portugal, croatia, spain and slovakia, alongside greece. the decision deals with the proper reintegration of the unemployed, the need for on-the-job training programmes and the need for close cooperation between the commission and the member states' bodies and organisations to improve the situation of the unemployed and create jobs. i voted in favor of the resolution.
in writing ‒ the effective fight against long-term unemployment requires the cooperation of all parties involved in the reintegration of the long-term unemployed, including civil society, in this process. it is essential to pay attention to all long-term unemployed, including those who are not registered, and not just to those who have been unemployed for 18 months or more. i consider it essential that member states' policies to tackle short-term and youth unemployment should be fully aligned with those to tackle long-term unemployment. it is therefore essential that member states link the financing of their national policies to tackle long-term unemployment from european union funds, in particular through the european social fund, with corresponding national funding.
in writing. long-term unemployment affects 12 million people, or 5% of the economically active population in the eu, with large differences between regions of the union. long-term unemployment has negative consequences for the economy of countries, but above all for the deterioration of the quality of people's professional and private lives and for their social exclusion. i therefore support the commission's proposal to draw up recommendations for the integration of the long-term unemployed into the labour market and to promote the creation of sustainable and quality jobs, while ensuring continuous monitoring of the implementation of these recommendations.
in writing ‒ long-term unemployment is a pressing problem in many european countries, as well as in slovakia. it is important to find solutions to combat this problem. i support the main elements of this proposal, namely the ambitious strengthening of the registration of the long-term unemployed, the assessment of the individual potential, needs and job preferences of the long-term unemployed, the provision of a specifically tailored, balanced and comprehensible 'work integration agreement'. however, i believe that we should also fight unemployment by promoting entrepreneurship and creating better conditions for new businesses, start-ups and entrepreneurs.
in writing - i voted against the motion. the proposal contains a number of measures which will make the problems of unemployment even more acute in the long term, such as calls for greater redistribution to programmes to combat unemployment, a call for greater initiative by public authorities to help the unemployed find a job, a highlighting of current programmes to combat unemployment, and so on.
in writing. ‒ this clear text is what the european union needs to combat longterm unemployment among young people. the scourge of unemployment is affecting too many young europeans and, beyond the economic cost, it is a human tragedy that cannot be accepted. the report rightly calls for a rapid response to the newly unemployed, so as not to allow them to sink into longterm unemployment. by recommending a rapid assessment of their potential and needs, and by proposing a suitable and balanced vocational integration agreement (including the use of non-governmental organisations with a good knowledge of the subject and already working with longterm unemployed), the report proposes concrete ways of combating this scourge.
in writing ‒ any regulatory framework for the safe use of remotely piloted aircraft systems (rpas) in civil aviation must be appropriate to allow the sector to grow and avoid placing an unnecessary burden on the emerging industry. in addition, each framework must seek global acceptance in order to stimulate research and development. it is therefore important in the future to approach rpas as new types of aircraft requiring appropriate regulations based on the risk of each operation, to develop european union rules for the safe provision of rpas services so that the industry can invest, and to develop technologies and standards to allow for the full integration of rpas into european airspace and, not least, the positive public acceptance that is essential for the future growth of this sector.
in writing ‒ rpas technology, commonly known as unmanned aircraft or drones, is seeing success and rapid growth in commercial and recreational applications. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the technology is not compatible with the internal market. the rpas market is currently very promising and there are many possibilities for its expansion. the potential for economic growth is constantly growing and we must therefore ensure that europe takes the lead and remains competitive. however, a clear legal framework must take into account the imperatives of security and the protection of privacy and personal data.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. drone production and sales have increased dramatically in the last two years. this market segment has a high potential for growth and therefore national and european legislation needs to address the rules of use, safety and protection of privacy of people.
‒ i supported the proposal as i believe it represents a good compromise between regulating the potential risks associated with the use of drones and the opportunities for developing this sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the unmanned aerial vehicle (civil drone) sector is a job-creating area in which the european union excels. it was therefore necessary to move up the gear by approving positive legislation on this matter which would allow the eu to maintain its leading position in the world while laying the foundations for global legislation which reflects our convictions. it's a done deal. the text strikes the perfect balance between encouraging entrepreneurship in this area and protecting citizens (mandatory identification of all drones).
in writing. ‒ the this first-ever report by the european parliament on unmanned aircraft, or drones, is, among many other things, proof that the european union's legislative bodies are concerned with technological progress, which is logically taking place in many areas and which, in the interests of a uniform approach, should be adapted at european level. in recent years, interest in these drones has grown rapidly. in slovakia alone, unofficial figures say as many as ten thousand units. drones are widely used not only for professional purposes, such as monitoring rail lines, dams, power plants, or professional photography of major events, but many use drones for sports or other recreational purposes. on the other hand, uncontrolled use of drones can lead to serious interferences with privacy. this report, in my view, balances both areas. it promotes the growth of industry and trade in this area, does not impose a disproportionate burden on producers, small and medium-sized enterprises, but at the same time protects the public interest, security as well as the right to privacy. it also modifies some technical aspects of the use of drones, for example by removing the duplicity in the authorities responsible for authorising the use of drones, which operated according to the weight of the drones. that's why i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ tourism plays a vital role in the life of the european union, a key growth potential area of the european economy, contributing 10% of the eu's gdp. some 13 million jobs are directly or indirectly linked to tourism across europe. the report aims to identify areas where more attention should be paid and outlines how to contribute to maintaining competitiveness, preserving jobs and promoting europe's favourite places, to help jointly market european tourist destinations and to promote responsible and sustainable tourism. the report also notes that europe is facing increasing competition on a global scale, as masses of tourists from emerging, cheaper third countries are attracted. europe must first and foremost showcase its diversity and its incredible cultural heritage in this competition. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
‒ in recent years, tourism in the european union has had to cope, above all, with rapidly growing competition from outside europe, often from much less expensive countries. this is one of the reasons why, in the absence of a common policy, the promotion and development of tourism in europe requires at least some degree of coordinated action, which the european commission should seek to achieve by means of a however, the significant reduction in the number of its staff dedicated to this area signals that tourism is unlikely to be a priority in the near future. this cannot be considered good news, especially as tourism is of irreplaceable importance in terms of promoting sustainable economic growth and increasing employment. the european commission's actions in this area are incomprehensible, since the forecasts for the increase in the number of tourists within each member state in the following period are positive, but it should not be forgotten that tourism is a sector that is very sensitive to various fluctuations and crises, and it is therefore essential to maintain the necessary competitiveness. this requires, in particular, a focus on quality, the development of the digitalisation of the services provided, but also the improvement of accessibility of different modes of transport, including facilitating access for disabled passengers.
in writing. ‒ with the process of globalisation progressing, the tourism sector is also facing increasing global competition from new, less expensive countries that attract foreign tourists. i therefore welcome the report on new challenges and strategies to promote tourism in europe. the old continent must use its comparative advantages in the face of this competition, in particular the diversity of countries and the exceptional cultural wealth, which also concerns slovakia. the renewed eu tourism policy also expects a rise in spa and health tourism, but also in exploration tourism based on the cultural and natural heritage, where our country also has something to offer. however, i would also like to stress the importance of an effective and thoughtful approach to achieving this goal. while the commission proposes to build a 'destination europe' brand, several tourism organisations in the member states have expressed their concerns about the possibility of combining diversity and a common brand. i therefore consider it important to take these views into account, although i agree that the commission should continue to ensure the best possible support for the common promotion of europe in third country markets by adding european and transnational added value to current national promotional efforts in the field of tourism.
in writing. ‒ with the opening up of the world and the great development of other continents, european tourism has been given great rivals. today, it is very easy to travel inexpensively to faraway places where you can learn about other cultures. if europe is to remain competitive in tourism, it must take advantage of the old continent's diversity, the fact that it can visit many countries in a short time, explore many cultures and landscapes. to exploit this, we need to strengthen the continent's common tourism policy, which can be achieved by member states coming together and looking at areas that have a positive impact on this area. the first step in that direction is to accept this initiative.
‒ tourism is a key sector of the european economy, generating up to 10% of eu gdp. it has provided employment for up to 13 million citizens. it is important to promote tourism as it creates jobs, generates profits and is an important activity for the social and economic development of regions and eu countries. however, more attention should be paid to smes and family businesses, as they also play a major role in this development.
in writing. ‒ tourism in europe, which may seem a secondary issue, is nevertheless a sector that we must look at seriously. europe is the world's leading tourist destination and enjoys a high level of employment for millions of its citizens. as a sector with a promising future for europe, tourism must be supported and continue to develop in a qualitative way (taking into account sustainable and responsible aspects), thanks in particular to the new technologies that are taking an increasingly large share in the sector. if europe is to remain the world's leading tourist destination, the european union must take this sector seriously. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - i did not vote for mrs de monte's report. of course, the idea of promoting tourism in europe is important, but it is equally important to preserve the cultural diversity of the individual countries of the european union. i believe that tourism in the european union can be promoted without the need to create a so-called 'destination europe' brand, which in itself evokes the idea of a single destination, without emphasising that individual countries have something to offer in this area. this principle is further reinforced by proposals to create special thematic routes, tours or products.
in writing ‒ the tragedies of air france flight af447 and malaysia airlines flight mh370 have highlighted the need to introduce new systems to continuously locate public transport aircraft, including in remote locations. these systems will improve the efficiency of search and rescue operations and investigations, as current flight tracking systems cover only around 30% of global airspace. it is therefore necessary to support the european commission's efforts to rapidly establish a global performance-based flight tracking system that will enable air navigation service providers to continuously determine the position of a passenger transport aircraft.
‒ i support the efforts put forward to make flight recording systems more efficient, which can increase the safety and efficiency of air transport.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european union has always been very talented in making great plans. not only the european semester, but also the europe 2020 strategy, is a bright future. only, the reality is different and mostly sobering. their plans are unrealistic and therefore useless. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the programme. there's real damage to be done. or your fine plans for debt, which are in contradiction with the monetary policy of the european central bank, which is flooding the southern countries with money, and france is always going to go into debt instead of reform. you're a regular here. what europe needs are principles, not plans! for example, less bureaucracy, the same standard for all and adherence to your own rules - that will bring much more for the future!
in writing. in my view, structural reform and compliance with the rules of the stability pact are in particular needed.
the aviation industry is a major employer with an important impact on the development and growth of the european economy. some 10 million flights are made over europe every year. about half a million people are employed in this area. increasing the competitiveness of the sector is therefore essential. the proposed measures should aim at improving the functioning of the single market for air transport in europe. it could possibly be extended to some other countries. it is also important in liberalisation to genuinely guarantee the high quality of the enforcement of existing consumer rights of passengers. this concerns, for example, financial compensation for significant flight delays or for lost or damaged baggage. the new rules should also concern the safety of air passengers. however, in the interest of improving safety, they should not lead to inconvenience to passengers at airports, as the situation of passenger rights at some european airports is sometimes indeed very bad.
in writing. other the trust funds focusing on the syrian crisis and on stability in africa are instruments through which the european union can take concrete and effective action to address the migration crisis and the tragic situation in north africa. these funds will enable the implementation of vital programmes that may be able to sustain the people of the countries concerned by supporting the creation of better living conditions. member states should understand that by investing in the stability funds for syria and africa, they are contributing to addressing the root causes of the migration crisis. it's not enough to have populist political talk about what our humanitarian duty is to take in who and when, and how we need to protect our daily lives from the masses of immigrants. concrete action is needed, and these two funds provide the tangible solution. we can save lives from embarking on dangerous journeys and prevent conflicts within our own borders. i therefore urge the member states to dig deep into their pockets and make these funds budgetary viable as soon as possible. life wins over time... so by dragging it out, we're just cutting the tree underneath us.
for the ecr group. thanks to the case of former mp and vice-chairman of the human rights committee of the national council of the slovak republic vladimír jánoš, the topic of violence against women is now resonating in slovak society. mr. janos, who is accused of abusing his wife, is being prosecuted in the open. and even though it's been more than six months since the indictment was filed, the case has not moved. similarly, little has changed in the protection and assistance of battered women, who receive little media attention. despite strong words from top government officials about taking effective action after the case was made public, it remained promises and cosmetic treatments. free legal aid for women is still unavailable, victims of violence continue to complain about insensitive and unprofessional procedures of the police, prosecutors and courts, the state system of funding crisis centres for abused women does not exist. the result is that victims of violence have no trust in institutions, nowhere to run from their abuser, suffer in silence. and why am i telling you all this? i say this because the non-profit organisations supported by the european daphne programme are often the only straw that can be used by abused women. because these are the organizations that provide psychological help to women, accompany them to the doctor, to the police, help them find safe housing. it is these organisations which, within their means, at least from time to time, train a section of experts. daphne is a very important program. it is the euro that counts, and i therefore appeal to you, commissioner, to do everything possible to ensure that there are enough resources to be distributed as best and as simply as possible among those who know how to do their job properly.
in writing. ‒ interoperability progressively improves the potential quality of public services and creates an environment that allows for greater competitiveness of businesses and greater satisfaction of citizens. it is therefore a strong ally of the european strategy for growth and jobs. i therefore welcome the efforts of the european commission to ensure that the new isa2 programme reflects the technical progress achieved, the new needs of public authorities and civil society, but also the new opportunities that the development of cloud computing brings. the european commission needs to better inform civil society about the benefits of isa2 in the future, as several surveys show that citizens know very little about its predecessors.
in writing. ‒ a european union without internal borders and the development of electronic communications and the digital society also require effective electronic cross-border and cross-sectoral cooperation between european public administrations and their interaction with citizens and businesses. this naturally increases the demand for open access to data, its rapid processing and re-use. the aim of the interoperability project is to improve, accelerate and streamline the delivery of public services to citizens and businesses and to promote seamless cross-border and cross-sectoral interoperability between public administrations. in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, this issue needs to be tackled as a matter of priority and in a unified manner by the eu institutions and bodies. i support this project on the grounds that it needs to be designed and implemented with privacy and security in mind for public authorities, businesses and citizens.
in writing. ‒ exploiting the potential of interoperability within the eu will go a long way towards overcoming the digital barriers that still exist between member states in the business, administrative and public spheres. the programme for promoting interoperability solutions not only ensures the effective sharing of data, experience and best practice between member states, but also has the potential to bring about a lot of qualitative change in the long term. it clearly contributes to the cohesion of the european union, to the strengthening of the internal market and, last but not least, to the ability to meet new challenges. good and close cooperation is the basis for our competitiveness and sustainability. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the participation of third countries in union programmes in the field of research and technological development, in particular in the framework of the european research area. however, it should be borne in mind that many interoperability solutions involve the processing of personal data, and therefore compliance with eu data protection standards is unavoidable in all cases.
in writing. in voting on the european parliament's legislative resolution on the proposal to establish an interoperability solutions programme for european public administrations, businesses and citizens (isa2), i voted in favour of the proposal presented. the isa2 constitutes a continuation and adaptation of the previous union programmes in this field. it is important that we continue to modernise european public administration. the innovation of the interoperability system is also necessary to implement the effective and efficient implementation of existing common eu policies.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution because interoperability as a means of modernising the public sector is very important. the modernisation of public administration must continue, with a particular focus on e-services such as e-government, e-health, e-invoicing and e-procurement. the subsequent provision of interoperability between these services will lead to more and better digital services for citizens and businesses across europe, as well as cost savings and increased efficiency, transparency and quality in the public sector. the interoperability of egovernment requires not only system compatibility (m2m solutions) but also the capacity of public administrations to work closely with information systems and to inform the public about the possibilities offered by such systems. the isa2 programme must therefore also take into account the building of human resources capacities, both in terms of digital skills and language skills.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal and welcome the efforts to make interaction between eu public administrations more efficient, as well as between public administrations and businesses and citizens.
in writing. ‒ the report on the reform of the electoral law of the european union contains proposals with which i agree, in particular with regard to making it easier for eu citizens to participate in elections. such is the proposal to member states to promote the adequate representation of citizens belonging to ethnic, linguistic and other minorities in european elections. however, the report on electoral reform may also indirectly envisage constitutional amendments in member states, which may infringe the principle of subsidiarity, by proposing several amendments. although the treaty of lisbon allows the european parliament to determine its own electoral procedure, changing electoral procedures remains in many respects a competence of the member states. i therefore abstained from voting on the report.
in writing. ‒ the replacement of the leading candidates for president of the european commission with the leading candidates of the european political parties in the 2014 european parliament elections can be seen as a step in the right direction. turnout in the only direct elections to all the institutions was extremely low, to the point of embarrassment, in most member states, and in slovakia it was only 13%. citizens have given us a clear signal that they have lost interest in the functioning of the european institutions and that many of the actions of the european institutions are not understood and are not seen as correct. i therefore welcome the changes to be made through the reform of the european union electoral code, which should bring about an increase in participation in the elections to the european parliament and also increase the awareness of the citizens of the member states of the functioning of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the proposal is based on the treaty on the functioning of the eu. the treaty gives the ep the right to start reforming its electoral procedure. the aim is to develop a uniform procedure or a procedure based on principles common to all member states. it proposes more uniform and transparent rules for the conduct of campaigns, the conduct of elections, the possibility of electronic voting and other measures to make the management and conduct of elections more efficient, while strengthening the democratic character of elections, increasing electoral equality for eu citizens and thus strengthening citizenship. the council must act unanimously on these proposals.
in writing. - this report is long overdue. the willingness to participate in ep elections is showing a downward trend. in my country, slovakia, the situation is perhaps the worst, with just 13% of those eligible voting in the last election. this shows how far brussels is from the citizens, how little they feel that eu policy is their own business. the causal relationship can be discussed at length, since on many occasions, for example, the member states have tried to present the eu as the cause of all the evils on the domestic policy platform, but i think that a good electoral system can help a lot in this regard. there is no doubt that the introduction of electronic voting, for example, can bring great advances. in our fast-paced world, this is the way forward, and we're just wasting time if it's not implemented soon. i also believe it is important to improve the visibility of eu policies among citizens. we could achieve much more if european parties and politicians were better known. i hope that the recommendations in the report will soon be translated from the paper to the practical.
in writing. ‒ i consider the principle of subsidiarity to be one of the key principles of the eu, and when i proposed a european parliament resolution on the reform of the european union's electoral law, i considered that the significant strengthening of the identification of a candidate by european political parties was a very problematic proposal, particularly in terms of defending the principle of subsidiarity. this is an artificial attempt to suppress national political parties, which are clearly more important in the minds of eu citizens than european political parties with which people do not identify. i also considered it absolutely inadequate in the proposal to re-enforce the gender agenda. i don't think it's appropriate for it to be part of electoral reform. for these reasons, i voted against the adoption of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ given the fact that participation in european elections is steadily declining and elections represent the highest level of democracy, where voters are free to decide who they support and who they choose as their representatives in the european parliament, it is necessary to consider a possible reform of the eu electoral law. although i do not agree that young people should have the right to vote from the age of 16, i supported many of the proposals because the elections to the ep vary widely between member states. there are no uniform deadlines for submitting candidates, no uniform thresholds for optional membership, different forms of involvement in the campaigns of different political parties... in some member states, meps may hold more than one elected office, in others this is incompatible. since the next elections will be in 2019, there is a need to reform the electoral procedure in time to increase the democratic and transnational dimension of the elections to the ep and the democratic legitimacy of the eu decision-making process, to strengthen the notion of citizenship of the union, to improve the functioning of the ep and the governance of the eu by making the work of the european institutions more efficient.
in writing. ‒ i see in this change the possibility of increasing the legitimacy of elected representatives. it also gives eu citizens outside the eu the opportunity to vote and to use the electronic voting system.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the proposal as it significantly and unnecessarily interferes with the competences of eu member states.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the motion for a resolution on the reform of the european union electoral law. the elections to the european parliament and their legislation vary from one member state to another and, despite the gradual convergence of systems, there are differences between member states as regards thresholds, different election dates and the minimum age of voters. although i agree that the 1976 electoral act requires certain changes related to technological progress as well as to the effort to bring the european parliament elections closer to the electorate, thereby increasing their interest in these elections, the proposal contained many provisions which i could not support. in my view, there is no need for a uniform electoral procedure throughout the european union. i think that decisions such as the timing of elections or the deadlines for drawing up electoral lists should be left to the member states. i also oppose lowering the minimum voting age to 16 which would, for example, in slovakia, constitute an exception to the rules for elections to other elected bodies.
in writing. ‒ the european commission intends to present an aviation package by the end of 2015 that seeks to identify and address the challenges facing the eu aviation sector. the european parliament's motion for a resolution adopted today, which i voted in favour of, contains recommendations that could improve the draft legislation currently under preparation. in particular, it calls on the commission to take into account and integrate into the aviation package the key elements of parliament's resolutions on the single european sky 2+ (ses2+) and the european aviation safety agency (easa) adopted at first reading, and of its resolution of 2 july 2013 on the european union's external aviation policy. the adopted proposal calls for the introduction of proactive policies to support and develop the aerospace industry, calls for proactive policies to ensure a level playing field and encourages member states to improve their national infrastructure so that their airlines can compete on more favourable terms.
in writing. ‒ the following the recent terrorist attacks on trains in europe, it is clear that the european union must continuously work to increase and guarantee the safety of the citizens of each member state in the different forms of transport. the aviation industry is a major employer with an important impact on the development and growth of the european economy. some 10 million flights are made over europe every year. about half a million people are employed in this area. the new measures under the air transport package are intended to improve the functioning and protection of the single market for air transport in europe. this market could potentially be extended to some other countries. it is also important in liberalisation to genuinely guarantee the high quality of the enforcement of existing consumer rights of passengers. this concerns, for example, financial compensation for significant flight delays or for lost or damaged baggage. however, the effort to improve safety cannot lead to even more inconvenience for passengers at airports.
in writing. ‒ the popularity and global role of air transport in both passenger and freight traffic is now unquestioned. this is a fact that europe must face and we must therefore, like the other transport sectors, aim to develop and expand aviation. a well-functioning air infrastructure can also serve europe's economic development to a large extent, in addition to increasing individual interests. there is no doubt that the content of the future aviation package that is now on the table is highly anticipated. we need a comprehensive document that provides a long-term strategy for the sustainable development of the european aviation industry and ensures its advancement in the global market. increasing traffic also has increasing environmental impacts, so it is vital that we develop a strategy for the future with a sense of responsibility for our environment. the commission notes that the airport services agreement with ryanair was signed on 30 june 2013 and that the agreement with ryanair was signed on 1 july 2013. i am thinking in particular of making eu airspace safe, but also of airing national borders for aircraft. the safety of passengers should be a guiding principle for legislators.
in writing. ‒ the aviation industry is an important part of the eu economy. in 2012 alone, the sector was associated with 2.6 million jobs and generated more than 2.4% of the eu's gdp. the importance and impact of air travel on all eu citizens has also grown in recent years, with up to 849,4 million passengers travelling by air in the eu in 2014. i therefore voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on aviation, which deals with improving the competitiveness of the aviation industry and improving the level of safety in eu airspace.
in writing. ‒ the the european commission's anticipated air transport package comes at a time when the sector is facing a number of challenges. european airports and airlines are exposed to competition from third countries, which subsidise their carriers at the expense of eu companies. the eu's air transport needs a strong stimulus to create the conditions for a sustainable and competitive environment for airlines and airports. i therefore support the resolution of parliament calling on the commission to support innovative measures in the areas of air traffic management, alternative fuels, aircraft engines and airport safety. in addition, it cannot be forgotten that the aviation industry, as a fast-growing sector, attracts highly motivated employees. however, their working conditions do not always meet european social standards, as airlines also reduce their operating costs through atypical employment contracts which put the employee at a disadvantage in many respects. it is worth noting that the number of passengers in air transport is constantly increasing and that this sector has become an important part of the european economy in recent decades. the aviation sector today employs 5.1 million people in the eu and contributes €365 billion to european gdp. it is therefore important that the commission removes the barriers that hinder the development of air transport. at the same time, however, it is essential to protect the employees who are held hostage by the airlines in this competitive battle for the passenger.
in writing. ‒ i consider that clear rules for new technologies are key in this regard.
in writing. ‒ given that the proposal calls for a significant increase in regulatory burden that would harm the competitiveness of the air transport sector, i voted against.
the free trade agreement with vietnam, which follows on from the partnership and cooperation agreement, could have been such a telling example of how the european union can demand that its new trading partner also uphold human rights as we see them in europe. i think it's very important that we recognize people with disabilities, what rights they have there. that people can't even freely assemble. that there are no independent unions. that saigon, once a multicultural and multi-religious example, is today a communist country where religious freedom is still trampled underfoot. the commission should be much more consistent in enforcing this trade document and demand from its partners the kind of approach to human rights that we would like.
i welcome ecuador's accession to the trade agreement that the european union already has with peru and colombia. i think it's a step in the right direction, and it's something that benefits both the european union and this latin american country. i have been more involved lately as vice-president of eurolat in the issues of cooperation between the european union and central and south america, and i like that ecuador is such a real tangible example of such progress. diversifying our partners is good for europe and good for our jobs. of course, we must not forget the human rights dimension and social development in this latin american country.
we have the issue of animal welfare today, and i think it's a very important issue and we need to address it. whether we're talking about animals that are kept in big farms, that are kept in conditions that are not quite adequate, but also social animals. several of my colleagues have already mentioned it. we should be able to find the right breeding rate for them, too. i would also like to touch on some of the issues that are not resolved, and that are various inappropriate ways of slaughtering or various unnecessary sometimes even animal experiments. although, let's be honest again, if it was a new drug that was tested and needed by people, our children, maybe, we would have found the right dose. on the other hand, for example, we make big mistakes when we transport animals. i would also like to touch on the question of cloned animals. they are suffering a great deal, they are in great pain, they are in great difficulty, and i am glad that parliament has rejected the production of meat from cloned animals.
mr president, international terrorism is clearly trying to shift some of its conflict to europe at this time of the christmas season. they want to destabilize and they want to frighten the citizens of europe. it is worrying that some in this parliament are underestimating the seriousness of this situation. i am convinced that the citizens of europe expect us to take action, and these are the decisions we must take if we want to maintain their trust in the european union. we must not play the classic political game here, not about who wins but about finding rational solutions to the situation. the european people's party has drawn up a package of solutions to increase the security of european citizens. i would ask the honourable members to study this material so that we can adopt its elements as soon as possible. otherwise, he fears that the citizens will listen to the political extremists.
in writing. ‒ many of the acts included in the schengen acquis are no longer relevant, as they are temporary in nature or have been replaced by subsequent acts, but the original acts have not been repealed. on the basis of the scrutiny carried out by the commission, it has submitted a proposal to repeal the following outdated acts: 11 decisions of the schengen executive committee, as their content has been taken over by subsequent legislation, and council regulation (ec) no 189/2008 of 18 february 2008 on the testing of the second generation of the schengen information system (sis ii) (oj l 57, 7.4.2013, p. 1), which expired when sis ii became operational on 9 april 2013. i voted in favour of the report which supports the repeal of obsolete acts.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the declared intention to improve the law-making process and simplify the european union's legislation, including by repealing obsolete acts, the european commission's proposal in question, following a review, repeals obsolete acts and changes the form of this act from a decision to a regulation.
in writing. ‒ regular review of eu legislation should be a natural part of the legislative process. some legislation in the area of freedom, security and justice is not serving its purpose or is temporary, outdated and does not serve the needs of actual practice effectively. the proposed repeal will therefore contribute to the transparency of legislation, to the simpler orientation and ultimately to the simpler interpretation of standards in the areas concerned.
in writing. ‒ the improving the transparency of acts is an important factor in the creation of union law. regulations and acts shall cease to exist because of their temporary nature or because of the incorporation of their content into new regulations. in assessing the schengen acquis, many acts were marked as obsolete and the commission therefore proposed their repeal. in total, 11 acts are abolished, including those on the exchange of information, the issuing of schengen visas, the fight against illegal immigration and the verification of documents. the purpose of the regulation is to adopt measures at union level which are equally binding in their entirety on the member states. i therefore support the decision to repeal obsolete and temporary acts whose content is obscene or which have been incorporated into subsequent acts.
in writing. ‒ i support the proposals for repealing certain acts in the area of freedom, security and justice and police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, as i consider the transparency and clarity of the laws to be important. the timeliness of eu legislation is certainly a positive factor, which is why we should not forget about obsolete regulations that no longer serve any purpose and their repeal.
in writing. ‒ i agree that the commission is fulfilling its commitment to simplify eu legislation by repealing obsolete legislation. in this context, the commission also carried out an assessment of the schengen acquis and legal instruments in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. since it concluded that many acts were already obsolete and their content had been incorporated into subsequent acts or had a temporary character, its proposal to repeal them can only be supported. this will lead to the repeal of 11 decisions of the schengen executive committee, as their content has been taken over by subsequent acts. the council regulation on the testing of the second generation schengen information system will also be repealed, as the system has already been launched. simplification of the legal system is essential in the current situation, both because of its complexity and opacity and to increase the credibility of citizens.
in writing. ‒ for reasons of legal certainty and clarity, it is desirable to repeal obsolete legal rules, i.e. outdated and unused regulations and decisions in the fields concerned, while at the same time creating scope for improving the transparency, clarity and effectiveness of union law.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal as it aims to simplify legislation without altering its effects. i welcome any similar activities that result in greater clarity of legislation and ideally a lower regulatory burden.
in writing. ‒ the sheer volume of european union legislation and the constant evolution that requires a rapid response often mean that legislation which no longer applies in practice because the situation for which it was created has passed or has become obsolete and has been replaced by other legislation remains formally in force. this can cause legal uncertainty and chaos when trying to navigate european legislation. i therefore support the european commission's refit programme, under which the commission is gradually focusing on individual areas of legislation and proposing to repeal those that are no longer needed for the reasons mentioned above. as there have been several in the area of schengen law, i supported this report and the two other reports on the repeal of redundant acts.
in writing. ‒ a number of acts adopted in the area of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters and included in the schengen acquis are no longer relevant, as they are of a temporary nature or have been replaced by subsequent acts, but the original acts have not been repealed. in the interinstitutional agreement of 16 december 2003, the european parliament, the council and the commission agreed to reduce and simplify union legislation, inter alia, by repealing obsolete legislation. on the basis of the scrutiny carried out by the commission, it has proposed to repeal the obsolete decisions sch/com-ex (93) 14 and (98) 52 of the executive committee (on the fight against drug trafficking) and the obsolete declaration of the executive committee (on the smuggling of minors) sch/com-ex (97) decl 13 rev 2 and the obsolete decision 2008/173/ib of the council on the testing of the second generation of the schengen information system (sis ii) and decision sch/com-ex (98) 52 (on the fight against drug trafficking). i voted in favour of the report, which supports the repeal of obsolete acts, because it contributes to the reduction and simplification of eu legislation.
in writing. ‒ the proposal abolishes the rules on combating drug trafficking, the abduction of minors, traffic offences, the police manual and the tests of the second generation schengen information system. the reason for the repeal is the obsolescence and temporariness of the provisions, the issues of some acts having already been taken up in the new provisions.
in writing. ‒ the european institutions have agreed to reduce the volume of eu legislation in order to increase transparency and simplify law-making. for this reason, the regulation repeals obsolete acts whose content has been temporarily suspended or carried over into subsequent acts. in particular, the proposal in question concerns the schengen acquis acts in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, which the commission has presented in accordance with the better law-making agreement. i therefore fully support the motion and vote in favour of its adoption.
in writing. ‒ the commission is delivering on its commitment to simplify eu legislation by repealing obsolete legislation. in this context, the commission also carried out an assessment of the schengen acquis and legal instruments in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. since it concluded that many acts were already obsolete and their content had been incorporated into subsequent acts or had a temporary character, its proposal to repeal them can only be supported. this will lead to the repeal of outdated decisions of the executive committee on the fight against drug trafficking, the police handbook, as well as statements of the executive committee on the abduction of minors. the decision on the agreement on cooperation in traffic offences will also be included in the list of repealed acts, as that agreement never entered into force. in addition, the schengen acquis is adapted technically when the type of act is changed from 'decision' to 'regulation' or a title is added specifying that the repealed acts fall within this adaptation. even if such technical changes are made, they are important for the overall consistency of the legal system.
in writing. ‒ the interest in legal certainty and the clarity of the union legal order is also an important element in the area of cooperation between member states at police and judicial level in criminal matters. i therefore support the abolition of obsolete legislation which has lost its relevance over time.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has carried out an analysis of the schengen acquis and the legal instruments in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. the commission has found that a number of acts are obsolete, either because their content has been taken over by later acts or because they were of a provisional nature in the first place. on the basis of its review, the commission has put forward a proposal to repeal seven council joint actions the content of which has been taken over by subsequent acts and the council act establishing the staff regulations of europol staff. i voted in favour of the report, which supports the repeal of obsolete acts, because it contributes to the reduction and simplification of eu legislation.
in writing. ‒ some acts in the field of chemical drug profiling, the list of capabilities for combating organised crime, the fight against drug addiction and drug trafficking, law, order and security cooperation, customs cooperation, the driving ban, good practice in mutual legal assistance in criminal matters and the european evidence warrant are being repealed due to their temporary nature or obsolescence.
in writing. ‒ the commission has carried out a major review of legislation in the area of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, which has led to a number of acts being declared obsolete. in view of the agreement between the eu institutions on the reduction and simplification of union legislation, the need to increase transparency and clarity in the legislative process is important to me, and i therefore consider it important to repeal obsolete acts whose content is temporary or taken over by subsequent acts. the proposed regulation repeals obsolete acts covering, for example, unified cooperation in counter-terrorism capability, the fight against drug addiction or cooperation in the field of law, order and security, but the individual areas are appropriately regulated in subsequent acts.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that the commission is delivering on its commitment to simplify eu legislation by repealing obsolete legislation. in this context, the commission also carried out an assessment of the schengen acquis and legal instruments in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. since it concluded that many acts were already obsolete and their content had been incorporated into subsequent acts or had a temporary character, its proposal to repeal them can only be supported. the commission has submitted a proposal to repeal seven council joint actions, the content of which has been incorporated in subsequent acts, and a council act laying down the staff regulations applicable to europol staff. these adjustments concern only a small number of employment contracts and will soon expire. two obsolete acts will be repealed. one is the convention on the prohibition of driving a motor vehicle, which has been ratified by only 7 of the 15 signatory member states and has therefore not entered into force anywhere. the council framework decision on the european evidence order for the purpose of obtaining objects, documents and data in criminal matters is also repealed. this decision shall be replaced by a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the european investigation order in criminal matters. technical adaptations of this type contribute to legal certainty and legal clarity and it is therefore important that the commission continue to apply this approach.
in writing. ‒ given the temporary nature of certain legal acts, or their derogation by a new legal act, i consider it appropriate to update the union legal order in order to ensure its effectiveness, clarity and legal certainty.
in writing. ‒ the european union is interested in becoming a full member of the commission of the convention for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna, as it has been a non-cooperating member of the commission since 2006. non-cooperating members shall participate fully in the activities of the committee but shall not be entitled to vote and shall be bound by the management and safeguard measures of the committee.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal and welcome the european union's full participation in this convention.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's directive has been revised mainly for the sake of clarity, but also for better consumer protection. it aims at minimum harmonisation and thus allows member states to retain the original provisions or introduce more stringent ones at their own discretion, but the primary objective should be the protection of customers consumers. in particular, the aim is to ensure the same level of protection for the customer purchasing the insurance product and to extend the scope of this directive not only to insurance undertakings and their intermediaries but also to other market participants selling insurance products as an ancillary activity.
in writing. ‒ the the directive aims to harmonise national provisions in the insurance distribution activity, since to ensure effective protection and non-discrimination it is necessary to ensure a level playing field between service distributors, mutual recognition of knowledge and enhance customer confidence in the internal market. the directive applies to persons engaged in the provision of insurance or reinsurance to third parties and to persons whose activity consists in the provision of information on insurance contracts. member states are free to maintain or introduce more stringent provisions aimed at protecting customers and consumers, given that the directive is intended to lay down minimum obligations to be observed in the provision of information to customers by service distributors. i am positive that the adoption of the directive should not be a burden for small and medium-sized distributors.
in writing. ‒ in voting on the european parliament legislative resolution on the proposal for a directive on insurance intermediation, i voted in favour of adopting this resolution. in fact, it is very difficult for consumers to navigate the complex system of insurance companies and their intermediaries nowadays. the aim of this proposal for a directive is to help consumers in this area. the directive will guarantee that the client is provided with basic information about the contract, irrespective of the form of the mediation, and that the clients are also informed of the type of remuneration for the mediator, the amount and form of which can no longer be secret.
in writing. ‒ the the aim of this amendment to the insurance intermediation directive is to increase consumer protection by giving them access to more detailed information on insurance products. i therefore support the proposal for a directive of the ep and the council which will impose certain minimum information and advice requirements on dealers. under the new rules, insurance intermediaries will have to register with the competent authorities of the member states and provide clients with all the information on the costs of the insurance contract in advance. brokers and dealers should also have at their disposal, inter alia, financial reserves to be able to satisfy the claims of clients, where necessary. this directive should make the insurance market more transparent, transparent and accessible to the customer. the seller shall be obliged in all circumstances to provide comprehensible information on the type of insurance, the obligations arising from the contract, the insurance risks, the exemptions, or the method of payment for the insurance. for contracts to be beneficial for both parties, the seller and the customer, it is first and foremost necessary that the customer is not exposed to surprises which could have been avoided.
in writing. ‒ detailed and truthful consumer information is particularly important when it comes to insurance products. the directive we have approved sets minimum common standards that every intermediary must meet and will clear the market of quick-witted experts in the world of finance.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the proposal as it increases the regulatory burden and thus damages the business environment. while the increased regulatory burden is intended to protect the customer, the deterioration of the business environment in the insurance intermediation sector will inevitably come at the expense of restricting competition, which will ultimately also harm the customer itself.
in writing. ‒ i supported the new directive because it will increase consumer protection. it will also make it easier for the customer to buy insurance products. the rules adopted will apply across the eu and will guarantee that dealers and intermediaries provide the same minimum level of information and advice. this will better protect consumers, whether before the conclusion of the contract or in the event of problems arising in the provision of insurance benefits, for example because the intermediary, through his negligence, causes the insurance undertaking not to have to provide such benefits.
in writing. ‒ the draft directive on insurance intermediation concerns all insurance providers and intermediaries. in practice, this means in particular greater clarity, information and protection for the consumer. i consider providing clear, understandable and non-misleading information to be an important step in protecting clients. for example, the consumer will now be assured that he will be provided with sufficient information to make an informed decision and that he will be provided with protection in the event of a dispute, including with a foreign provider. it will also ensure that insurance intermediaries have expertise in the products they recommend and that their expertise is monitored by the member states. i hope that this measure will prevent the current proliferation of various unqualified intermediaries and advisers. another important benefit for consumers is that they will no longer be able to force insurance on them when they buy a product. finally, i also welcome provisions that should ensure that insurance providers no longer condition the remuneration of intermediaries by recommending specific products that are most profitable for them but do not meet the needs of the client. this will give the client greater assurance that the product offered to him corresponds as closely as possible to his requirements and has not been selected for him solely in the interest of a higher remuneration of the intermediary. all of these elements convinced me to support the report.
in writing. ‒ according to the un convention, all children should be guaranteed the right to normal living conditions, such as the rights to education, health care, rest, a balanced diet and a normal family environment. yet, there is a high level of poverty and social exclusion among children in europe, which limits their access to quality education and healthcare. the report proposes measures to address these problems, focusing on child poverty and the root causes of related problems. the eradication of child poverty must be a priority for all member states, which is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the the aim of the proposed european parliament resolution is to encourage member states to invest more in children, to support their education and development. the number of children at direct risk of poverty in europe has been increasing since 2008. this negative trend is not being reversed satisfactorily, despite some economic recovery. the increase in the risk of child poverty and social exclusion is linked to economic difficulties and the way in which europe has chosen to deal with them in recent years. this is the case for millions of children throughout the european union, and the reason is undoubtedly the austerity measures of recent years. they also result in reduced social support for young families and a higher risk of unemployment. the risk of children falling into poverty increases with social inequalities. the lowest proportion of children living in poverty is in countries with the strongest social systems. the nordic countries in particular, but also neighbouring austria, are examples.
in writing. ‒ according to statistics, one in four children in the eu is now at risk of poverty or social exclusion. it is both alarming and sad that, in the 21st century, despite the commitments made, the social systems of the eu and its member states are failing to cope with this problem. it speaks to the lack of accountability for all of us, the lack of redistribution of resources, the lack of consideration for the needs of the socially-inherited, and worst of all, the lack of belonging and compassion. it is clear that the statements, appeals and reports do not bring about any fundamental changes in this area. but the solution to this problem can no longer be postponed. it is therefore necessary for the eu to adopt legislation as soon as possible that identifies binding, clear, effective and sanctionable measures to address this problem.
in writing. ‒ in a situation where one in four children in europe is at risk of poverty, i think it is important to talk about this issue, which is why i support reducing inequalities with a special focus on child poverty. i agree that the treatment of children in our countries must become a priority for our own development and also our contribution to a global vision of solidarity and a fairer distribution of resources. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament. such is the case of the recommended increase in unemployment benefits, which may have a demotivating effect, deepening child poverty rather than eliminating it. on the contrary, member state governments must create an environment where jobs are created, which provides a solution not only in the short term but also in the long term, as children can see positive role models in their parents. however, i agree that the situation of women carers and family members with special needs and disabilities should also be addressed in the fight against child poverty. in fact, many women's pensions are now being cut because of this. however, the primary responsibility for how this is changed should lie with the member states' governments.
in writing. - as parents, we certainly want the best for our children. it is sad when childhood is marked by poverty and lack of basic necessities. at the same time, however, it is the responsibility of the member states to address social and family policy issues. that is why i voted against the motion for a european parliament legislative resolution on reducing inequalities with a special focus on child poverty. officials from brussels cannot determine what the living standards of slovak families should be.
in writing. ‒ in the eu, 84 million people live below the poverty line, about 16 per cent of the european population. it is very worrying that more than 25 million children in the european union (eu) are at risk of poverty or social exclusion, one in four. i regret that the percentage of children living in poverty in the european union is higher than the percentage of the adult population living in poverty, and that child poverty is increasing along with social inequalities. i think it's in all of our interests that social inequalities and the negative impact of poverty and social exclusion on children are not passed down through generations and have an undesirable impact on the lives of these people and on society. that is why i voted for the resolution, because i believe that reducing inequalities and the treatment of children in our own countries must become a priority for our own development. i also supported the report in respect of respect for human rights, which the eu and its member states have committed to respect in international and european treaties, including the un convention on the rights of the child. i expect that the measures taken will improve the policy to combat child poverty and achieve the europe 2020 target of reducing the number of people affected by poverty by at least 20 million.
in writing. ‒ our common interest is to create conditions where every child has an equal chance to fulfil his or her potential and aspirations. however, the way this is achieved should be the primary responsibility of the member states' governments, not the european institutions.
in writing. - i did not support the motion. although inequality, especially among children, can be a problem, many of the recommendations presented in the proposal ultimately increase poverty and harm those they are supposed to protect in particular. this is particularly the emphasis on raising the minimum wage, various social benefits and so on.
in writing. ‒ every year, on the occasion of the international day for the eradication of poverty, i draw attention to the problem of poverty among families with young children. the fact that millions of children in a rich european union are living in poverty is shameful. the resolution adopted contains many good proposals and i am very sorry that i had to abstain in the final vote. the reason for my decision was the ideologically conditioned inclusion of sexual and reproductive health in the text, which concerned the health care of pregnant women and mothers. pregnant women and mothers and their unborn children and newborns need to be provided with the utmost healthcare, but the term 'sexual and reproductive health' is unfortunately often understood to include abortion. i also read with interest the alternative resolution from the enf workshop, but as we in the epp group have adopted the principle of not supporting any initiatives by french nationalists whose political positions are harmful to europe and slovakia, i voted against their amendment.
in writing. ‒ i consider reducing inequalities with a focus on child poverty to be a topic that we should address within the european union, as more and more children are exposed to poverty and its associated social exclusion, and often, as a result of parental poverty, do not have access to quality education, healthcare or decent housing. i believe that mrs zuber's report has identified the problems facing children in the european union, but i do not agree with the solutions to these problems that have been put forward. it is not helping children out of poverty to propose increasing unemployment benefits or to harmonise minimum wage values across the european union, but rather member states should seek to create an environment that is suitable for job creation, training and upskilling of parents who can then set an example for their children, while ensuring that children have a quality education, which i consider to be an effective means of lifting them out of poverty. as i said, the report contains positive aspects with which i agree, but also many proposals which i could not support, i abstained in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy is one of the eu's strongest tools for strengthening territorial and social cohesion within regions and tackling inequalities. cohesion policy is particularly important for the eastern and central european member states. poverty and unemployment make the plight of marginalized groups even more difficult. the restrictions introduced as a result of the agricultural crisis further increase the difficulties of these groups of society. the management of the situation of marginalised communities is a responsibility of the member states, but the eu must nevertheless play an important role in this area. however, the eu's opportunities in the member states must be exploited to the fullest extent possible so that aid can actually reach the regions in need without discrimination. i voted in favour of the parliamentary report.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy is an important instrument and must play an important role in the european union. the main responsibility for the situation of marginalised communities, which in a majority society often face exclusion and segregation, lies with the member states. however, i am convinced that the objective of social cohesion requires a europe-wide approach to policies aimed at the inclusion of marginalised communities. in particular, it is an integrated approach to address the differentiated forms of discrimination faced by these communities. they must be included in the decision-making structures as well as in the implementation and monitoring process of the projects. the proper implementation of the code of conduct for partnerships is crucial to this.
in writing. ‒ the cohesion policy is a pillar of solidarity in the eu. it pursues objectives of economic growth and competitiveness, job creation and, ultimately, improving the quality of life. the eu has set aside €352 billion for its implementation for the years 2014-2020, almost a third of the eu budget. the impact of the public spending cuts has been particularly severe for the weaker sections of the population. it is therefore essential that cohesion policy resources are used effectively to address the specific needs of marginalised groups, so that adequate housing, health and social care and, above all, employment are provided for them through investment support. a reasonable support for investment will have a positive impact on the economy and the economy of each member country. at the same time, flexible mechanisms should be established to control the management of the funds allocated, from the conception of the project to its completion, and a system of effective and, above all, timely sanctions and measures for the misuse or abuse of funds.
in writing. ‒ the european union's structural funds are one of the important tools that can help address the critical situation of marginalised communities, but they are very often the ones who do not benefit from european cohesion policy. i therefore welcome the fact that the report on cohesion policy and marginalised communities presented also warns and cautions against the possibility that implementers may meet the inclusion criteria on paper, but may not invest in what the beneficiaries really need and may not reach the target groups. and so the real improvement in the situation, according to many who are concerned, is often not directly proportional to the amount of money spent. waste has the opposite effect, namely, to make a situation worse without any further prospects. not to mention that this is an extremely complex problem, for example in the case of the roma community. because if we're talking about the phenomenon of poverty in these communities, we have to talk about the debts that these people can never pay off in their lifetime. and the threat of execution demotes their pursuit of employment as the main and most important path to integration into society.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy aims to strengthen economic, social and territorial cohesion and to reduce social disparities, including the reduction and elimination of poverty and exclusion. i therefore consider the use of eu funds within this policy to integrate marginalised communities as an important part of the tools needed to address the roma issue in slovakia, as well as in the eu. however, i cannot agree with the effort to coordinate and link more strongly national strategies for marginalised communities with gender equality strategies and therefore abstained from voting on the legislative resolution on cohesion policy and marginalised communities.
in writing. ‒ while the member states have the primary responsibility for addressing the problems of marginalised communities, i consider cohesion policy to be one of the most powerful tools the european union has at its disposal to combat inequalities and promote territorial and social cohesion in its regions. i supported the resolution because i believe that the growing poverty and social exclusion of marginalised groups is a sufficient reason to change approaches where necessary and to create better conditions to improve access to employment opportunities, adult education and training and to promote self-employment. i believe that better education and the integration of marginalised communities into the labour market in the individual member states should therefore be a priority. i also expect cohesion policy, which aims to integrate marginalised communities, to bring more flexibility and resilience, to promote territorial development and to help reduce regional disparities. in this context, i think it is important that cohesion policy should give even more support to smes, which help to preserve jobs.
in writing. - i voted against it. the problem with cohesion policies is not that they are set up in a particular way, but that they do more harm than good, after all, as do other efforts to raise people's living standards through redistribution. the most helpful thing for prosperous people, including marginalised communities, would be to abolish cohesion policies altogether, rather than simply changing their parameters endlessly with ever-increasing amounts of resources being redistributed.
in writing. ‒ the the term 'gender' is mentioned repeatedly in the report presented, mostly in relation to the empowerment of women in marginalised communities and in recommendations aimed at supporting women in the use of cohesion budgets. at the same time, however, 'gender equality' also appears in contexts where it is not clear whether it is about equality between men and women from the point of view of labour policy, social policy, etc., or about the requirement to recognise the specific needs of people arising from the different identities with which they identify. unless these two levels are separated, the result will be confusing policies and meaningless statistics that do nothing to help marginalized communities or the women in them.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on cohesion policy and its relevance to marginalised communities. cohesion policy, when fully exploited in the member states, can act as an important tool to combat inequalities and support communities in the european union that face exclusion to segregation and suffer from poverty and unemployment, or poor access to public services as well as to funding from european union funds. the report proposes solutions targeting marginalised communities, based on strong political will and an integrated approach, aiming in particular at improving access to education, public services and better information, for example, on programmes to promote entrepreneurship. and as i see that marginalization in slovakia is also a serious problem, not only for ethnic minorities but also for people with disabilities, for example, who are often denied access to quality education, actively looking for solutions is in my opinion a significant step forward.
in writing. ‒ the principles and objectives of the european union's foreign policy are set out in article 21 of the treaty on european union and are closely linked to the objectives of the united nations. article 21 teu expressly requires respect for the un charter and the principles of international law. the union contributes significantly to development and humanitarian aid worldwide; recalls that the union and its member states are collectively the world's largest donors to development and humanitarian aid. as the report points out that the union should seek to strengthen global governance within the un system and increase its own and its member states' influence in order to better achieve the foreign policy objectives enshrined in the treaty, and recalls the commitment of the union to support a comprehensive reform of the un system in order to strengthen its legitimacy, regional representation, transparency, accountability and capacity to respond to the complex and diverse challenges of our time, i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ the european union promotes the values of human rights and security and acts to preserve peace, prevent conflict and strengthen international security, in accordance with the principles of the un charter and the objectives of the charter of paris for a new europe. we are also a leading player in a number of policy areas that are interlinked. we seek environmental sustainability, strengthen the foundation of social cohesion and believe that humanity is bound together by common values and interests. we respect the un system as the main global forum for improving global governance and as the most effective form of promoting the values and interests of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the since 1974, the eu has been a permanent observer at the un general assembly. he has observer status in most of the un specialised agencies. this will increase the interconnectedness of the policies of both entities and their values, in particular in the areas of security, peace and the protection of human rights. at the same time, the eu, together with its member states, is the largest financial contributor to the un. the events of recent months, the conflict in ukraine, the situation in the middle east, syria, the terrorism of the islamic state and other global problems call for a reassessment and strengthening of the european union's position in relation to the un, as well as for the reform of the un itself. it must become an active and flexible organisation with transparent bodies and their election, transparent policies, transparent funding and its strict control by the eu and all member states.
in writing. the provision of aid to eu member states must be governed by rules that are transparent, understandable, as simple as possible and at the same time verifiable and monitorable. for aid to be effective, it must be timely and flexible. i support the adoption of measures to simplify the rules, which will strengthen legal certainty both on the eu side and on the side of beneficiaries, member states, cities, municipalities and smes.
in writing. ‒ given that the future of the european union is linked to global peace and security, i welcome the report on the eu's role in the un, as i believe that we need to consider how to better fulfil the eu's foreign policy objectives. in a situation where the security of the union is threatened by a large number of long-term or emerging security challenges, i consider it a priority to identify clearly the primary objectives. and these are, after the current events in paris and other threats across the eu, no doubt the conflicts in syria and iraq and the rise of the terrorist organisation isis, as well as the conflict in eastern ukraine. these are serious global problems that require a global response, for which the union needs the support of international partners. without peace, no other goals, however important, can be achieved. this is why it is all the more important for the future to support prevention within the un system so that early warnings are translated into immediate action, which offers a real chance to prevent atrocities against the population, and thus help to fulfil the union's commitment to upholding respect for humanitarian principles, human rights and refugee rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the väyrynen report because of collegiality with my british colleagues, whose continued seat on the united nations security council would be at risk, and i also believe that the rapporteur has moved the report beyond the framework originally set out in the negotiations in the committees.
in writing. ‒ the since the adoption of the treaty of lisbon, the eu has become actively involved in the activities of the united nations. the position of high representative for foreign affairs and security policy was also created to enable the eu to speak with one voice in international forums. i therefore share the belief that the eu should continue to be a model of effective multilateral governance, which the un reform agenda should also be moving towards. it is worth noting that the strong partnership between these two international organisations is built on three long-term pillars: peace and security, human rights and sustainable development. these are the areas where the eu and the un can complement each other. culture, intercultural and interreligious dialogue are also an integral part of the un's work. the eu should therefore give culture a more strategic role in its external relations, as it is also one of its core values. it is in forums such as the un that the eu should promote activities aimed at preserving endangered cultural heritage or combating illicit trafficking in cultural goods. i therefore welcome the enhanced cooperation between the eu and unesco, which could lead to joint action beyond financial assistance and joint project management. we cannot forget that the cultural dimension is essential for successful development policies that promote the building of sustainable societies.
in writing. ‒ the un, as a global organisation founded on the principles of global peace, security and human rights, is also a forum for promoting eu values and interests. the union must also play its part at the un, since we all have a shared responsibility to respect international law and world developments.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the proposal because i do not agree with some of its challenges, such as the call to achieve ambitious climate targets, nor do i agree with the highlighting of the 'significant contribution' of the eu to development and humanitarian aid in the world.
in writing. ‒ it is certainly right that the european union is represented in un structures. i have some doubts, however, whether the commission's great diplomatic ambitions, supported by the majority in this parliament, are not premature. if there was a consensus among the member states that they wanted to merge into one big federation and become part of a larger state, then of course it would be logical to create a diplomatic apparatus to represent it. but until such an agreement is reached, we will have to ask ourselves constantly in specific situations whose interests european diplomacy is actually promoting in the international arena. we put on our coats, although our pants are still hanging on the hanger. let's not be happy that it's a very nice and warm coat, because without pants in it, we'll eventually catch a cold.
together, we negotiated the best compromise possible. but if we are to get much closer to what europe's citizens need, the revenue side of the budget needs to be more independent. the question remains whether we can start and sustain growth and employment. the ambition of the juncker investment plan is therefore to create a positive impetus. the european funds must also be added. the greater the value added of the projects, the greater the impact. on the other hand, the accumulation of unpaid invoices owed by the european union for projects already implemented creates a negative impulse. it is against growth, against employment, against the use of the european funds. the migration crisis poses additional risks. it may soon be demanding that we seek the necessary financing at the expense of cohesion policy. this is why some member states must stop looking at the world in a selfish way, and we all have the obligation under the treaties of rome to create a viable system of own resources.
i welcome this document, although i did not think it would become current so quickly. we must also be aware that the european union has limited scope for action in various areas, as key areas such as the judiciary, the enforcement of sentences, the protection of the eu's external borders, internal security and the implementation of educational programmes fall within the competence of the member states. i would like to highlight the main point which i believe is the most important for the success of these activities: namely, the need for sincere and effective cooperation between the member states and the union institutions. we have to realize that we are interdependent. any individual games can only reduce the level of success of the whole. the current situation requires us to have flexible systems for exchanging information between security forces, including intelligence services. europol's powers should also be strengthened and information from its system should be made available to national units. we must take a very active stand against aggressive preachers, and i also agree with the idea that every foreign fighter should be put under adequate supervision upon his return to his country by a court order. effective educational projects must also be considered. we're running a significant delay in this area. and finally, we must act decisively to cut off the financial flows to international terrorism.
in writing. i find it unacceptable that the european steel sector, with its 60 000 direct jobs and another 100 000 indirect jobs, is currently facing the greatest crisis in its peacetime history. i expect that this report will lead to measures that will create growth for the base metal industry and restore its global competitiveness. although the steel sector has been experiencing a loss of more than 40 million tonnes of steel production capacity since 2008 and a 40 mt decrease in demand was recorded in 2014 compared to 2007, i believe that this industrial policy will create the steps that will provide the essential metals industry with the necessary tools and means to achieve a successful transition to a low carbon economy. as a slovak mep, i feel this area all the more so because i come from the town of košice, where there is a steel company employing more than 10 000 people, and i know what can happen if there is no demand for its products. i expect the base metal industry to adapt strategically to the new climate, economic and social situation by setting an example in the efficient and effective use of energy and raw materials and not disappearing from the industrial world of the future.
in writing. the families and loved ones of the victims in paris, but also all of france, need to be offered our deep and sincere condolences. we must make it clear that the terrorist massacre is not just france and its metropolis bleeding, but that it was an attack on our common values, which we want and will protect. the confirmation that the so-called islamic state is behind the massacre must be a last warning for all democratic countries to unite and take a firm stand against the religious terrorism embodied by this vile organization. the terror in paris is proof that fanatics will stop at nothing and that they are constantly perfecting their methods of spreading violence and cruelty. but tragedy has many dimensions. we cannot allow it to become a perverse instrument for defending the various xenophobic views we are forced to face, especially in the context of the ongoing refugee crisis in europe. the fear that these views promote and foster cannot possibly prevail over the barbarism and violence that religious fanaticism represents. on the contrary, it makes us weaker, and that's exactly what the paris assassins are trying to do. so it's important to focus on not spreading hate. the response should be a commitment to combat violence, radicalism and extremism in all its forms.
in writing. all those who spoke today condemned the notion that migrants are terrorists. i agree that the equation of migrants = terrorists is unacceptable. but think of what can happen if we do not listen to security policy experts, psychologists, and other experts. hundreds of thousands of people are coming into europe unchecked. many to save their own lives. among them are economic migrants who do not require international protection. they come in such numbers that europe cannot integrate them all. try to imagine what happens to those who don't get asylum. we're gonna have to send hundreds of thousands of people home. many of them, we don't even know where they are right now. many of them came to europe without registration. without work and money, they'll be frustrated and unhappy that they didn't make it. under certain circumstances, they can become easy prey for crime. there have been over 100 attempts to recruit for the islamic state. responsible politicians must take this into account. we need to tell you as soon as possible what we're going to do with those who are already in europe. but also how quickly we can get to a point where people can apply for asylum or for employment in the eu from outside without having to travel halfway across europe and pay smugglers to do so.
in writing. we have witnessed a series of tragic events in recent weeks. the russian plane crash and the terrorist attacks in beirut and paris claimed more than 400 lives. hundreds of families are affected, as the victims were parents, husbands, wives, children, brothers and sisters, all of whom are not easily coping with the loss. we had to realize very quickly that the series of attacks did not end there, that less than a week had passed and the drama in mali had continued. the latest attacks were not directed against any specific target group, but against anyone regardless of religion, nationality or colour, and this is what is keeping european citizens in fear. they don't dare go out, they get up at the sound of the police car. parents anxiously send their children to school, which after the frequent bombings no longer seems a safe place. european values are under attack and we have a duty to protect them properly - this must be our top priority! in this difficult period, it is particularly important that the european union acts as a credible and active actor in the fight against terrorism, and we must provide the necessary means to do so.
in writing. after the terrible events in paris, we must clearly and loudly articulate what our values are, from which we must not retreat: the equality of all people without distinction, mutual respect and democracy as the only way to solve public problems. and that's something that anyone who wants to live here has to respect.
in writing. i would like to express my sincere condolences to the families and loved ones of the victims of the terrorist attack in paris. this tragedy has confirmed the inhumanity of the fanatics who call themselves the islamic state and has exposed the weaknesses in the security of europe as a whole. the response to this terrible act that took the lives of innocent people must be greater cooperation and solidarity between our nations. we are weaker apart than we are together. the european project is not threatened by terrorists or refugees, but by populism, demagogy and narrow-mindedness elevated to a political principle. i hope and believe that neither the tragedy in paris nor the efforts of irresponsible people who want to use it to strengthen their own power will weaken the project of europe as a community of freedom, security, prosperity and solidarity.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'd like to join in, perhaps in a slightly calmer tone. i understand german really well, and when i hear the interpretation in the headphones and you at the same time, it happens often enough that you ask "who is against?" but in the headphones comes the interpretation, where it is asked: "who is for?" it's not about the screens. i can see that here too, which point is decided on, that is not a problem. but you're already one question ahead in the hand sign voting. it is true that there are often very complicated and confusing situations. i don't mean to be rude, but you're asking too fast. i also object to the way the gentlemen are presenting it, they wouldn't have to shout like that. but i'm having a really hard time with it. i have no problem with you personally, i can listen to the german. but when a colleague from italy or hungary presents it, i am so confused, i have no idea how the vote will be taken.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 8/2015 contains the most recent estimates of other revenue. overall, the budget of the european data protection supervisor is expected to be reduced by eur 123 474 as the gni-based contributions from member states will be reduced by eur 9,4 billion.
in writing. ‒ the the draft amending budget concerns the revision of the estimates of own resources, revenue and residual balances for 2015 and proposes a reduction in the member states' contributions to the union budget. the european parliament notes that the financial commitments have not yet been fulfilled by the member states. additional funding is currently needed to address the refugee crisis. i regret that no final decision has been reached on the use of the outflow of funds from amending budget no 8/2015 to deal with the crisis. i am confident, however, that the member states will respect these commitments.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution because the amending budget concerns the revision of traditional own resources (vat), the inclusion of the remaining vat and gni balances for 2014 and the inclusion of the vat and gni balances for 2015. the corrective budget also contains the most recent estimates of other revenue and also provides for a reduction of the data protection supervisor's budget by eur 123 474 in respect of commitment appropriations. the adopted amending budget proposal also proposed a reduction of member states' contributions based on gross domestic product by eur 9.4 billion. the resolution notes that member states have not yet met their financial commitments for the trust fund for africa, the trust fund for syria and the un agencies supporting refugees, and therefore condemns the fact that according to the commission, the amount of unfulfilled financial commitments of member states at the beginning of november this year was eur 2.3 billion. nevertheless, member states are expected to fully respect those commitments.
in writing. ‒ own resources are necessary for budget stability in the long term, so it is essential that the european union establishes an own resources system to ensure the stability of this budget.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal and welcome the reduction of member states' contributions to the eu budget.
in writing. ‒ the european union must find additional funding in its budget to deal with the migration crisis. the european commission proposes to mobilise the flexibility instrument to replenish the 2016 general budget of the european union by eur 1504 million. this will lead to the full use of the flexibility instrument for the financial year 2016 and to the use of the unused amount from 2014 and 2015.
in writing. ‒ the financing of the european agenda on migration measures in relation to the refugee crisis requires that the appropriations for their financing be secured in advance. the proposed decision allocates almost eur 1,6 billion for the years 2016 to 2019 to mobilise the flexibility instrument, of which eur 734,2 million for 2016. the management of these resources must be subject to strict controls.
in writing. ‒ the recent deepening of the refugee crisis has had a significant impact on european society and individual member states. moreover, addressing the crisis requires immediate budgetary action at eu level, as many urgent migration and refugee measures, which are very costly and often even intractable for member states, need to be adopted and subsequently adequately financed. the commission therefore proposes to release the commitment appropriations from the flexibility instrument. i have to say that unless all the actors involved at eu and national level start tackling the situation in a comprehensive way from the ground up, we risk the problem growing to a level that the eu itself will have difficulty in financing.
in writing. ‒ i believe it is important for the eu to demonstrate its ability to take fast and flexible decisions not only in theory but also in practice, thereby making a major contribution to the resolution of urgent issues. the migration crisis facing europe today requires us to take precisely such measures. that is why i support the transfer of substantial sums of money to crisis management, because if we have reserves and resources, we must use them now, to help the work of agencies such as frontex, europol or easo and to improve the situation of the countries most affected by the flood of migration.
in writing. ‒ it is essential to help refugees whose lives are in danger. it is equally important to allocate sufficient funds, as we face the greatest refugee crisis. however, in this form of budgetary measures, we also need to focus on how to use these funds in practice and ensure that their use is monitored transparently. i was missing such an important instrument in this case, which is why i abstained in the vote on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for immediate budgetary measures under the european agenda on migration.
in writing. ‒ the european agenda on migration cannot be addressed without funding. the commission therefore proposed to mobilise the flexibility instrument beyond the ceiling and to supplement the appropriations in the general budget of the union for the financial year by eur 1 504 million in commitment appropriations to finance measures relating to the migration crisis in europe. in addition to this amount, on a proposal from parliament, the conciliation committee agreed to release an additional eur 24 million. the release of eur 1 530 million of commitment appropriations from the flexibility instrument will be very effective in helping to address the immediate and longer-term problems of migrants in individual member states, which would not be able to cover within their own budgets the costs of hotspots, transitional accommodation, the provision of health and social assistance, humanitarian aid and the fight against smugglers.
in writing. ‒ the refugee crisis, given its urgent need for a pragmatic solution, requires immediate and effective action, so it is really important that the union budget is more flexible.
in writing. - i abstained on the motion. while i agree with increasing eu funding to deal with the refugee crisis, i have two fundamental objections to this particular proposal. first, i disagree with the commission's assertion that it has exhausted all available options for transferring resources under the budget chapter in question. secondly, i reject the use of these funds, since the majority of the approved package is to be used to finance compulsory relocation schemes for refugees, which i reject in principle.
in writing. ‒ it is not enough to talk about the migration crisis, but concrete measures must be taken to mitigate its negative effects on eu member states and their citizens. these measures cost money. at the same time, however, the current crisis and the huge wave of refugees is an extraordinary event that the eu budget did not foresee. it is therefore necessary to mobilise the flexibility instrument and use the existing budgetary reserves to cover these extraordinary costs.
in writing. ‒ the i abstained on the vote on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for immediate budgetary measures to deal with the refugee crisis. the flexibility instrument was to be mobilised in this case, according to the proposal, to finance the european agenda on migration, the proposal stating that all possibilities for relocating funds within the existing budget had been considered. however, i disagree with this reasoning and take the view that the current budget provides possibilities which could still be exploited, in particular in relation to the transfer of funds from areas with low added value. this would not exhaust the flexibility instrument as proposed, but could carry over to the next financial year to cover possible emergencies. the second reason why i could not vote for the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument was that the flexibility instrument is to provide funding for both relocation schemes, a temporary and a permanent system for the relocation of asylum seekers, which i do not support, as i think solidarity between states should be based mainly on the principle of voluntary action and not on mandatory quotas.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund was set up primarily to provide the european union with an effective and efficient instrument to assist member states affected by a major natural disaster and to help them cope with these emergencies. the european parliament and the council are seeking to include in the 2016 budget of the european union an amount of eur 50 million to enable member states to continue to provide effective and rapid assistance in the event of natural disasters in the coming year. at the insistence of parliament, a provision was therefore included in the final compromise text of the amending regulation, adopted for the first time under the ordinary legislative procedure, which proposed to enter in the budget an amount of eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations for each year in order to ensure the timely availability of budgetary resources.
in writing. ‒ the proposed decision allocates to the eu solidarity fund for 2016 an amount of eur 50 million for the payment of advances in order to provide assistance to the population in emergency situations in disaster-affected areas in a flexible and effective manner. aid is effective if it is provided in good time. that's why i appreciate the opportunity to pay the deposit.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund was set up to provide for the payment of advances in emergency situations caused by natural disasters. it is a demonstration of european solidarity and assistance to the affected countries involved in accession negotiations in the event of major disasters. the proposal aims to include a reserve in the union budget for 2016 which will be available for the disaster pre-financing before the decision to grant the pre-financing is taken. parliament was heavily involved in the enforcement of the new provision. i welcome the proposal to improve and increase the efficiency and mobilisation of the fund.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund was set up to enable the union to respond to emergencies caused by major natural disasters, and to show solidarity with the areas of europe affected by disasters. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that this fund should be increased by an additional eur 50 million for 2016 so that any advance payments can be made. that's why i was in favor of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the eu solidarity fund is used by the union to respond to emergencies caused by natural disasters and to show solidarity with the states, regions and areas in europe affected by disasters. a member state may request assistance if the direct damage caused by the disaster exceeds eur 3 billion or 0,6% of its gdp, whichever is the lower. given the long process from application to approval of the aid, immediate assistance is needed in the form of an advance to the affected regions, but not exceeding 10% of the estimated contribution from the solidarity fund. the advance can provide immediate relief to affected citizens, but it also sends a clear signal of eu solidarity with affected regions. to that end, the european union solidarity fund is mobilised within the general budget of the eu for the financial year 2016, to provide the sum of eur 50 000 000 in commitment and payment appropriations for the payment of advances in the event of natural disasters.
in writing. ‒ i share the european solidarity shown towards areas affected by natural disasters or other serious crises in the eu solidarity fund and therefore strongly agree with the need for an urgent eu response.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal as it is mainly a technical measure to facilitate the provision of funds to victims of natural disasters.
in writing. ‒ the eu solidarity fund is used to provide financial assistance to member states in the event of large-scale natural disasters. slovakia has in the past used assistance from the fund to deal with the consequences of a windstorm in the high tatras and floods that affected the whole of central europe. the resolution adopted does not concern a specific event requiring european solidarity, but is intended to make future aid more effective by making it possible to pay part of the funds in advance before a formal decision to activate the fund is taken. this will allow for a faster response to the needs of the member state affected by the disaster and will make aid more effective.
in writing. ‒ the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016 is hereby definitively adopted, with the adoption of the report on the common draft text of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016. the budget contains an overall package of 89 pilot projects/preparatory actions with a total commitment appropriation of eur 64,9 million in the form proposed by parliament. as part of this next year's package, i have launched a pilot project in the parliament's libe committee, entitled 'a colourful europe', which specifically aims to eliminate various forms of discrimination against indigenous minorities, including through education, training, forums. the commission has awarded a total of eur 1 million to the pilot project, of which eur 500 000 will be available to applicants from minority communities in a first step next year through calls for proposals. i voted for the adoption of the budget.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament approves the joint text on the budgetary procedure for 2016, after agreement with the conciliation committee. the document submitted consists of the files, lists, summary data and final texts which provide a summary overview of the 2016 budget, amending budget no 8/2015 and joint declarations of the european institutions. i have long held the view that the european budget should be an investment and support the competitiveness of the member states and their regions. i am pleased that €14.3 million has been earmarked for smes, €184.5 million for the eu's horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and €150 million for infrastructure. the good news for young hardworking people is that the budget for the erasmus+ student exchange programme has been increased by €6.6 million. i believe that the funds will help young people to obtain a quality education that they can then apply in their professional lives.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the joint text of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016, which was adopted by the conciliation committee in the framework of the budgetary procedure. the joint text shall include the following parts: the 2016 budget, the 2015 budget amending budget no 8/2015 and joint statements. the total amount of commitment appropriations in the 2016 budget is eur 155 004,2 million. the total amount of the reserve for 2016 remains below the ceiling of the multiannual financial framework at eur 2 331,4 million in commitment appropriations. the joint declarations recall that reducing youth unemployment remains a high and common political priority and to this end reaffirm their commitment to make the best use of available budgetary resources to address it, and in particular the youth employment initiative.
in writing. ‒ by adopting the proposals, we have expressed our support for education, job creation, smes and their further development and competitiveness, the importance of regional cooperation, as well as the serious and equally topical issues of migration, asylum and their solutions for the future.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the proposal, as i reject a substantial increase in the budget of the european union. the eu budget has a huge margin for reduction and the proposal to increase it is therefore completely out of touch with reality.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the mobilisation of the solidarity fund to secure the payment of advances under the 2016 budget. unlike previous cases of mobilisation of the solidarity fund, this case did not concern a specific event but proposed in advance to mobilise the solidarity fund up to eur 50 million to cover the 2016 advances. i agree with this measure because it will allow for a faster response to emergencies that may occur in 2016, thereby helping countries affected by natural disasters to get a quick advance and to cope with at least the most necessary expenses. such rapid response, made possible by the mobilisation of the fund, is invaluable in the event of natural disasters.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament rejected a proposal by the european commission to grant an authorisation for a composition of recycled soft pvc containing bis[2-ethylhexyl]-phthalate (dehp). this substance was already classified as toxic for reproduction in 2006 due to its composition and effects. it is surprising that, despite the existence of suitable alternatives to dehp, the applicant did not submit a comprehensive analysis of them for the uses indicated in the application. the ep stressed the need to protect human health and the environment. this was the clear reason why the european parliament called on the commission to submit a new proposal rejecting the application for authorisation of dehp.
in writing. ‒ dehp is a known toxic substance of very high concern due to its reproductive toxicity and endocrine disruption in the environment. there is growing evidence of adverse effects on humans, yet this substance is used in everyday products. since the substance is not chemically bound to the plastic, it easily leaks into the environment, which i find alarming. the companies failed to ensure a sufficient level of control of exposure to the risks, nor to demonstrate whether the socioeconomic benefits outweigh the health risks. there are safer alternatives, but no comprehensive analysis of alternatives on the market has been provided. parliament therefore asks the commission to submit a new proposal.
in writing. ‒ i am of the opinion that the adoption of legislation authorising the use of bis (2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (dehp) by the commission was not a fortunate move, especially given the prevailing concerns about the harmfulness of this substance. i therefore supported the draft objection by which the european parliament calls on the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision and to submit a new proposal to reject applications for authorisation of recycled dehp soft pvc.
in writing. ‒ i support the ep's opinion calling on the commission to withdraw its implementing decision and to submit a new proposal rejecting the application for authorisation for a composition of recycled soft pvc containing dehp. dehp is present in many types of pvc widely used in everyday consumer products such as textiles, furniture and building materials. this substance is chemically bound to plastics, and therefore easily leaks into the environment. however, caution should be exercised in the use of dehp as current scientific evidence suggests that exposure to these compounds during the sensitive period may have serious effects on human health, in particular may have serious effects on reproduction. in addition, adverse effects on human life caused by exposure during the early life stages may not manifest until later in life. phthalates known to be endocrine disrupting and toxic to reproduction should not be present in products that are freely available to the public and may be encountered by children. the commission is also responsible for protecting citizens and the environment from dangerous chemicals. it is therefore inconceivable that innovation in product manufacturing should take precedence over human health.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the proposal, as it is in direct contradiction with scientific knowledge and may ultimately do more harm than good to the environment.
in writing. ‒ the many member states have introduced or intend to introduce measures to tackle tax evasion, in particular with regard to restrictions on the deductibility of interest, anti-abuse rules, a better definition of the concept of permanent establishment. without a cooperative approach, unilateral measures taken by member states against tax base infringements may contribute to increasing complexity, creating new inconsistencies and consequently more opportunities for tax evasion within the internal market. the latest proposal from the european commission aims to move towards better coordination of member states' tax systems with a view to strengthening the internal market, tackling double taxation or double non-taxation and preserving the right of member states to collect taxes effectively.
in writing. ‒ speculation, tax havens, tax evasion, fraud, speculative capital movements are costing every european citizen hundreds of euros a year. european countries lose more than a trillion euros a year. individual tax policies disadvantage other economies. the solution is common procedures. if a country does not cooperate, the commission must intervene. the tax systems of the member states differ considerably in terms of the tax base and the tax rate. while tax policy is a priority area of national competence, cross-border trade, the free movement of capital and labour, globalisation and the digitalisation of trade and markets will require some key tax policy issues to be set by the eu. structural changes in the member states and the eu therefore need to include a fair, balanced and transparent reform of tax systems.
in writing. ‒ the the globalisation of the economy is changing the way individual markets work. the majority of companies are now multinational in nature and structure, thus going beyond the scope of national tax rules. a fair tax policy needs to be introduced as part of the structural reforms of the member states. the uncoordinated tax framework is the result of insufficient cooperation between member states. improvement could be achieved through automatic and systematic exchange of information, but the current monitoring framework is not effective because the requirements are not being met. inconsistencies between tax systems at global level are the cause of distortions of the tax base and result in significant tax evasion. i stress that action at union level alone will not be sufficient to address these issues. i welcome the commission's commitment to promote automatic exchange of information as the future european and international standard for transparency. tax rulings should aim to provide legal certainty, improve transparency and enhance cooperation between member states in tax policy at union level. i am of the opinion that the member states should retain full power to set their own corporate tax rates. however, i insist that tax competition within the eu and with third countries should be governed by a clear framework of rules to guarantee fair competition between companies in the internal market.
in writing. ‒ multinational companies often exploit current legislative adjustments to tax policy to adjust their taxable profits and reduce their overall tax burden. it is important to combat these practices. at the same time, however, this situation must not be misused to promote the eu's common tax policy, which is the exclusive competence of the member states. i therefore had to vote against this motion in the resolution on tax rulings and other measures of a similar nature or effect.
in writing. ‒ the recent luxleaks scandal has brought the public's attention to the aggressive tax planning practices of large multinationals. the disclosures that corporations use tax transactions that allow them to pay almost no taxes are not new, but after this scandal it was possible to point to specific companies and specific practices. the european parliament has therefore set up a special committee of inquiry which has now produced its report, containing all the most important measures to prevent such dubious tax operations. i am convinced that the existing corporate tax models, which date back to the first half of the 20th century, are not suitable for today's globalised and digitalised economy, as most large companies today have a multinational structure. i therefore support the proposals which, according to the results of the inquiry, should lead to a limitation of corporate tax deductions. the commission should first conclude the legislative form of a common consolidated corporate tax base at pan-european level. it is also necessary to establish a central register for the exchange of information on tax rulings between countries and a european list of tax havens. last but not least, european legislation should better protect whistleblowers, as they are the only ones who can help to uncover such cases. i hope that the work of the committee will continue, because tax avoidance is a problem that we will encounter regularly in a globalised world.
in writing. ‒ we must do everything possible to combat tax evasion and fraud as effectively as possible, but at the same time we must reject any attempt to limit the tax sovereignty of the member states. the whole european economy would suffer greatly.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the proposal because i do not agree with steps that facilitate or even directly lead to tax harmonisation in the european union. genuine competition between tax systems is essential for the competitiveness of the european union.
in writing. ‒ slovakia is a country that suffers from tax evasion by large companies on the one hand, but on the other hand has a weak infrastructure, so it has to offer investors tax incentives to create jobs here. our interest therefore lies in the intersection between eliminating tax evasion and fraud and preserving the tax sovereignty of the member states. i therefore support the harmonisation of tax terminology in the eu, as well as the introduction of an obligation for multinational companies to provide profit and tax data for each country in which they operate. decisions on their taxation in the individual member states must not be subject to secrecy. however, i have doubts about the need to introduce a common consolidated corporate tax base i believe that such a move should be preceded by a professional discussion of its implications for less developed member states.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the report on the cases of favourable tax agreements between luxembourg and large multinationals. while i condemn the practice of states concluding agreements with large companies in order to increase their attractiveness to multinational companies and thus their competitive advantage in tax competition, i refuse to support the idea that to prevent such practices tax harmonisation at european level is necessary, including mandatory consolidated corporate income tax or a common definition of a minimum tax rate.
in writing. ‒ the european union must stop the radicalisation of citizens in individual member states, which unfortunately often leads to their going to fight on behalf of terrorist organisations, which commit the most heinous acts against the civilian population. it is estimated that more than 5000 european union citizens are already fighting for these terrorist organisations. in paris on november 13th, terrorist organizations showed us how terribly cruel they can be and that they will stop at nothing. law enforcement measures alone are no longer enough to combat the acceleration of this phenomenon. the european union must adopt a new strategy that is more strongly based on prevention. the representatives of the member states and the institutions of the european union must take effective action to ensure that such a terrible disaster for the civilian population is never repeated. however, in the fight against radicalisation, we must not forget about respect for fundamental human rights and freedoms, in particular freedom of expression.
in writing. ‒ the the events of recent months and the failure of the union and some of its member states to protect their citizens point to serious failures of eu policies. the states have failed in their fundamental role. inadequate asylum policies, the failure to manage the influx of migrants, the failure to address poverty in the eu and globally can have very serious impacts on people around the world in the near future. not only does war breed poverty and violence, but the opposite is also true. the measures proposed can only be effective if we all take responsibility for humanity on earth and if all the authorities concerned take a responsible approach to implementing these measures. the resources allocated to these measures must not be subject to corruption and various forms of speculation.
in writing. ‒ the attacks in paris and their victims are a literal and unmistakable challenge to us to do everything we can to prevent terrorism from radicalising europeans and spreading globally. in a situation where it is estimated that more than 5 000 european citizens have gone to fight alongside terrorist organisations in iraq and syria, i consider the report on the prevention of radicalisation and recruitment of european citizens by terrorist organisations to be of the utmost importance. however, in the context of all the technical measures to deal with the consequences of radicalisation and to reduce the risks it entails, the main idea of this report, namely the prevention of this phenomenon, must also be adhered to. in this connection, questions about its causes are very serious. one is the statistic that depression is suddenly the number one cause of health problems among youths between the ages of 10 and 19. look for connections, for example, with the loss of family values and the unbridled relativism that is increasingly becoming the guiding principle of political decisions in europe.
in writing. ‒ in these difficult times, it is particularly important that the european union acts as a credible and active actor in the fight against terrorism. it is not enough to repeat ourselves and stress the seriousness of the situation and the importance of a joint and decisive response. we need to create tools that deliver real solutions, and this report is a good starting point. with a threat of this magnitude, we need to do more than cooperate among member states, to rally additional allies and to strengthen our ties with those already in place. i think we can make a successful alliance with russia, for example. but to do that, we must put aside our differences and put our common goals first. the most important factor in the fight against terrorism is the rapid access to information. this is why it is important to work with the right partners to obtain data that can help us prevent potential attacks and expose terrorist groups.
in writing. - i was in favour of the dati report for several reasons. the radicalisation of european citizens poses a serious challenge to the european community. i very much welcome the inclusion of many of the ecr shadow rapporteur's observations in the final report and this strategy to prevent radicalisation as a whole. the need for coordination between europol, eurojust and cepol is a prerequisite for preventing and detecting radicalisation, as well as for cooperation with internet service providers to stop radicalisation taking place on the internet.
in writing. ‒ the report says that more than 5 000 european citizens have joined terrorist organisations and other military formations outside the eu, mainly in the middle east and north africa region. i am concerned that the increase in radicalisation of populations in countries beyond the eu's borders affected by internal conflicts is increasingly threatening the security situation of eu countries. i supported the resolution because i believe that, given the current situation (if it is not too late), it is necessary to focus on preventing radicalisation and eliminating the factors that underlie it. while the fight against terrorism and the prevention of radicalisation and recruitment of european citizens by organisations is primarily a competence of the member states, i support all eu activities that can suppress the manifestations of extremism and the process of radicalisation. i believe that only through an effective and rational approach will we achieve effective and efficient results in law enforcement in order to combat the cross-border threats posed by terrorism. but i continue to see as a priority the stopping of the arms trade of all kinds, which currently poses the greatest threat to european citizens.
in writing. ‒ radicalism and extremism are rooted in frustration. young people have come to feel that they have no prospects in life. we can only change this by promoting employment growth, quality education and an open approach to discussing their problems.
in writing. ‒ i support and welcome measures that serve to suppress terrorism without restricting the freedom of innocent people.
in writing. ‒ if we want to maintain a schengen area without border controls, where citizens can move freely from one country to another (whether for work or as tourists), a unified european approach is needed, because terrorists have the same freedom of movement. the first and most important prerequisite for success is the exchange of information between member states. a vulnerable area is often the failure of states to anticipate the departure of recruited young people to fight wars abroad, as well as their return. the report calls for the adoption of a directive on passenger name recorders, which parliament has blocked in the past out of concern about the misuse of citizens' personal data and the infringement of their right to privacy. specific measures also concern the separation of prisoners who have been supporters of violent extremism or recruited by terrorist organisations from other prisoners, stricter control of hate-speech websites, support for tools to report illegal content online easily and quickly, either directly via the internet or via a 'hotline', a whole series of measures concerning education in schools, and so on. but the key to prevention, i believe, is the family, which has long been ignored by state policy.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the prevention of radicalisation and recruitment of european citizens by terrorist organisations. in the face of the recent terrorist attacks, the european union must address the question of what leads young people to sympathize with terrorist organisations, what are the roots of the departure of an alarming number of young people to syria and how can we prevent their radicalisation. in my view, the report struck the right balance and encouraged member states in particular to cooperate with each other, exchange good practice and coordinate policies in order to act as effectively as possible on this issue, which has a significant impact on the whole of the european union.
in writing. ‒ more than 4 000 workers die each year in work-related accidents and more than 150 000 die each year from work-related fatal diseases. good health is a fundamental right in europe and, although significant progress has been made over the years in the field of health and safety at work, there are still major risks to the health and safety of workers. the report, which i voted in favour of, which responds to the commission communication on the eu strategic framework on health and safety at work 2014-2020, stresses the need to ensure the highest level of protection of workers' health and welcomes the eu strategic framework on this subject, although it lacks specific legislation, such as the directive on musculoskeletal diseases. the report points out that the economic crisis has increased job insecurity and the rate of atypical employment, but this should not blind us to the importance of health and safety at work. the report urges the commission, inter alia, to give special priority to sectors where workers are most at risk and to develop guidelines and encourage the exchange of good practice in the implementation of occupational health and safety policies.
in writing. ‒ occupational health and safety protection is at a very high level in europe and has always been one of the main priorities in the development of strong legislation by the european commission. however, 4 000 workers die each year as a result of an accident at work and the number of fatal diseases is over 150 000 each year, so there is considerable room for improvement, as workers in the member states of the european union age and demographic changes in the composition of the population must also be reflected in the adoption of a european union strategic framework on health and safety at work for the period 2014-2020. i therefore welcome the fact that the european commission has identified the pressing issues facing european employers and employees on a daily basis. if the objective of a safe and healthy working environment for all european workers is to be achieved, additional concrete measures should be included in the framework. we have to face the reality, and that is that the labour market in europe has changed in the last 20 years. uncertain employment is on the rise and new forms of employment as well as new technologies have brought new challenges that need to be addressed urgently.
in writing. ‒ the the right of all employed people to the highest level of health and safety protection at work is unquestionable. despite the high level of legal protection in place, it is not always applied consistently. as a result, 4,000 people die each year from work-related accidents, and another 150,000 suffer fatal illnesses as a result. these figures clearly show that new solutions and measures must be constantly adopted to respond to current working conditions and at the same time to the risks faced by workers, with a focus on prevention. to this end, the institutions must be more rigorous in their responsibility for supervising the performance of their tasks. they must emphasise the need to take preventive measures and must provide continuous training to their staff.
in writing. ‒ as good working conditions are a fundamental right of the european union's citizens under the charter of rights, i welcome the presentation of the eu strategic framework on health and safety at work for the period 2014-2020. i particularly support the need to address psychosocial risk factors, which are currently a growing problem for employers and employees across europe. the economic crisis has led to an increase in job insecurity, which is reflected in the fact that according to a europe-wide survey, up to half of employees experience work stress on a daily basis, with about half of all missed working days being related to it. moreover, these absences are usually longer than those caused by other reasons. the costs involved at national level are in the billions of euros. case studies show that good osh management leads to higher performance and profitability. each euro invested in it will thus return up to €2,2. in most countries, the cost of occupational accidents and diseases is generally between 2.6% and 3.8% of gdp.
in writing. ‒ while i welcome the progress made in recent years in the field of health and safety at work, i must also criticise the fact that despite these successes, many problems still arise at workplaces that threaten workers. i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe that it is essential to continue to adopt, within the strategic framework, further measures to guarantee even greater protection for workers and to create a level playing field for all companies, regardless of their size, location or sector of activity. i also supported the resolution because i believe that europe needs to ensure even safer and healthier working environments for the more than 217 million workers in the eu. i am convinced that any investment in health and safety at work will have a positive impact on growth and higher labour productivity, reducing accidents and reducing the incidence of serious diseases. it is important that we build on existing legislation on health and safety at work by taking measures that will contribute to better and more effective compliance in all member states and in enterprises. i expect that the adoption of the strategic framework will bring much greater attention to the health and safety at work of older workers, disabled workers and women who require special measures.
in writing. - i did not support the motion. of course, i support greater protection of health and safety at work. however, the challenges presented in the proposal lead to increased regulatory burdens and over-priced employment, ultimately harming those most affected by the proposal. i also have doubts about whether the challenges presented are in line with the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. ‒ i supported the parliament's resolution on health and safety at work, although i had reservations about the terminology 'gender equality' used in some linguistic mutations of this text. as i have repeatedly stressed, i fully support the principle of equal treatment between women and men, while respecting the specific differences which are biologically determined and linked to the woman's mission as a mother. i consider the use of the term 'gender' in contexts that speak of the need to take into account the specific needs of women in terms of safety and health at work, or their greater vulnerability as potential victims of sexual harassment and bullying by male co-workers or superiors, to be counterproductive, as it distracts from the real issues. i will therefore continue to stress the need to harmonise the translations of parliament's resolutions and working texts.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the report on the eu strategic framework for health and safety at work. i think the idea of health and safety at work is very important and the prevention of health problems, whether physical, with a special focus on musculoskeletal disorders, or psychological, which can arise from adverse effects at work, should be an important part of european policies. unfortunately, however, the proposal contained several elements that i could not support, in particular calls for the european commission to present new comprehensive legal instruments to tackle this problem. i am of the opinion that not every situation requires the creation of new and complex legal instruments which would only add to the body of legislation and which could ultimately lead to even greater uniformity within the european union.
europe has forgotten about security. the european leaders have fatally locked themselves into virtual federalist bubbles and have forgotten the world around them. european nations today have little defense capability. we give 143 million euros to the agency frontex, which protects the external borders, and just for comparison, the border protection of the united states costs 32 billion dollars. the paris attackers were french and belgian nationals. they are the descendants of refugees who came to europe, and we have to ask ourselves why the second and third generations did not become committed citizens of their own countries. what are the causes of the spread of hatred and fear? according to research by the british think-tank quilliam, some 40 million muslims are engaged in jihad, or armed struggle against unbelievers. that's 40 million people who might want to exploit the refugee crisis today to infiltrate europe. and thousands of them are already on our continent. in our democracy, we have allowed hate preachers to operate in the prisons of young muslims' minds. apart from the winged rhetoric of european politicians, i lack a sober leadership for the 21st century. will europe adopt comprehensive security measures or will we live in fear of which city they will choose next?
no terrorist would go out and get a gun passport and a permit to buy a gun legally, register it with the police, and then commit a terrorist attack. that is why no terrorist attacks are committed with legally owned weapons. terrorists will bring all the weapons they need to europe because we have open the schengen border to the utmost. i consider that restricting the legal possession of weapons, as proposed by mr juncker recently under the guise of combating terrorism, is a supremely perfidious step. it seems to me that the european commission, led by mr juncker, is trying to disarm decent people so that they cannot defend themselves. you say you're fighting terrorists, but you're actually stealing freedom from decent people. you're facilitating the activities of terrorists by your impotence. if you restrict legal gun ownership, you're not going to save a single victim, because terrorists don't use legal guns.
mr president, while europe is facing an unprecedented refugee and migration crisis, this summit should have been a step towards dialogue on management of the flows from africa. although we have not reached a clear solution, we need to continue this dialogue and concentrate on the root causes of the migration. it is clear that they will not disappear overnight, but there has to be an understanding that this is not only a european problem but a much broader problem. it has been recognised as a global concern, with major political and economic consequences. we therefore have to keep a continuous dialogue with african countries going, as well as with countries of the middle east. the eu and its member states should be at the forefront of these initiatives. we have much more to offer than just a safe harbour for refugees fleeing conflicts and failed states. we are a leading partner in development programmes and humanitarian aid all around the globe. along with the security measures, we need to invest more experience and expertise and also resources in development policies. we have a handful of governments in europe whose answer to the refugee crisis has been to point to the root causes. i think that now is the time to ask them for their real contribution.
mr president, i would also like to commend myanmar on the conduct of elections with an historical importance. the citizens of myanmar demonstrated their will, which was translated into election victory for the national league for democracy (nld). the crucial question however is: what will happen now? the process brought the country closer to democracy. however, there is still a lot to be done. i want to believe that the nld will be able to start the reform process in myanmar. at the same time, national reconciliation and inclusiveness need to be high on the agenda. this will be a true challenge for mrs aung san suu kyi. we in the european union have a lot of experience with such transition processes, therefore we should be ready to assist our partners in myanmar on the road ahead. i want to ask the high representative to follow the situation after the elections and be ready to propose assistance to the country.
mr president, in the context of the current european neighbourhood policy, i would like to make it clear that those countries that wish to pursue deeper relations with the eu should be fully supported. at the same time, it should be clear that such countries have to live up to certain standards. georgia is one of the countries which has shown dedication to its european path through political association and economic integration. georgia should have our support in further developing its relations with the eu just as in defending its territorial integrity. for instance, we should move forward on energy market integration with georgia through the energy community. having said that, i would also like to urge georgia’s political leaders to fight their political battles in the parliament and not via pre-trial detention or jail. there have to be clear lines for the rule of law and fair democratic processes.
for the ecr group. millions of children are prevented by war conflicts from attending school, where they could not only gain a sense of security but also a vision of a better future for themselves and their country. given that education is not a priority for countries in crisis and that development aid from european union member states is alarmingly low, many children remain unable to access basic schooling. but we can change this situation as individuals. and this is through the adoption programmes that are operating, i assume, in all eu countries. in slovakia, it is dedicated, for example, to the foundation dobrota za afriku, slovenská katolická charita, as well as the integra foundation. each of us can save at least one child by adopting from afar.
it's the same song year after year. the european court of auditors finds a high number of errors, more than twice what is allowed, and the european parliament approves it. twenty-one years in a row. the report is the subject of 60% of the european court of auditors' budget, which is ignored by this honourable parliament. would it not be much more sensible to abolish the european court of auditors as a whole? it's completely useless. now, to the expenses themselves. there's just a high error rate of those expenses. there's also a huge amount of corruption. these expenditures often result in distortions of the economy. commissioner, if you want to leave a legacy, start cutting back on these expenses. they're not really bringing real growth. how many billions of euros have been spent on fighting unemployment, and what is the unemployment rate? just look at that. that's a completely unnecessary redistribution. i know that with mr juncker it will not be possible, because he wants to spend more and more, but maybe we can at least do something. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. mr. zdechovsky, you come from a country where corruption is as bad as i do. i am not saying that the european parliament or the european court of auditors is corrupt. neither does the european commission. but in your country, in ours, in mine and in many other countries, bulgaria, romania, there is corruption all the way up there. because those people are so into it, the money just fell out of the sky. you're asking why i should report it? well, for instance, we've filed over 50 criminal complaints, you might have some, too. we know how it goes when we talk about money that doesn't belong to anyone.
in writing. ‒ the doha round is a series of negotiations between the ministers of economy and trade of the wto member states that have been ongoing since 2001. the ep's report will be updated at the 10th wto ministerial conference, which will be held in kenya from 15 to 18 december, for the first time in an african country. the current decision, according to the european parliament, should take full account of the needs and interests of developing countries. it would be important to redefine the concept of developing countries, e.g. china is still considered a developing country. furthermore, the european parliament supports the structural reform of the wto, which would ensure a fair, non-discriminatory and transparent trading system, taking into account the interests and role of trading actors, including smes, micro-enterprises and start-ups. the decision encourages wto members to do their utmost to bring the doha round to a successful conclusion as soon as possible and to ratify and implement the global trade facilitation agreement. i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ it is essential that all wto members promptly ratify and implement the trade facilitation agreement so that it can enter into force before the opening of the 10th ministerial conference in december. this agreement will bring significant benefits to all wto members, in particular developing countries and relevant economic operators, by enhancing transparency and legal certainty and reducing administrative costs and the length of customs procedures, allowing them to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by the growing predominance of regional and global supply chains, while enabling smes to benefit from more open markets. i therefore welcome the progress made so far on multilateral initiatives such as the environmental goods agreement and the information technology agreement, and on initiatives such as the trade in services agreement.
in writing. ‒ the doha round aims to strengthen multilateral trade rules and thereby create a favourable environment for new trade opportunities for developed, but also developing and least developed countries, which have long been marginalised in the world trading system. i consider it natural that the multilateral trading system should be based on fair and objective rules that will contribute to the economic development of all countries, with particular regard to the specificities of developing countries, where it is necessary to ensure the achievement of development objectives such as the eradication of poverty and hunger and the provision of basic health and sanitation.
in writing. ‒ the main objectives of the world trade organisation (wto) are to facilitate international trade and to successfully integrate the economies of developing countries into world trade. the doha agenda, adopted at the wto ministerial meeting in 2001, was designed to promote these core values. this development schedule is undoubtedly worth continuing to follow. but this will require certain changes and multilateral reforms, which will be a priority at the nairobi ministerial conference. the achievement of the agenda's objectives requires structural reform of the wto and the reclassification of developing countries and economies, but perhaps even more importantly, the adoption and implementation of new, functioning international agreements, and not least, the encouragement of member states to implement national economic changes.
in writing. ‒ as regards the european parliament legislative resolution on the current status of the doha development agenda ahead of the 10th wto ministerial conference, i voted in favour of adopting this resolution. the document presented reflects appropriately the current state of play of the doha round. the resolution stresses the need for a clear definition of developing countries, as it is necessary to point to the different needs and levels of economic development between low-income and least developed countries.
in writing. - 10 years the wto ministerial conference will be held in kenya from 15 to 18 december 2015 and will be the first wto ministerial conference to be held in an african country. it is important that the special needs and interests of low-income developing countries and least developed countries are fully taken into account in the negotiations. it will be important to establish a clear definition of low-income developing countries and emerging economies. i supported the motion for a resolution, which, inter alia, supports the wto's structural reforms to better guarantee an open, fair and non-discriminatory trading system based on common and applied rules, which takes greater account of the role and interests of different economic actors such as smes, micro-enterprises and innovative start-ups. the resolution points to liberalisation as an important tool for ensuring sustainable economic growth and development, although it needs to be complemented by appropriate accompanying policies involving macro- and micro-economic measures, including transparent budgeting, fiscal policies, tax equality, institutional reforms and social policies, in order to maximise and better distribute the benefits of trade reforms and more effectively counterbalance the negative impacts.
in writing. ‒ we support structural reforms of the world trade organisation with a view to ensuring an open, transparent and non-discriminatory trading system that takes greater account of the role and interests of smes and innovative start-ups. for this reason, i welcome the progress made on initiatives such as the information technology agreement and the services agreement.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament should be informed about the implementation of action plans by governments and accompanying measures adopted by the european commission through cooperation programmes, in particular in relation to education, training, regulatory cooperation and the creation of socioeconomic opportunities for the most disadvantaged sections of society and the promotion of progress in democracy, respect for human and workers' rights and environmental protection. it is important that ecuador adopt similar measures to those of colombia and peru in the field of labour rights and the environment. however, the adoption of these reforms must not lose sight of the protection and preservation of indigenous and local communities, which embody traditional ways of life, and their importance for the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity.
in writing. the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement will benefit trade and investment on both sides. increased, transparent and fair trade is an important stimulus for economic and social development, and will contribute to poverty alleviation and inequality.
in writing. ‒ ecuador's accession to the existing trade agreement between eu member states and colombia and peru could bring many positive changes for both parties. both peru and the union need to increase their market, especially in terms of exports. and this kind of expansion stimulates trade, which is the basis of social and economic development. however, we know that in the countries mentioned above, serious violations of human rights are frequent. as the protection of human rights and democracy are among the eu's priorities, these principles should also be emphasised in our relations with the andean countries. only then can we be able to ensure a level playing field for everyone in this convention.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, and colombia and peru. i support ecuador's efforts to integrate more deeply into the international trading community, but also its commitments to protect its natural cultural heritage, such as the galapagos islands with their rare endemic species.
in writing. ‒ the ecuadorian government has invested $40.8 billion in the social sector over the past eight years, in access to education, healthcare and social security, including through specific programmes for the benefit of the most vulnerable groups such as children, the elderly and people with disabilities. ecuador is also succeeding in improving the conditions of its indigenous communities, which are adversely affected by corporate mining strategies. i therefore welcome the conclusion of negotiations with ecuador on the protocol on its accession to the eu-colombia-peru trade agreement. this agreement will bring ecuador many benefits linked to exports to the eu, while serving as an important stimulus to economic and social development and contributing to poverty alleviation and inequality reduction. on the other hand, it is important that ecuador ensure consistency of its policies with the obligations arising from the wto and the trade agreement and ensure full transparency and extensive consultation with stakeholders prior to their adoption. as regards environmental issues, it should be noted that despite the country's efforts, ecuador and neighboring countries face intensive deforestation, significant loss of biodiversity, water pollution, and soil erosion. ecuador and the eu should therefore also conclude an agreement on cooperation in the field of environment and support for anti-deforestation programmes. this would in particular contribute to improving the living conditions of the local population.
in writing. ‒ promoting bilateral economic and trade agreements and relations between states and developing free trade agreements in a global context means ambitious and beneficial partnerships that bring ever more opportunities for the development of european states.
in writing. ‒ the although over 30 basic animal welfare acts have been adopted in the last 30 years, many of which provide for different levels of animal protection, many existing legal acts do not recognise animals as sentient beings. the european union needs to do more to ensure that current animal welfare legislation is properly enforced and implemented. it is essential that any harmonisation of the legislative framework in the future does not lead to a decrease in the level of animal welfare or a reduction in the ambition to improve animal welfare. the european commission needs to strengthen existing standards on the basis of up-to-date scientific knowledge and in the light of international trade negotiations with third countries where there is not the same level of protection.
in writing. animal welfare affects public health in a number of ways. the european union has some of the strictest animal welfare rules. i consider it essential that these conditions continue to be met and that the commission prepare legislation in this area for the period 2016-2020 that responds promptly to the latest scientific research.
in writing. ‒ the the issue of animal welfare is a topical and sensitive one, as it requires taking account of a multitude of diverse interests, legislation and coordinating the level of welfare within the eu countries. i take it for granted that animal abuse must be prevented by setting appropriate standards of care and by regulating transport and husbandry conditions, which should be addressed at european level. the challenge remains to find the right rate and to develop an effective strategy that does not become unnecessarily burdensome for farmers and producers when implemented. in conclusion, i would like to stress the importance of continuing to promote high-quality european meat production. in this context, i would like to reiterate the fact that the european parliament has rejected the production of meat from cloned animals.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution on a new animal welfare strategy for 2016-2020 because we need to be able to ensure safe food of animal origin in the eu. but we also need to ensure that the new strategy does not create additional administrative burdens and costs for our farmers. i also appreciate the efforts of farmers to ensure the welfare of animals.
in writing. ‒ the recently, eu citizens have become increasingly sensitive to animal welfare. since it is important that citizens have the possibility to decide what food they will consume, the commission should proceed to develop a common strategy concerning the conditions under which animals are kept. i therefore agree with the ep's opinion, which calls on the commission to take into account the latest scientific research showing shortcomings in the housing conditions to which animals are exposed. european legislation, in its current form, is too fragmented and creates legal uncertainty that puts producers at a disadvantage and does not provide sufficient certainty for consumers. it is therefore necessary to harmonise animal welfare rules taking into account new scientific findings. however, the commission should first of all bear in mind that animals are often kept for mass production in conditions that are inhumane. animal welfare should be further improved on the basis of the prevailing scientific knowledge and with due regard to the efficiency and competitiveness of livestock farming. a high standard of animal welfare is important for ensuring sustainability, although it is associated with investments and additional operating costs.
in writing. ‒ the there is no doubt that progress has been made in the area of education for children in emergencies and protracted crises since the adoption of the millennium development goals, but the 2015 targets will not be met. the eradication of poverty, universal access to education and gender equality can only be achieved through the development of public services accessible to all. progress in education has been slowest in countries affected by conflict and in fragile and conflict-affected states. it is important to strengthen the resilience of education systems in these countries and to ensure continuity of learning in times of crisis. the european union, the member states and other stakeholders involved at different levels need to be more involved in order to provide the tools to ensure development and universal education in such crisis-affected countries. however, i welcome the growing international attention to this issue. the european union must continue to support the commitment of third country governments to develop national legal frameworks focusing on resilience, disaster prevention and risk management on the basis of an international legislative agenda.
in writing. children are among the most vulnerable groups in a crisis. threats to their lives, health and lack of adequate education are deteriorating their quality of life, contributing to the spread of poverty and posing a serious threat to future generations. the consequences of lack of education are a serious factor even after the crisis has ended. combined with poverty, this creates the conditions for the emergence of local centers of further unrest and conflict. i fully support the adoption of measures to ensure that children are provided with education, especially during protracted crises, and to create the conditions for their return to school and to normal life.
in writing. ‒ the un estimates that one billion children live in conflict-affected areas, where they are denied the basic right to education by not being able to attend school or by having to interrupt school for long periods because of conflict or crisis. children and young people who have not attended or stopped attending school face many risks, ranging from poverty, loss of future opportunities for adequate employment, to the threat of exploitation, trafficking or recruitment into terrorist or extremist groups. i am convinced that education also plays a crucial role in the long-term reconstruction of post-conflict societies, as it offers the prospect of better integration into the workplace and thus the possibility of breaking out of poverty while contributing to economic growth. otherwise, the lack of education and positive opportunities leads to deepening frustration and discontent, which are the breeding ground for criminal and anti-social activities, violence and extremism. i therefore support eu investment in education in emergencies and fragile conditions and commend the meritorious work of all humanitarian and development actors working closely together on the important link between aid, recovery and development.
in writing. ‒ with the rapid increase in the number of areas affected by conflict and disaster, the european union, as one of the most important actors in world politics, has a duty to help countries in desperate situations. in addition to providing rapid and direct humanitarian assistance, long-term measures are also of paramount importance. the permanent conflict has deprived the inhabitants of these areas of the possibility to exercise their fundamental rights, such as the right to education. this can lead to a so-called lost generation, which is a serious threat to the development and transformation of society. that is why we need a proposal that fully supports the education of children from conflict-affected countries, with a special focus on girls and disadvantaged youth.
in writing. ‒ i consider education to be one of the most important investments in our children's future and a key tool to eradicate poverty in the world. it is important to ensure access to quality education also in countries affected by conflict, fighting and instability. that is why i voted to adopt this resolution on education for children in emergencies and protracted crises.
in writing. ‒ education is a fundamental human right and the right of every child and is of key importance for their further development and development and for their fulfilment in life. education is a prerequisite for the enjoyment of all other rights, such as social, economic, cultural and political rights. the united nations estimates that some one billion children live in conflict-affected areas. it is estimated that up to 65 million children aged 3 to 15 are most affected by emergencies and protracted crises and are at risk of interruption or discontinuation of education. currently, an estimated 19 million children are displaced by various conflicts, with no access to education. i supported the motion for a resolution because it sets out the system and possibilities for financing education for children in emergency situations and protracted crises. cooperation with humanitarian and voluntary organisations, individual member states, international organisations and the un is needed in this area. the draft resolution also stresses the need to increase funding for children's education and to respect all the initiatives, declarations and development programmes adopted in the past, which are often not implemented.
in writing. ‒ the best progress in aid to the developing world can be achieved in particular by promoting education, linking humanitarian and development aid and achieving coherence in eu policy in this area. the right to education for all children without distinction is a fundamental principle on which we should build all our further efforts on a global level.
in writing. ‒ in today's increasingly unstable situation, millions of children live in areas affected by conflict and millions of children are thus denied access to even basic education as a result of conflict. this situation contributes to the fact that children are not only directly threatened by the ongoing conflict in the country, which deprives them of their safety, but also their chances for a better future are threatened by the lack of education. these prospects are even worse for disadvantaged children, for children affected by poverty, for girls or for children with disabilities. and although the european union is the largest provider of humanitarian aid, education for children in conflict areas remains unattainable due to different priorities, uncoordinated systems and a lack of partners. this is why i was happy to support the report, which calls for more funding for education, but also for better cooperation with the private sector and donors.
in writing. ‒ the the reform of cohesion policy in the 2014-2020 programming period addressed simplification methods, but the application, management, reporting and control of the esi funds remain complex for both beneficiaries and managing authorities, especially where they have less administrative and financial capacity. the european commission must provide the member states and their regions with an implementation plan to streamline and simplify control, monitoring and reporting activities, including for beneficiaries, in order to remove obstacles to the smooth running of activities. the european commission and the member states must continue to promote the simplification of the rules governing financial instruments under the european structural and investment funds in order to better align them with the needs of beneficiaries and ultimately improve their use.
in writing. ‒ even after the reform of cohesion policy aimed at simplifying it, the application, management, reporting and control of the european structural and investment funds remain too complicated for many beneficiaries and managing authorities. i am particularly concerned about the unnecessary addition of new obligations during transposition at member state level, which go beyond the requirements of eu acts and create additional obstacles for beneficiaries and in particular local authorities and smes with smaller administrative and financial capacities. i therefore call on the member states to avoid complicated procedures, which only create unnecessary burdens for their own bodies, such as municipalities in particular, which are thus given the opportunity to develop with the help of european funds specifically allocated to regional development.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy is one of the eu's most effective and powerful tools for ensuring economic growth, sustainable development and job creation. however, the complex administrative and bureaucratic procedures and the high costs of control make it very difficult to access the funds provided by cohesion policy, and this in many cases discourages investors from starting various projects and applying for grants, leading to the loss of valuable ideas. that is why it is essential to reform our cohesion policy. it should be more transparent and simpler than it is in its present form. this will also increase the opportunities for smes and the uptake of poorer regions.
in writing. ‒ the in the new programming period, many adjustments have been made to the structural and investment funds, which help to simplify the bureaucratic burden for applicants. the commission is also working intensively on this problem through a group of independent experts set up specifically to monitor and improve simplification procedures. moreover, the various legislative texts have finally been brought together and all the funds are now subject to the same common provisions. i welcome all these initiatives by the commission, but on the other hand it must be acknowledged that reporting and monitoring in relation to the structural funds is still too complex for many beneficiaries. i also supported the resolution because it underlines the fact that complicated procedures and some complex rules can create a significant burden for beneficiaries, especially for entities that do not always have sufficient administrative capacity, such as smes, non-profit organisations or municipalities. in parallel, national authorities add obligations beyond the requirements of eu acts, thus creating a bottleneck in the transposition of european standards into national regulations. but many problems have been overcome. a good example is the digitalisation of the whole process, which allows the applicant to access all documents and administrative steps via a centralised website. i believe that this will reduce the time between the submission of the application and the payment of the funds considerably.
in writing. ‒ it is important to support the reform of cohesion policy in terms of rationalising and simplifying it. complicated procedures can create a significant burden, for example for small and medium-sized enterprises or municipalities that need eu funding but lack the financial and human resources as well as the expertise to successfully apply for eu funds.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution of the european parliament. it is true that the requirements for the various applications for funding from the european structural and investment funds are often too complicated, and this fact alone discourages many applicants. others have the problem of not being able to meet the vague conditions despite their efforts. these complicated procedures represent the most significant burden for smes, or municipalities, which need eu funding but do not have the resources and expertise to successfully apply. simplifying applications and eliminating or significantly reducing the administrative burden is therefore, in my view, the right step for a more efficient use of eu funds.
written turkey promised at the eu summit in brussels on sunday to prevent mainly syrian migrants from entering europe. turkey will detain illegal economic migrants, place them in detention centres paid for with eu money, and gradually return them to their homes. the important question is where the eu is going to get the three billion euros it will provide to build infrastructure and provide food and health assistance for the 2.5 million migrants to stay in turkey and not head for europe. the eu budget allocates only €500 million for this. the remaining 2.5 billion has to be found by the member states in their budgets. some european politicians are considering paying these costs from funds set aside to promote jobs and growth in eu countries, while others have suggested they could punish countries that have rejected all previous proposals from brussels to relocate refugees. both proposals are dangerous. they not only slow down the development of the less developed regions, but also increase tension within the community. it will be important for the eu to find solutions in this sensitive area not by force but by mutual agreement.
in writing. the accumulation of unprocessed waste places a huge burden on the environment, endangers the health of people living near landfills and also entails large expenditure on safety measures and future remediation of such sites. we should solve problems when they arise, not postpone them. nature knows no boundaries and all of humanity must contribute to its protection. advanced economies such as the member states of the european union and the united states have done much to combat climate change in the past, even at the cost of reducing their industrial production. further measures are necessary but cannot result in a reduction in economic growth or a threat to existing jobs. now it's up to countries like russia, china and india to follow us in our quest for a better environment for the entire planet.
first of all, i'd like to thank the associate taxpayers and the shadow tax colleagues for their work. it is very positive that parliament is responding to the ombudsman's concerns, because it is really important that there is a complaints mechanism for frontex procedures that really works. but this must be done with great sensitivity, so that the under-dimensioned frontex is not paralysed by administrative burdens and the conditions for abuse are not created. it would therefore not be appropriate to involve third parties unduly in the complaints mechanism. however, we need to develop a simple and reasonable method of representing unaccompanied minors and disabled persons. in the coming months and years, frontex is likely to have key tasks in the protection of the external borders and the implementation of the return directive. therefore, we need to provide adequate financial and human resources for the complaints mechanism.
in writing. to ensure sustainable urban mobility, both goods and passenger traffic should be taken into account. as public transport and freight transport are still very low-efficiency in many member states, quality investment in this sector is essential to achieve sustainable mobility. i am thinking in particular of the development of integrated urban public transport and the widespread use of environmentally friendly forms of transport. but while improving infrastructure, we must not forget for a moment the issue of emissions. as is well known, greenhouse gas emissions in industry and agriculture have been significantly reduced compared with 1990, while in the transport sector they have increased by 30% over the last 25 years. urban transport accounts for a quarter of total emissions, most of which come from road transport. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european road safety network, the development of a european road safety strategy and the development of a european road safety strategy. to achieve these objectives, it is essential to further develop urban fixed-route transport and to promote the widest possible use of electric and other non-greenhouse gas emission propulsion systems in urban road transport.
in writing urban mobility, its problems and solutions affect every country. anyone who lives or works in a city or town knows how difficult it is to get from one point of interest to another. that is why, as shadow rapporteur in the regi committee, i tabled amendments, which were approved, to emphasise an integrated transport system based on cooperation between different modes of transport in urban mobility. i also stressed the importance of cross-border urban connectivity in the urban planning process, as it stimulates regional development. sustainable urban mobility must focus on the quality of human life, with a direct link to the emphasis on relieving cities of congestion or planning parking lots to allow pedestrian freedom and attractiveness of city centres. we must also not forget that cycling plays an important role in modern planning for sustainable urban mobility and is part of the solution to preventing traffic congestion, with separate routes for cyclists and pedestrians being taken for granted in road construction and renovation.
for the ecr group european union development aid is above all a triumph of good marketing. two thirds of the european union think that spending on development aid should be increased, despite all kinds of failures. the more the european union's development projects fail, the more the european union spends on marketing. meanwhile, the european union spends more on its own promotion than coca-cola does worldwide. at the same time, however, a number of member states are reducing their share of development aid. for example, finland from 0,82% to 0,6%, france from 0,5 to 0,36%, etc. it is ridiculous, and especially unrealistic, to ask countries that are drowning in debt, like france, greece, portugal, to give 0.7 percent of their gdp to development aid. it is therefore time to stop dreaming of the european union as the savior of the world and to make development aid a reality. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
yes, of course i agree with that. finland is a country in recession, which has to fight its problems, which has to make its reforms and above all not to run deficits. the european union is in debt to the bone, and either we start to run our economy properly and then we can play savior and save other countries, but if we are making debts and more and more debts and more and more total debt, then let's stop playing hero and save all the countries around us.
today, the question is not whether it's good to have more women on the boards of publicly traded companies. of course, it is good for societies themselves if there is diversity, not only in the representation of women, but also, for example, of people with disabilities or of people of different nationalities. but the problem is the solution. there are companies and countries in europe that may be able to accept quotas, because this issue has been alive in them for decades. but at the same time, we have countries where the experience with similar solutions is very unhappy and negative. so i don't think it's right to support women in a way that actually challenges their status in such countries. i think gradual organic change will be more permanent and more in favor of women than quota solutions, as tempting as they may sound. we have many other tools to support women. let's work with men, let's work to support infrastructure for families, let's be leaders of change, let's be politicians, and let's highlight examples of good practice in successful countries and companies. it may be a slower but safer route.
‒ i have supported the draft ep decision on the establishment, powers, composition and term of office of the special committee on tax rulings and other measures of a similar nature or effect. the special committee will examine how eu state aid and taxation legislation is applied in practice in relation to tax rulings. the new special committee has the power to analyse and assess the commission's procedures, which consist in examining on an ongoing basis all systems of aid granted in the member states, proposing appropriate measures required by the progressive development or functioning of the internal market, by the member states, checking whether aid granted by the state or through state resources is compatible with the internal market and whether it is not being abused. the new committee will have 45 members and its term of office will be 6 months from 2 december 2015.
in writing ‒ the special committee on tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect will examine how the tax ruling rules under eu state aid rules are applied in all member states. in my view, such a committee is justified.
in writing ‒ i support an agreement that will allow for the flexible exchange of information on financial accounts between the union and liechtenstein. the agreement will help to uncover tax fraud and evasion that cost eu countries hundreds of millions of euros.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the report, as i believe that the harmonisation of the laws of non-eu member states with an organic trade relationship with the european union can greatly contribute to the effectiveness of taxation within the eu. in this case, i consider it of the utmost importance that the exchange of information between the two parties should start as soon as possible, thereby reducing the budgetary losses caused by tax fraud and tax evasion. it is also worth noting that the exchange of information will avoid many unnecessary investigations in the future.
in writing ‒ in voting on the european parliament legislative resolution on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of an amending protocol to the agreement between the european community and the principality of liechtenstein providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in council directive 2003/48/ec on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments in the currency of the european union, i voted in favour of the adoption of this resolution. the protocol extends the scope of the agreement on taxation of savings income, which aims to reduce tax fraud and tax evasion, to the exchange of information relating not only to income such as interest and dividends but also to the balance of accounts and the proceeds from the sale of financial assets.
‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the eu-liechtenstein agreement on the taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments. the european union and liechtenstein signed an agreement on 28 october this year on the automatic exchange of financial account information, which aims to improve international cooperation and compliance in the field of taxation. under this agreement, the eu and liechtenstein will automatically exchange information on the financial accounts of their residents as of 2017. the aim is to address situations where the taxpayer attempts to conceal capital in the form of income or property for which tax has not been paid. the agreement is a significant step in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. it will enable tax administrations in the member states and liechtenstein to correctly and unambiguously identify relevant taxpayers, to implement and enforce their tax laws in cross-border situations and to examine the likelihood of tax evasion.
in writing ‒ the harmonisation of rules brings greater transparency and efficiency to international cooperation in the area of tax compliance. the same rules will ensure easier exchange of information and enforcement in this area.
‒ the european ombudsman's report assesses the fulfilment by frontex of its fundamental rights obligations. in order to consolidate fundamental rights, the ombudsman proposes the creation of a mechanism for individual complaints about violations. i support the proposal to introduce a right of appeal because it would increase the transparency which is always a guarantee of better public administration. given the current serious and difficult to monitor situation at the eu's external borders, where security and order must be ensured in the first place, the proposed mechanism must be designed in such a way that it is not abused and does not create obstacles to ensuring adequate control and protection in the interest of eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the report produced on the basis of a proposal by the european ombudsman, whose primary objective is to establish a complaints mechanism for the work of frontex that can serve as an effective tool for the protection of fundamental human rights without compromising the work of the agency. the role of frontex in the coming months and years will be more important than ever. it should ensure the fulfilment of key tasks such as the protection of the external borders and the implementation of the return directive. therefore, we should not create unnecessary administrative burdens or allow the complaints mechanism to be abused. for this reason, i don't think it's right to involve third parties in these cases. the exception is unaccompanied minors and persons with disabilities, for whom we need to establish a simple and reasonable system of representation. the complaints mechanism is designed to guarantee the accountability of frontex representatives, and this should not have any impact on the exercise of the eu rights of member states, i am thinking here for example of the withdrawal of any financial benefits.
‒ i supported the european ombudsman's special report on the own-initiative inquiry into frontex. the ombudsman acknowledges the ongoing efforts of frontex to improve the respect of fundamental rights, in the form of the establishment of an incident reporting system as well as the development of codes of conduct. frontex should address individual complaints concerning violations of fundamental rights occurring during its operations and should provide appropriate administrative support to that end. in view of the growing humanitarian and legal challenges at the eu's external borders and the intensification of frontex operations, there is a need for a mechanism to deal with individual complaints against alleged violations of fundamental rights occurring in the course of frontex operations or cooperation with third countries.
in writing ‒ i did not support the motion for a resolution on the european ombudsman's special report on the own-initiative inquiry into frontex. it goes without saying that fundamental rights must be protected, whether it is an eu citizen or an asylum seeker. at the same time, however, we must ask whether the proposed fundamental rights mechanism is sufficiently well thought out, adapted to the situation in question and has the potential to be effective. in this case, the proposal does not, in my view, meet the individual points. on the one hand, it is too detailed on some aspects of complaints, which in my view are irrelevant, but on the other hand it does not address important issues, such as the deferral effect of complaints. the fact that the recommended mechanism operates in the european investment bank, which is proposed to be the model for frontex, does not guarantee that it will be equally suitable for frontex, which has a completely different structure and remit and is facing increasing pressure as a result of the migration crisis. given the role the agency currently plays, i do not think it is necessary to burden it with ill-conceived mechanisms and requirements.
in writing ‒ the proportion of the population living in cities is increasing. this is why there is a need to address the issues of urban mobility. the deteriorating environment and the inherent need for safety require a focus on promoting green public transport, with an emphasis on electric mobility. addressing these challenges requires thorough, forward-looking urban spatial and transport planning and increased support for integrated transport.
in writing ‒ the trend of urbanisation and the need to increase mobility in cities, which are home to up to 70% of europe's population and generate around 85% of gdp, is irreversible and requires increased attention from the professional and lay public. the report aims to find new ways of simplifying and accelerating urban mobility and moving towards less polluting and more sustainable modes of transport, in particular to protect human health, the environment and the climate, while seeking a rational balance between social, environmental and economic aspects. i believe it is in our interest and in the interest of our children's future to set ambitious targets and to allocate adequate resources from european funds to sustainable urban mobility projects.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the report, as i am sure that green transport will require more support than it currently does. greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector have increased by 30% over the last 25 years, and this is a growing trend that we need to address at eu level. we need to promote the widest possible use of environmentally friendly forms of public transport, while encouraging people in our cities to use public transport as much as possible. we also need to ensure that technologies based on non-combustion engines are used as much as possible in the propulsion of vehicles used in urban road transport. these environmentally friendly solutions, in addition to their positive environmental impacts, can make a significant contribution to reducing the eu's external energy dependence in the long term.
in writing ‒ in the case of the legislative resolution on sustainable urban mobility, i voted against the proposal submitted. it is important that we invest in the development of our cities. however, this development cannot be conditional on a system of excessive requirements for uniform modes of transport in all cities. our cities' infrastructure is currently too diverse to require the same transport modes or the same approach to ambitious emission ceilings. it is necessary to accept the diversity of our cities, their natural transport possibilities and to leave the member states with their competence in this area.
in writing ‒ in most european countries, including the slovak republic, where i come from, the main source of air quality degradation is considered to be the growing traffic. i personally see every day that the vehicle remains the main means of urban mobility, and therefore it is not unusual for our cities to be clogged with cars. unfortunately, individual car transport continues to dominate at the expense of sustainable modes of transport not only in most slovak cities but also in many european cities. i regret that the current state of mobility is in many cases also characterised by a lack of interest on the part of competent people in local authorities to tackle mobility problems and to look for new, innovative approaches and solutions. i supported the resolution because i believe that it is essential to reorient urban mobility towards sustainable modes of transport, and the report presented offers possible solutions. i also think that sustainable urban mobility will require much more quality investment in the public interest. while there are many different approaches to urban mobility planning in europe, i expect the union, in cooperation with member states and regional and local authorities, to be able to create a new model of sustainable urban mobility.
in writing ‒ the use of conventionally powered vehicles is still a popular mode of transport. with the growing urban population, our priority must be to focus on a long-term vision and a clear formulation of the objectives of urban mobility. efficient spatial planning, but also raising awareness of alternative modes of transport among our citizens are steps towards sustainable mobility.
in writing ‒ i abstained on the report on sustainable urban mobility. in most cases, the report managed to strike a balance between the principle of subsidiarity and supporting member states in their plans and initiatives for sustainable urban mobility, and it also rightly noted that positive change should come mainly from the bottom up, i.e. from regional and local authorities. on the other hand, it has called too much for the use of electric propulsion in vehicles, which in my view violates the technological neutrality of the resolution, and some other requirements, such as the replacement of public transport fleets with environmentally friendly ones or the complete elimination of petroleum-based vehicle propulsion and its derivatives, which i consider to be disproportionately burdensome and which i fear would be particularly harmful to small and medium-sized enterprises.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is a good thing that you want to restore confidence in the common currency, but you are doing the opposite. you keep breaking your own rules. you keep sending money to greece - more than the entire investment package of mr juncker. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet clear whether the commission will take a decision on the matter. to this end, the european central bank encourages the creation of new debt. every month, it buys 60 billion euros worth of new government bonds. that's breaking the rules, too. there's also an interest rate that's almost zero. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we do not need new rules, mr dombrovskis, we do not need a banking union and i do not know what else, we need to respect the existing rules. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. well, who's talking about a bump is a matter of debate. the debt of italy is about 140%, and 2.4 - the figure you mentioned, mr buonanno - is the new debt. italy's debt is up by 2.4% this year or last year. that's the first thing. secondly, there is still covert financing by the bank of italy - mr draghi was still in power at the time. i think italy has another 140 billion in debt, hidden somewhere in the balance sheets. if i were you, i'd be very, very quiet.
in writing. ‒ the regulation establishing the european asylum support office provides that, in order to achieve its objective, the support office should be open to the participation of countries which have concluded an agreement with the european union under which they have adopted and apply union law in the field covered by this regulation. other switzerland is one such country. the regulation also provides for the conclusion of agreements on the nature, extent and manner of the participation of those countries in the work of the office. on the basis of the draft agreement, switzerland will henceforth participate fully in the work of the support office and be entitled to receive support actions from the support office, as described in the regulation and in accordance with the conditions set out in this agreement. until now, switzerland has participated in the office's resettlement programme only on a voluntary basis. this agreement provides a framework for cooperation. the agreement requires the consent of the european parliament, which was given in today's vote.
in writing. ‒ the the main reason for this proposal is to conclude an arrangement with switzerland on the terms of its participation in the european asylum support office. the agreement in question may be concluded only after the consent of the european parliament has been given. the main provisions of the agreement include the full participation of switzerland in the activities of the support office, its representation on the administrative board of the support office as an observer and without voting rights, and switzerland's contributions to the budget of easo in line with its gdp.
in writing. ‒ the in may 2010, a regulation of the ep and the council established the european asylum support office. through its actions, it implements the common european asylum system and coordinates asylum policy within the eu but also outside it. its role is particularly important in the current migration crisis. in february 2014, a number of agreements were signed with non-member states (the principality of liechtenstein, the republic of iceland, the kingdom of norway and the swiss confederation) agreeing on the modalities of their participation in the activities of the european asylum support office. the ep's resolution endorsed the eu-switzerland agreement.
in writing. ‒ the current immigration crisis is perhaps the biggest challenge the european union has ever faced. the role of the european asylum support office has increased with the emergence of the crisis. the office's primary objective is to strengthen cooperation between member states and to support countries under particular pressure. i believe that the agency can only benefit from cooperation with switzerland, since the sharing of experience in the collection and analysis of information, as well as good practices and expertise, can greatly contribute to the effective work of the office. that's why i'm in favor of the treaty.
in writing. ‒ the the conclusion of the agreement on the participation of switzerland in the common asylum system comes at a time when member states' asylum capacities are under particular pressure. the main objective of the european asylum support office is to alleviate this pressure. i therefore support this agreement, which sets out the modalities for switzerland's involvement in the activities of the european asylum support office. switzerland shall be fully associated with the office, shall be represented on its administrative board as an observer without voting rights and shall also contribute proportionately to the office's budget. this means that switzerland will actively cooperate with other member states on practical and operational matters in the assessment of asylum applications and in the reception of applicants. exchange of information and mutual assistance are the best ways to cope with the current challenges of the migratory wave.
in writing. ‒ the european asylum support office (easo) is tasked with strengthening cooperation between member states in this area and assisting them in dealing with crisis situations. i consider switzerland's interest in actively cooperating with the eu on the activities of the support office to be a sign of solidarity and a step forward.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal and welcome switzerland's participation in easo activities.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the swiss confederation. switzerland is already informally involved in asylum matters and cooperates with the european asylum support office. it is also commendable that he has voluntarily participated in the relocation programmes for asylum seekers. i think that cooperation with countries like switzerland is very important in finding solutions to the migration crisis, because switzerland can help a lot in asylum processing processes or provide valuable assistance in the so-called hot spots. this is what the report was aiming at, and by concluding a working agreement, switzerland will be able to cooperate with the asylum support office officially.
in writing. ‒ relations between the european union and the dominican republic are governed by the partnership agreement between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states, of the one part, and the european union and its member states, of the other part (the cotonou agreement), as well as by the celaceu dialogue and the eucariforum dialogue. the dominican republic has become one of the third countries whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement when crossing the external borders of the member states. the agreement was signed in brussels on 28 may 2015. the agreement has since been applied on a provisional basis, pending the european parliament's approval, which it has now given. the signed agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for citizens of the dominican community for travel to the territory of the other contracting party for a period of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (both private, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders) and to travel for any purpose other than the pursuit of a gainful activity. the agreement will boost tourism and strengthen trade and investment links. visa liberalisation will simplify travel conditions for entrepreneurs, facilitate investment and enhance economic links between businesses.
in writing. ‒ the european commission negotiated, on behalf of the european union, an agreement with the dominican republic on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for citizens of this territory when travelling to the dominican community for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. this agreement also represents a culmination and a deepening of relations between the european union and the dominican community, which is politically very important as a further means of strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ the dominican republic is a democratic and politically stable country that respects human rights and the rule of law. in view of its economic, social, economic and political stability, the eu and the dominican republic concluded an agreement in may 2015 allowing citizens of the parties to travel without a visa to the territory of the other party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons travelling for any reason other than the pursuit of a paid activity. the ep's vote is to approve the agreement. at the same time, the european commission needs to monitor compliance with the agreement and check reciprocity in the treatment of citizens.
in writing. ‒ the agreement includes the abolition of the visa requirement for crossing the borders of the other party for a maximum period of 90 days, which is a positive consequence of the deepening of relations. dominica is a country that, like the union, protects democratic principles and human rights, and it poses no threat to the citizens of the member states. until now, confidence in visa applicants has been very high. the country has high growth potential and has made significant progress in human rights. the agreement aims to strengthen relations, boost tourism and, importantly, support the country in its progress. i consider it important to develop relations with the dominican community in order to raise awareness among the population of compliance with the global human rights instruments.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the dominican republic on the short-stay visa waiver. this agreement offers an excellent opportunity to boost tourism, facilitate investment and boost trade, thereby increasing the importance of economic and cultural links between the european union and the aforementioned state. in addition, the agreement offers new allies to join forces on major issues such as the fight against terrorism. we also welcome the emergence of political dialogue, most often aimed at joint action against corruption, criminal organisations and trafficking in human beings.
in writing. ‒ the small island state of dominica, part of the lesser antilles in the caribbean, is a potential partner for the eu in economic and cultural cooperation. the country has made great progress towards democracy and stability in recent times. it has succeeded in improving its governance, respect for human rights and the rule of law, making it a safe and attractive tourist destination for european citizens. therefore, i agree to the bilateral abolition of the visa requirement for short stays of up to 90 days for all citizens. for the dominican community, visa liberalisation will simplify travel conditions for entrepreneurs, facilitate investment opportunities and deepen economic connectivity between businesses. the island state's tourism industry is also underutilized, and dominica could benefit from it. despite its potential, dominica's economy is still based on agriculture, although the country is trying to diversify. its true potential could be revealed by the more intense relationships that this ease of travel can bring.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal and welcome the abolition of the visa requirement for short stays as it will increase the freedom of eu citizens as well as dominican community citizens.
in writing. ‒ relations between the european union and the republic of vanuatu are governed by the partnership agreement between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states, of the one part, and the european union and its member states, of the other part (the cotonou agreement). the republic of vanuatu has been included among the third countries whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement when crossing the external borders of the member states. the agreement was signed in brussels on 28 may 2015. the agreement has since been applied on a provisional basis, pending the european parliament's approval, which it has now given. the signed agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and the republic of vanuatu respectively, for travel to the territory of the other contracting party for a period of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (both private, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders) and to travel for any purpose other than the pursuit of a gainful activity. in general, the volume and rate of trade and investment between the european union and the pacific countries are low, but there is room for significant improvement. the visa waiver agreement could have a particularly positive impact on investment and the development of the tourism sector.
in writing. ‒ the european commission negotiated, on behalf of the european union, an agreement with vanuatu on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and its territories to vanuatu for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. this agreement also represents a culmination and a deepening of relations between the european union and vanuatu, which is politically very significant as a further means of strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ the in may 2015, an agreement between the eu and the republic of vanuatu was concluded, which is applied provisionally and allows citizens of the european union and nationals of the republic of vanuatu to travel without a visa to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons travelling for any reason, with the exception of persons travelling for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity. the country is a stable parliamentary democracy with low security risks. the predominant sector is agriculture, with the visa waiver agreement having a positive impact in particular on investment and the development of the tourism sector.
in writing. ‒ the agreement is based on visa liberalisation, which results from the successful completion of the deepening of relations between the eu and the republic of vanuatu. in vanuatu, the services sector is dominant, accounting for up to 72% of gdp. the agreement already focuses on the development of the private sector, the promotion of the import of agricultural products and the export of technologies and equipment, job creation and, in particular, the promotion of agriculture and tourism. the country is a stable parliamentary democracy and the union is interested in cooperating in the promotion of human rights, the fight against gender-based violence and the development of civil society. the agreement will have a significant impact on investment and development of the tourism sector.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the republic of vanuatu on the short-stay visa waiver. this agreement offers an excellent opportunity to boost tourism, facilitate investment and boost trade, thereby increasing the importance of economic and cultural links between the european union and the aforementioned state. in addition, the agreement offers new allies to join forces on major issues such as the fight against terrorism. we also welcome the emergence of political dialogue, most often aimed at joint action against corruption, criminal organisations and trafficking in human beings.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the fact that the eu is making it easier to travel to remote countries like the pacific island nation of vanuatu. the abolition of visa requirements for stays of less than 90 days will promote economic and cultural relations, but also contribute to intensifying political dialogue. vanuatu is already a stable parliamentary democracy, but still needs to improve the fight against corruption and increase the political engagement of its citizens. i support the agreement on visa liberalisation also because it will have a positive impact, in particular on investment and the development of tourism. the services sector accounts for more than two thirds of vanuatu's gdp, and so the liberalisation of relations with the eu could be most beneficial for tourism and financial services. in addition, visa-free travel has the effect of bringing european and pacific populations closer together, which in the long term could lead to the development of a private sector and trade relations that go beyond the current import of a few agricultural products.
in writing. ‒ relations between the european union and the republic of trinidad and tobago are governed by the partnership agreement between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states, of the one part, and the european union and its member states, of the other part (the cotonou agreement), as well as by the celaceu dialogue and the eucariforum dialogue. the republic of trinidad and tobago has been included among the third countries whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement when crossing the external borders of the member states. the agreement was signed in brussels on 28 may 2015. the agreement has since been applied on a provisional basis, pending the european parliament's approval, which it has now given. the signed agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for citizens of the republic of trinidad and tobago for travel to the territory of the other contracting party for a period of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (both private, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders) and to travel for any purpose other than the pursuit of a gainful activity. the agreement will boost tourism and strengthen trade and investment links, as the eu is trinidad and tobago's second most important trading partner. the visa waiver will facilitate travel for investors and thereby facilitate investment.
in writing. ‒ the european commission negotiated, on behalf of the european union, an agreement with trinidad and tobago on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for citizens of that territory to trinidad and tobago for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. this agreement also represents a culmination and a deepening of relations between the european union and trinidad and tobago, which is politically very significant as a further means of strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ the this agreement of may 2015 allows the citizens of the parties to travel without a visa to the territory of the other party for a maximum period of 90 days within any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons travelling for any reason other than the pursuit of a paid activity. it will also boost tourism and contribute to strengthening trade and investment relations. the agreement also provides scope for addressing the issues of abolition of the death penalty or the promotion of the rights of women and children, which are priorities for the union. the republic of trinidad and tobago, with its strict rules, can become a key partner in the field of security, in particular in the fight against drug smuggling and human trafficking.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver between the eu and trinidad and tobago was the result of good relations between the two parties. the agreement aims to boost tourism, strengthen trade cooperation and facilitate investment. the economy of trinidad and tobago is one of the most dynamic in the caribbean community, owing to its wealth of natural resources, high levels of direct investment and profitable tourism. the union sees the country as a functional partner due to its liberal, diversified economy geared towards foreign investment. both parties protect the same democratic values, defend human rights, and the union's priority remains political dialogue on the abolition of the death penalty and the promotion of the rights of women and children. the republic of trinidad and tobago has the potential to become a significant partner of the union and it is therefore desirable to give its consent to the agreement.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the republic of trinidad and tobago on the short-stay visa waiver. this agreement offers an excellent opportunity to boost tourism, facilitate investment and boost trade, thereby increasing the importance of economic and cultural links between the european union and the aforementioned state. in addition, the agreement offers new allies to join forces on major issues such as the fight against terrorism. we also welcome the emergence of political dialogue, most often aimed at joint action against corruption, criminal organisations and trafficking in human beings.
in writing. ‒ the it is a good sign that the eu is making it easier to travel to remote countries like trinidad and tobago in the caribbean. the abolition of visa requirements for stays of less than 90 days will promote economic and cultural relations, but also contribute to intensifying political dialogue. trinidad and tobago is one of the most dynamic and prosperous economies in the caribbean community and a preferred destination for foreign direct payments. although trinidad and tobago is already a democratic and stable country, this agreement allows for deeper cooperation on human rights issues. the abolition of the visa requirement is also linked to the fact that most schengen visa applicants are already considered to be well-intentioned travellers and do not pose a risk to the eu. on the contrary, the country can become a key partner in the fight against illegal migration, drug smuggling and human trafficking. the impact of visa liberalisation on the rapprochement of european and caribbean populations is also significant, and could lead to the development of the private sector and trade relations in the long term.
in writing. ‒ relations between the european union and the independent state of samoa are governed by the partnership agreement between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states, of the one part, and the european union and its member states, of the other part (the cotonou agreement). the independent state of samoa has been included among the third countries whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement when crossing the external borders of the member states. the agreement was signed in brussels on 28 may 2015. the agreement has since been applied on a provisional basis, pending the european parliament's approval, which it has now given. the signed agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for citizens of the independent state of samoa for travel to the territory of the other contracting party for a period of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (both private, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders) and to travel for any purpose other than the pursuit of a gainful activity. the visa waiver agreement could have a particularly positive impact on investment and the development of the tourism sector. in particular, none of the eu member states has a consulate in samoa, which means that nationals of the country can only apply for and obtain a visa abroad at considerable cost. the visa waiver would therefore represent a clear advantage for travel to the union for tourism or business purposes.
in writing. ‒ the european commission negotiated, on behalf of the european union, an agreement with samoa on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for citizens of this territory when travelling to samoa for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. this agreement also represents a culmination and a deepening of relations between the european union and samoa, which is politically very significant as a further means of strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ the agreement abolishes the visa requirement for nationals of the contracting parties for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the cancellation shall apply to all categories of persons travelling for any reason other than the pursuit of a paid activity. the independent state of samoa is an independent parliamentary democracy with a strong agricultural base. two thirds of the population work in this sector. exports of agricultural products account for 90% of total exports. migration from the country is currently mainly to the usa, to a lesser extent to the eu. in addition to facilitating the movement of people, the agreement creates space for trade, tourism and investment.
in writing. ‒ samoa is a small island in the pacific ocean with a dynamic economy focused on the agricultural sector. cooperation between the two parties shall focus on the development of the private sector, the water sector and tourism. an eu-samoa visa waiver agreement would bring a number of benefits for tourist and business travel to the union, as no member state has a consulate in samoa, making it more difficult to apply for and obtain visas. the agreement would thus reduce the cost of travel and trade between the contracting parties, and there is potential for mutual trade to develop.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the independent state of samoa on the short-stay visa waiver. this agreement offers an excellent opportunity to boost tourism, facilitate investment and boost trade, thereby increasing the importance of economic and cultural links between the european union and the aforementioned state. in addition, the agreement offers new allies to join forces on major issues such as the fight against terrorism. we also welcome the emergence of political dialogue, most often aimed at joint action against corruption, criminal organisations and trafficking in human beings.
in writing. ‒ the agreement will make it easier to travel between the eu and samoa. the abolition of visa requirements for stays of less than 90 days will promote economic and cultural relations, but also contribute to intensifying political dialogue. the independent state of samoa is one of the most dynamic islands in the pacific and has been politically stable as a parliamentary democracy since gaining independence in 1962. i also agree with the visa waiver agreement because it will have a positive impact, especially on investment and tourism development, given that the eu's trade with the pacific countries is currently at a low level. the main areas of union cooperation with samoa include private sector development, the water sector and tourism development. however, in the future, it is possible to consider extending trade relations beyond today's imports of palm oil, coffee and fishery products. on international issues, political dialogue with samoa focuses on environmental issues and climate change, as samoa is threatened by rising ocean levels as an island state. as no member state of the union currently has a consulate in samoa, the abolition of the visa requirement will be an advantage for the citizens of this country when travelling to the eu for tourism and business.
in writing. ‒ relations between the european union and grenada are governed by the partnership agreement between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states, of the one part, and the european union and its member states, of the other part (the cotonou agreement), as well as by the celaceu dialogue and the eucariforum dialogue. grenada has been included among the third countries whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement when crossing the external borders of the member states. the agreement was signed in brussels on 28 may 2015. the agreement has since been applied on a provisional basis, pending the european parliament's approval, which it has now given. the signed agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and grenada respectively for travel to the territory of the other contracting party for a period of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (both private, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders) and to travel for any purpose other than the pursuit of a gainful activity. visa liberalisation will simplify travel conditions for entrepreneurs, facilitate investment and enhance economic links between businesses. the agreement could boost tourism and give new impetus to trade relations.
in writing. ‒ the european commission negotiated, on behalf of the european union, an agreement with grenada on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and its territories to grenada for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. this agreement also represents a culmination and a deepening of relations between the european union and grenada, which is politically very significant as a further means of strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ grenada is a country of approximately 110 000 inhabitants. he poses no threat to illegal immigration, security or public order. the country's economy is dominated by the export of spices and bananas, and tourism is poorly developed. the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver, concluded in may 2015 and provisionally applied since, allows the citizens of the parties to travel to the territory of the other party without a visa for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. this applies to all categories of passengers for any reason other than the performance of a paid activity. the agreement opens up the scope for enhancing mutual trade, tourism and enhancing dialogue and cooperation in the field of human rights.
in writing. ‒ the eu-grenada agreement aims to liberalise visa requirements, boost tourism and provide a new impetus for trade. grenada is an agricultural country that is ready to face industrialisation, the transition of the economy from primary to the service, tourism and construction sectors. the agreement is intended to facilitate travel, investment and enhance cooperation. the union supports grenada's constitutional reform on human rights, in particular the adoption of a new law on domestic violence and child protection, and is open to dialogue on deepening relations.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and grenada on the short-stay visa waiver. this agreement offers an excellent opportunity to boost tourism, facilitate investment and boost trade, thereby increasing the importance of economic and cultural links between the european union and the aforementioned state. in addition, the agreement offers new allies to join forces on major issues such as the fight against terrorism. we also welcome the emergence of political dialogue, most often aimed at joint action against corruption, criminal organisations and trafficking in human beings.
in writing. ‒ the abolition of visa requirements for stays of less than 90 days with the island state of grenada will promote economic and cultural relations, but also contribute to intensifying political dialogue. the current economy of grenada is heavily dependent on banana and spices exports, so it is important that the country focuses on transformation and diversification, to which the opening up of travel opportunities can contribute. i therefore support this agreement on visa liberalisation, which will simplify travel conditions for entrepreneurs, facilitate investment and deepen economic interconnection between businesses. although grenada has already reduced its share of the agricultural sector, the tourism or construction sectors are still underdeveloped. but the country's development also depends on how it manages to cope with the many challenges it faces as an island state. grenada is small in size, remote from markets, and vulnerable to external shocks and limited resources. i therefore believe that an intensification of relations with the eu will be beneficial for grenada, while also allowing for enhanced cooperation and deeper dialogue in many areas, including human rights.
in writing. ‒ relations between the european union and the democratic republic of timor-leste are governed by the partnership agreement between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states, on the one hand, and the european union and its member states, on the other (the cotonou agreement), to which the democratic republic of timor-leste acceded shortly after its independence. the last political dialogue with east timor took place in brussels on 16 october 2014, when the decision was taken to facilitate visa cooperation. the agreement on visa waiver was signed in brussels on 26 may 2015. the agreement has since been applied on a provisional basis, pending the european parliament's approval, which it has now given. the signed agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for citizens of the democratic republic of timor-leste for travel to the territory of the other contracting party for a period of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (both private, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders) and to travel for any purpose other than the pursuit of a gainful activity. the agreement on visa-free short-stay visas is an excellent opportunity to promote economic relations and contribute to the development of tourism. tourism is a key sector for the development of east timor and in this respect europeans may be interested as tourists and investors.
in writing. ‒ the european commission negotiated, on behalf of the european union, an agreement with east timor on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for citizens of the territory to east timor for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. this agreement also represents a culmination and a deepening of relations between the european union and east timor, which is politically very significant as a further means of strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ the agreement allows citizens of the union and of the democratic republic of timor-leste to travel to the territory of the other party without a visa for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period, the visa waiver applying to all categories of persons travelling for any reason other than the pursuit of a paid activity. in addition to strengthening tourism and economic relations, the agreement also has political significance, in the context of east timor's accession to the association of southeast asian nations, with which the union is seeking to strengthen its strategic partnership.
in writing. ‒ the visa waiver agreement between the eu and the democratic republic of timor-leste is also politically significant at regional level. the country is an independent, democratic, stable state that has partnered with the eu since its independence. the union welcomes the situation in the country, promotes a democratic culture and stresses the strengthening of state institutions. the agreement represents an opportunity to deepen economic relations and to develop tourism, which is a key area for the development of east timor. the abolition of visa requirements will also increase the attractiveness of the eu for european entrepreneurs and investors, as the eu is already the third largest trading partner of the pacific countries, after australia and china.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the democratic republic of timor-leste on the short-stay visa waiver. this agreement offers an excellent opportunity to boost tourism, facilitate investment and boost trade, thereby increasing the importance of economic and cultural links between the european union and the aforementioned state. in addition, the agreement offers new allies to join forces on major issues such as the fight against terrorism. we also welcome the emergence of political dialogue, most often aimed at joint action against corruption, criminal organisations and trafficking in human beings.
in writing. ‒ this agreement marks the successful conclusion of the deepening of relations between the eu and the democratic republic of timor-leste. the country has undergone an extremely rapid and commendable democratic stabilisation, which contributes to the continuous improvement of relations with the union. i therefore welcome the abolition of the visa requirement with east timor, as it allows for the valorization of economic relations and the exploitation of tourism opportunities. i also agree that the visa liberalisation is another stimulus for european entrepreneurs and investors. european citizens will be able to travel to east timor not only as tourists but also to take advantage of investment opportunities in tourism. the eu will also be able to strengthen its relations with the countries of south-east asia and intensify political dialogue on human rights, media freedom and gender equality. the fact that visa requirements are being lifted today is also due to the fact that most visa applicants have long been considered as well-intentioned travellers and do not pose a risk to the eu. i believe that the agreement will contribute to the development of mutual relations and will be beneficial for mutual prosperity.
in writing. ‒ relations between the european union and saint lucia are governed by the partnership agreement between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states, of the one part, and the european union and its member states, of the other part (the cotonou agreement), as well as by the celaceu dialogue and the eucariforum dialogue. saint lucia has been included among the third countries whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement when crossing the external borders of the member states. the agreement was signed in brussels on 28 may 2015. the agreement has since been applied on a provisional basis, pending the european parliament's approval, which it has now given. the signed agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for citizens of saint lucia for travel to the territory of the other contracting party for a period of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. a joint statement on the interpretation of the 90-day period is attached to the agreement. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (both private, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders) and to travel for any purpose other than the pursuit of a gainful activity. although saint lucia's economy is small compared to other caribbean countries, is based on agriculture and is exposed to external shocks, it strives to create an environment that is conducive to investment and private sector development. the agreement will thus allow for the strengthening of relations between the two parties and the dynamisation of trade.
in writing. ‒ the european commission negotiated, on behalf of the european union, an agreement with saint lucia on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for citizens of this territory when travelling to saint lucia for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. this agreement also represents a culmination and a deepening of relations between the european union and saint lucia, which is politically very significant as a further means of strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ this agreement is provisionally applied from may 2015 and allows eu and saint lucia citizens to travel to the territory of the other contracting party without a visa for a maximum period of 90 days within any 180-day period, covering all categories of persons travelling for any reason other than the pursuit of a paid activity. saint lucia is a democratic and stable country. civil, human and political rights and fundamental freedoms are protected by the constitution. the economy is small, based on agriculture, and the main source of income is tourism. saint lucia is a safe country and poses no threat to the eu in the area of security and public order.
in writing. ‒ saint lucia is a small and young, democratic and stable country, focused on agriculture but with ambitions to transform the economy through a conducive environment for business, investment and private sector development. the country is successfully achieving and even exceeding some of the sustainable development goals, developing trade and tourism. the union therefore agrees to the visa waiver agreement, supports the country in its development and in promoting its commitment to human rights. the adoption of the agreement will facilitate the possibility of doing business on the island. the union also appreciates the significant progress made in gender equality, the fight against trafficking in human beings and prostitution, which is prompting the parties to deepen dialogue in these areas as well.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and saint lucia on the short-stay visa waiver. this agreement offers an excellent opportunity to boost tourism, facilitate investment and boost trade, thereby increasing the importance of economic and cultural links between the european union and the aforementioned state. in addition, the agreement offers new allies to join forces on major issues such as the fight against terrorism. we also welcome the emergence of political dialogue, most often aimed at joint action against corruption, criminal organisations and trafficking in human beings.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the conclusion of the agreement between saint lucia and the eu on visa facilitation. this agreement represents a successful conclusion to the deepening of mutual relations. saint lucia is a young country with limited resources and a small population, yet it is succeeding in achieving its development goals. although the island's economy is small and largely based on agriculture, saint lucia is striving to create an environment conducive to investment and private sector development. moreover, it is one of the leading economies in the caribbean island countries in terms of ease of doing business. i also support the strengthening of eu relations with saint lucia because the agreement will strengthen relations between the two parties, provide a new impetus for trade and boost tourism. the fact that visa requirements are being lifted today is also due to the fact that most visa applicants have long been considered as well-intentioned travellers and do not pose a risk to the eu. i believe that the agreement will contribute to the development of mutual relations and will be beneficial for mutual prosperity.
in writing. ‒ relations between the european union and saint vincent and the grenadines are governed by the partnership agreement between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states, of the one part, and the european union and its member states, of the other part (the cotonou agreement), as well as by the celaceu dialogue and the eu-cariforum dialogue. saint vincent and the grenadines is included among the third countries whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement when crossing the external borders of the member states. the agreement was signed in brussels on 28 may 2015. the agreement has since been applied on a provisional basis, pending the european parliament's approval, which it has now given. the signed agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for citizens of saint vincent and the grenadines to the territory of the other contracting party for a period of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. a joint statement on the interpretation of the 90-day period is attached to the agreement. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (both private, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders) and to travel for any purpose other than the pursuit of a gainful activity. in economic terms, saint vincent and the grenadines has been experiencing a difficult period, due to, inter alia, natural disasters and the deterioration of the export conditions for the country's main product, the banana. the agreement will allow for further strengthening of relations between the two parties and the dynamisation of trade.
in writing. ‒ the european commission negotiated, on behalf of the european union, an agreement with saint vincent and the grenadines on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for citizens of this territory to saint vincent and the grenadines for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. this agreement also represents a culmination and a deepening of relations between the european union and saint vincent and the grenadines, which is politically very significant as a further means of strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ an agreement which is applied provisionally and allows the citizens of the contracting parties to travel without a visa to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days within any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons travelling for any reason other than the pursuit of a paid activity. st. vincent and the grenadines has been struck by natural disasters. this has had a negative impact on tourism and the economy and has worsened exports of the main agricultural product, bananas. nevertheless, the measures taken have managed to boost the economy and strengthen social development. the country poses no threat in terms of irregular migration, nor in terms of security and public order.
in writing. ‒ the eu-saint vincent and the grenadines visa liberalisation agreement reflects the successful relationship that has been developing since saint vincent and the grenadines' independence. the situation in the country has not always been the easiest, especially due to natural disasters that have affected the export of the most important agricultural product, bananas. however, the country is now experiencing positive developments and economic recovery, with the country beginning to focus on tourism, external trade and social development. the conclusion of the agreement will provide an opportunity for cooperation on human rights, the achievement of the sustainable development goals and the strengthening of relations. the main objective, however, will be to give a new impetus to ongoing trade and exchanges between the two parties.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and saint vincent and the grenadines on the short-stay visa waiver. this agreement offers an excellent opportunity to boost tourism, facilitate investment and boost trade, thereby increasing the importance of economic and cultural links between the european union and the aforementioned state. in addition, the agreement offers new allies to join forces on major issues such as the fight against terrorism. we also welcome the emergence of political dialogue, most often aimed at joint action against corruption, criminal organisations and trafficking in human beings.
in writing. ‒ the abolition of visa requirements for stays of less than 90 days with saint vincent and the grenadines will promote economic and cultural relations, but also contribute to intensifying political dialogue. currently, its economy is heavily dependent on banana exports, so it is important that the country transforms itself and improves the attractiveness of its tourism. it should be noted that the country has recently gone through a difficult period economically due to natural disasters and deteriorated export conditions. the facilitation of travel between the eu and saint vincent and the grenadines can therefore be an incentive for an overall improvement of this difficult situation. i support this agreement on visa liberalisation, which will simplify travel conditions for entrepreneurs, facilitate investment and deepen economic interconnection between businesses. although saint vincent and the grenadines has already improved its external trade performance and is pursuing macroeconomic policies aimed at diversifying the economy, tourism remains on the margins. i therefore believe that intensifying relations with the eu will be beneficial for saint vincent and the grenadines, allowing for stronger economic cooperation and also providing an opportunity for regular dialogue on the state of human rights.
in writing. ‒ eu-uae relations are conducted within the framework of the 1988 cooperation agreement between the eu and the gulf cooperation council. the european union opened a mission in the uae in 2013, demonstrating its willingness to strengthen bilateral cooperation. the united arab emirates has been included among the third countries whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement when crossing the external borders of the member states. the agreement was signed in brussels on 6 may 2015 and has now been given the necessary approval by the european parliament. the signed agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and citizens of the uae for travel to the territory of the other contracting party for a period of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the uae is the first arab country with which the european union has signed a visa waiver agreement. more than 150 000 european citizens are settled in the uae, with some 1,6 million european visitors a year. in 2014, around 230 000 uae nationals travelled to europe, mainly for business or luxury tourism. the eu is the main trading partner of the uae in terms of trade relations and the uae is ranked 14th among the trading partners of the union and its member states, and the visa waiver could further boost economic relations.
in writing. ‒ the european commission negotiated, on behalf of the european union, an agreement with the united arab emirates on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and its citizens to the united arab emirates for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. this agreement also represents a culmination and a deepening of relations between the european union and the united arab emirates, which is politically very significant as a further means of strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ the the united arab emirates is home to 150,000 european citizens, and another 1.6 million visit the country annually. in 2014, by contrast, 230,000 emirati nationals visited the eu. the visa requirement has been identified as one of the main obstacles to increased tourism. the agreement, which was concluded in may 2015 and is provisionally applied, allows the citizens of the parties to travel to the territory of the other party without a visa for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period, covering all categories of persons travelling for any reason other than the pursuit of a paid activity. the united arab emirates is an industrial country with high incomes. the eu is today the first trading partner of the united arab emirates, which ranks 14th among the trading partners of the union and its member states. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of sampled union producers. the abolition of visas for short stays will boost mutual trade and tourism. it can also contribute to strengthening relations in the fight against terrorism, trafficking in human beings and climate change.
in writing. ‒ the eu-uae visa waiver agreement strengthens relations between the two parties and is a means of enhancing economic and cultural exchanges and intensifying political dialogue on human rights and fundamental freedoms, which are priorities for the union. the agreement is intended to serve as a tool for deepening cooperation between the two parties, which share an interest in stabilising the region and in a reliable partnership in a number of areas. already, 150,000 european residents are living in the uae, taking advantage of the economic opportunities, and an additional 1.6 million europeans travel to the country annually. the agreement aims to facilitate these activities and travel between the two contracting parties. the priority of this agreement must remain ensuring equal treatment and protection of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the united arab emirates on the short-stay visa waiver. this agreement offers an excellent opportunity to boost tourism, facilitate investment and boost trade, thereby increasing the importance of economic and cultural links between the european union and the aforementioned state. in addition, the agreement offers new allies to join forces on major issues such as the fight against terrorism. we also welcome the emergence of political dialogue, most often aimed at joint action against corruption, criminal organisations and trafficking in human beings.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver represents a successful conclusion to the deepening of relations between the eu and the uae, as well as a further means to strengthen economic, cultural relations and intensify political dialogue on human rights and fundamental freedoms. the conclusion of this agreement is welcome, as more than 150 000 european citizens are already living in the uae, and the vast majority of them are also taking advantage of economic opportunities. at the same time, mutual tourism is increasing. the abolition of visa requirements will thus make it easier for many europeans to visit family or travel for business or tourism reasons. i also support this agreement because, in a broader context, it represents an instrument for deepening cooperation in the stabilisation of the entire middle east region. the eu opened its representation in abu dhabi in 2013 to strengthen bilateral relations and build a strong and reliable partnership with the uae. the fact that it is the first arab country with which the eu has signed a visa waiver agreement is evidence of the country's eminent interest in converging with eu values. this is also evidenced by the establishment of a human rights working group, where the uae has expressed its will to improve the rights of migrant workers, women's rights and freedom of expression.
in writing. ‒ the new visa regime will allow eu citizens to travel to the uae without a visa. the same will apply to uae nationals if the length of stay does not exceed 90 days in any 180-day period. this decision develops cooperation between the uae and the eu not only in the field of tourism but also in the field of cultural exchange.
in writing. ‒ i supported the reports that parliament had given its consent to the conclusion of an agreement with the united arab emirates and eight other countries on the abolition of the visa requirement for short stays. under the agreements, which are already provisionally in force, citizens of these countries, and in turn citizens of the european union, will be able to travel without a visa for up to 90 days. all these countries were carefully considered, the credibility of their visa applicants, the potential threat of migration from these countries to the european union, as well as the state of democracy and respect for human rights were examined. i therefore believe that by supporting the short-stay visa waiver treaties, we will send an important signal for strengthening relations with these countries, for learning about new cultures, but also for new opportunities arising from increased tourism. this will make it easier for european citizens to travel, as some of the countries with which the agreement will be concluded are also popular holiday destinations.
in writing. ‒ the this report is a council implementing decision seeking the approval of a memorandum of understanding between the office for harmonisation in the internal market and eurojust. the purpose of the memorandum of understanding is to strengthen cooperation between eurojust and the ohim in accordance with their respective mandates. any exchange of information or experience shall be set out in the memorandum of understanding and shall not involve the transfer of operational information, including data relating to an identified or identifiable person.
in writing. ‒ the memorandum strengthens the cooperation between the office and eurojust. the agreed exchange of information shall not concern operational information and data relating to an identified or identifiable person, thereby ensuring the protection of personal data.
in writing. ‒ on the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion by eurojust of the agreement on the european economic area, i consider it very important to promote cooperation between eurojust and the office for harmonization in the internal market. as stated in the preamble to the memorandum of understanding, eurojust and bphh are ready for strategic cooperation and recognise that the memorandum of understanding will enable them to better fulfil their respective tasks. i therefore consider that the memorandum of understanding is in the common interest of eurojust and bphh and will therefore vote in favour of its adoption.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's legislative resolution on the proposal for a council implementing decision approving the conclusion by eurojust of a memorandum of understanding between the office for harmonisation in the internal market and eurojust. particular attention should be paid to article 3 (5) of the mou, which states that the exchange of information or experience under this mou does not include the transfer of operational information, including data relating to an identified or identifiable person. another important provision is the article on dispute settlement. according to this, disputes concerning the interpretation or application of the mou must be resolved through consultations and negotiations between representatives of eurojust and the office for harmonisation in the internal market, which excludes arbitration by any third party.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal as it is mainly formal in nature.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution by which parliament gave its consent to the council's proposal. as eurojust may conclude working agreements with other institutions and agencies, which may relate, for example, to the exchange of information or the secondment of staff, i believe that this agreement with the office for harmonization in the internal market will also help to strengthen their cooperation with each other and help them to perform their tasks better within their mandates.
in writing. ‒ the this report deals with the rules for the provision of own resources and cash-flow measures. it contains practical arrangements for the establishment of traditional own resources, the preservation of records, administrative cooperation, the applicable rates for own gni, the accounts to be preserved from own resources, the timing for their disclosure and for the production of adjustments and provisions concerning cash management and bad debts. the amendment of the rules should avoid a situation that arose in 2014 when the united kingdom and the other member states had to make additional contributions to the common budget of the european union, which led to intense discussions.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal provides for the granting, calculation and adjustment of member states' contributions to the union budget in order to enable the commission to manage its treasury efficiently and to make payments to beneficiaries in a timely manner. in addition to technical adjustments concerning payment deadlines, measures against late payments are introduced.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the report, as i believe it is very important that the eu budget is allocated under clear and unambiguous rules and that payments from the eu budget are made on time. i support the commission's efforts to extend the deadline for possible budgetary adjustments from 1 december to the end of the year, thus facilitating the financing of the adjustments applied by the national treasuries. i also welcome the effort to reform the own resources system further.
in writing. ‒ i supported the ep legislative resolution on the proposal for council regulation (eu) no 609/2014 on the methods and phasing-in of traditional own resources and own resources based on vat and gni and on measures to ensure cash requirements. the proposal stresses the need for effective rules for the timely payment of member states' contributions to the union budget in order to enable the commission to manage its treasury effectively. it also supports the possibility for the commission to request the member states to pay a third of the vat and gni-based resources in the first half of the year, so that the commission can reduce a larger part of the outstanding payments for the previous year in the european agricultural guarantee fund and the european structural and investment funds and reduce default interest. contribution adjustments should be dealt with as automatically as possible in order to avoid political interference with the agreed methods of financing the union budget and to limit to a minimum the possibility for member states to decide on the timing of additional contributions resulting from gni adjustments to the union budget.
in writing. ‒ i support this proposal as it leads to more efficient management of the commission's budget and treasury.
in writing. - i voted against the motion. while i welcome the substantial part of the commission's proposal, i reject the amended proposal submitted to the european parliament, as this original technical proposal has been highly politicized.
in writing. ‒ the european union is financed mainly by contributions from the member states. it is important that these contributions to the union budget are made in time, as this is the only way for the commission, as the executive, to meet its commitments under the approved budget. however, late payments from previous years have caused the accumulation of unpaid payments in some funds. in addition to the problems this delay caused to the beneficiaries of payments, the pressure on eu resources was also increased by default interest. the adopted regulation should address this problem and at the same time create conditions that in the future will provide an incentive for member states to pay their contributions on time.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution in which we granted the request of the prosecutor's office to the supreme court of greece to waive the immunity of georgios kyrtsos, member of the european parliament, in connection with a possible prosecution in the case of an alleged crime. a member of the european parliament is accused of not paying part of the salary of one of his former employees. members of the european parliament, within the meaning of article 9 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union, shall enjoy in the territory of their own state the immunities accorded to members of the national parliament of that state. since article 62 of the constitution of the hellenic republic provides that members of parliament may not be prosecuted, arrested, imprisoned or otherwise restricted during their term of office without the prior consent of parliament, it was necessary to deprive a colleague of parliamentary immunity in order for the law enforcement authorities to thoroughly investigate whether member georgios kyrtsos is guilty of the alleged criminal offence of non-payment of salary to a former employee.
in writing. ‒ given that the act under investigation by georgios kyrtsos was to have taken place before he took up his duties as a member of the european parliament and that there is therefore no clear link with the performance of his mandate, i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution by which we granted the request of the prosecutor's office to the highest court of greece to waive the immunity of mp stelios kouglo, who is accused of insulting the honor and defaming the prison staff in patras. this charge relates to statements allegedly made by stelios kouloglou to the press in 2010 regarding the integrity of some members of the prison staff in patras at the time when he was working as a journalist and mainly involved in television news production. members of the european parliament, within the meaning of article 9 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union, shall enjoy in the territory of their own state the immunities accorded to members of the national parliament of that state. since article 62 of the constitution of the hellenic republic provides that members of parliament may not be prosecuted, arrested, imprisoned or otherwise restricted during their term of office without the prior consent of parliament, it was necessary to deprive a colleague of parliamentary immunity in order for the law enforcement authorities to thoroughly investigate whether member of parliament stelios kougloa is guilty of the charge of insulting the honour and security of prison staff in patras.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. in recent years, the distribution of ict employment in the eu and other economies has changed to the detriment of the eu. although the volume of this sector increased worldwide, there was a decline in europe as businesses and services moved to china, india, taiwan and other destinations outside europe. the finnish authorities point out that the steps leading to the redundancies include the changes in nokia in recent years, which have had a significant impact on the ict sector in finland. in finland, thousands of people were previously involved in the development and design of nokia mobile phone operating systems, particularly in oulu, while these tasks have now been outsourced outside europe. on 6 november 2015, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for finland to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant in 69 enterprises operating in the nace rev. 2 division 62 (computer programming, consultancy and related services) in several nuts 2 regions in finland. the ep report adopted today, which i voted in favour of, welcomes, among other things, the wide range of measures offered by the finnish authorities to redundant workers and welcomes measures to support entrepreneurship.
in writing. ‒ the having regard to the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the european commission on budgetary discipline and in the light of the council regulation as well as the regulation of the european parliament and of the council, i support the allocation of a financial contribution of eur 2 623 200 to finland. this particular request concerns 1200 of the 1603 redundancies. the redundancies were in connection with developments at nokia in recent years, which have significantly affected the ict sector in finland. nokia's development and design of mobile phone operating systems employed thousands of people in finland, mainly in the city of oulu, and now these activities have been moved to countries outside europe.
in writing. ‒ the in june 2015, finland requested support for the reintegration into the labour market of 1200 of the 1603 redundant workers in 69 enterprises operating in the economic activity of computer programming, consultancy and related services in several nuts level 2 regions covering the whole of finland. the redundancies were related to developments at nokia in recent years, which have significantly affected the ict sector in finland. the application complies with the conditions for a financial contribution from the egf, which was established to provide additional support for workers affected by major structural changes in world trade. the total amount of the egf to be mobilised for finland is eur 2 623 200.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is intended to support workers in the member states who have been made redundant or have ceased gainful employment as a result of changes in the pattern of world trade due to globalisation. in the case of finland, redundancies have occurred in the ict sector, mainly as a result of the takeover of nokia in the country. the request fulfils all the conditions for its granting, and i therefore agree with the decision to approve the proposal. the financial contributions will be used by the country to provide seven types of measures for redundant workers.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide support for workers made redundant and self-employed persons whose activity has ceased as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, the continuation of the global financial and economic crisis or the new global financial and economic crisis, and to assist them with their reintegration into the labour market. on 12 june 2015, finland submitted an application for a financial contribution from the egf, following redundancies in 69 enterprises active in the computer programming, consultancy and related services sectors. finland requested a financial contribution of eur 2,623 million, which would be for 1200 of the total number of 1603 redundant workers. personnel services are to be provided to redundant workers, consisting of seven types of measures vocational guidance and other preparatory measures, employment and business services, vocational training, wage subsidies, business start-up grants, business support and services for new entrepreneurs and travel, accommodation and relocation allowances.
in writing. ‒ finland, in its application for funding, pointed to the difficult situation of workers in the ict sector, who are facing difficulties in finding their jobs during the economic crisis and the current global trend. the programme will help them find their way to success in today's labour market through a personal approach. the project will be co-financed by the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf).
in writing. ‒ i did not support the proposal because i consider redirecting money to job creation to be counterproductive.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the report on the request to mobilise the globalisation adjustment fund submitted by computer programming, finland. although i think that people who have lost their jobs as a result of globalisation changes in world trade need to be helped, not to mention situations where we have hundreds of workers laid off, the globalisation adjustment fund is not, in my view, the right instrument. while the fund itself provides funding for active measures to help redundant workers find employment, there are no thorough analyses of the impact of the fund's assistance that would produce sufficient comparative results and, where they exist, show that the success of the fund, and thus the success of redundant workers in finding new employment, varies from 4% to 86%, with the conclusions indicating that the workers who are most likely to find employment are those who should not be covered by measures financed by the fund. conversely, workers with lower education, older age, or living in areas with limited employment opportunities are least likely to have a chance. i therefore think that the fund does not generate enough added value and that with the funds currently being spent on the fund we could find more effective solutions for the redundant workers.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament approved the council's first reading position on the reform of eu trade mark law. the community trade mark reform also adopts the terminology of the treaty of lisbon, replacing the term 'community trade mark' with 'european union trade mark'. the most important part of the reform is the directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to trade marks, which aims to simplify and make cheaper and more accessible administrative procedures and trade mark registration. the eu expects the amendments to have a positive impact on economic growth and to increase the appetite for innovation. i voted in favour of parliament's adoption of the council's position.
in writing. ‒ the community trade mark regulation 207/2009 is the only existing legal instrument on intellectual property rights that is governed at european union level. the main objective of this proposal is to promote innovation and economic growth by making trade mark registration systems across the eu more accessible and efficient. the revision of the regulation aims to adapt terminology, simplify the procedures relating to the registration of a european trade mark, increase legal certainty of the rules, and create an appropriate framework for cooperation between ohim and the national offices for the development of common instruments. this system is already functioning, but with the current modernisation it should work more efficiently and better. the trade mark package is a key legal instrument to combat counterfeiting of products. our priorities are to preserve public health, safety and jobs, and to defend fundamental rights. the european parliament also achieved lower fees of up to 37%, less red tape, more efficiency and a system that benefits trademark users.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 207/2009 on the community trade mark. i also support the promotion of innovation and economic growth by making it easier and more efficient for businesses to access trade mark systems in europe, through cost reduction and complexity reduction, faster procedures, greater legal certainty and better protection against counterfeiting.
in writing. ‒ i approve the agreement reached between the council and the ep on the adaptation of the european trade mark. the main objective of this proposal is to promote innovation and economic growth by making the trade mark registration system more accessible and efficient. the amendment of this directive will adapt terminology, unify registration procedures and increase legal certainty by clarifying concepts. among other things, the name 'european union trade mark' is introduced and the office for these matters is renamed the european union intellectual property office. member states will also be able to set their fees in such a way as to guarantee the coexistence and complementarity between the european trade mark and the system of national trade marks. cooperation with national authorities is important in particular to bring the tools and presentation methods closer together. at national level, these adjustments should also improve the management structure of trade marks and speed up the application of administrative procedures. the system currently in place will be modernised and made more functional. the european trade mark package is a key tool in the fight against counterfeiting of products. at the same time, the financial and administrative costs of establishing a trade mark for the entrepreneur are reduced. so i believe that this system will become more accessible to its users.
in writing. ‒ the promoting the proper functioning of the single market is one of the eu's priorities. in a globalised world, brands are becoming increasingly important. of course, their protection is also important. it is important for an effective single market to provide businesses with uniform protection throughout the eu.
in writing. ‒ the second legal instrument adopted in the context of community or eu trade mark reform is a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to trade marks. through the second part of the reform, the regulation on community trade marks, and the said harmonisation directive, the eu legislator is supporting european innovation and economic growth. the directive will make trade mark provisions more transparent, increasing legal certainty. the directive also aims to approximate the substantive law and procedures governing trade marks in the member states, thereby facilitating their harmonisation with the eu trade mark system. the simplified cooperation between the trade mark offices of the member states and the european union office for harmonisation and internal market, which is envisaged by the directive, will also contribute to the more efficient functioning of the internal market. the reforms have enabled european smes to do their jobs more cheaply and simply, with a better legal and administrative framework. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the revised directive is designed to complement the so-called european union trade mark regulation by harmonising national trade mark rules. it is part of the same package as the regulation and they were negotiated together. for the purpose of harmonising the national trade mark systems of the european union, the provisions of the european union trade marks will also apply to national trade marks, thus bringing the regulation into line with the directive and approximating the trade mark laws of the member states. the main objective of the proposal is to promote innovation and economic growth.
in writing. ‒ i supported the directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to trade marks, because i am convinced that unification on this issue will help to improve the comprehensibility of trade marks across the european union. this amendment to the directive introduces a number of improvements aimed at increasing legal certainty and clarifying the scope of the lawful use of the member states' trade marks. the system at national level will thus bring the method of awarding the european trade mark closer together and facilitate the communication between the european and national authorising offices. this should make it easier to register and protect trade marks in all member states. the conditions under which an applicant may register a mark will also be more clear. the directive gives examples of signs which may be regarded as trade marks and also mentions clear grounds for refusing or invalidating a registration. on the other hand, the member state retains the right to decide whether to initiate a refusal of registration investigation. the new law will also allow trademarks to be used for trade names. these and other measures are also necessary to make european products and businesses more competitive vis-à-vis third countries.
in writing. ‒ the modernisation of the trade mark legislation aims to improve cooperation between national offices and the central european trade mark office. more efficient work between these institutions will contribute to better conditions within the european single market.
in writing. ‒ as one of the most important industries for several member states of the european union, fisheries also needs to be regulated and controlled by the relevant species. the north-east atlantic fisheries commission (neafc) has proposed to incorporate into european union law changes to the system which will become binding on its contracting parties and, consequently, on the european union. this is particularly the case for the harmonisation of the system to prevent illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. the main change in this regulation is also a measure to ensure the long-term conservation and optimum use of fisheries resources, which will ensure sustainable development in the industry from an environmental and social point of view.
in writing. ‒ in the future, we will need to put even more emphasis on the rational use of our natural resources, and i am happy to support any effort that has a positive impact on this issue. the long-term conservation and optimum use of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic is a european interest and it is therefore important to tackle undeclared and unregulated fishing and unregulated landings and transhipments more effectively than at present.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the control and enforcement system applicable to fisheries in the north-east atlantic, as the eu, as a contracting party, aims to ensure the long-term protection and optimum use of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic, as well as sustainable, environmental and social benefits. the main objective is to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. a further amendment clarifies that vessels transhipping catches in the regulatory area as receiving vessels are required to report the port of landing regardless of whether the port where the landing is to take place is located in the convention area or outside it. the draft resolution also contains a recommendation to change the procedure for notifying port state controls of foreign fishing vessels in order to adapt them to the transition from a paper-based system to a modern ict web application operated by neafc.
in writing. ‒ since the proposal is aimed only at transposing measures already in force and increasing legal certainty, i supported the proposal.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal for future multilateral cooperation on fisheries in the north-east atlantic. this cooperation will be limited to the north-east atlantic and will not therefore directly affect all member states, but the consequences for the catches of certain fish species such as sardines, mackerel and cod will nevertheless be significant for the inhabitants of other member states. the report itself transposes the content of the commission agreement for fisheries in the north-east atlantic into union law and adds legal certainty as well as contributing to the fulfilment of the international commitments of the european union. and since the rules will mainly concern the prevention of illegal fishing, monitoring or infringement procedures, i think it is right to support such an agreement.
in writing. ‒ the liberalisation of trade between the eu and the western balkan countries is being achieved through a number of stabilisation and association agreements and an interim agreement in the case of bosnia and herzegovina. following the accession of croatia to the union in 2013, bosnia and herzegovina has not yet contributed to the adaptation of the interim agreement to take into account the preferential trade traditionally carried out between croatia and bosnia and herzegovina before 1 july 2013 in the framework of the central european free trade agreement. all cefta western balkan member states with the exception of bosnia and herzegovina have endorsed the methodology for amending the eu's trade agreements after each enlargement and have concluded negotiations to amend their agreement with the eu. after three rounds of negotiations with bosnia and herzegovina, no agreement was reached. in contrast to the union methodology, bosnia and herzegovina considers that it would not be able to increase its conventional trade preference. according to bosnia and herzegovina, this could only happen if the eu granted further concessions. in view of the impasse and the damage to the union's trade interest, the commission recommends that the autonomous trade measures granted to bosnia and herzegovina not be automatically extended, but that the extension be made conditional on bosnia and herzegovina's acceptance of the methodology for adjusting the interim agreement. in the european parliament we approved this proposal with a few amendments.
in writing. ‒ we have liberalised trade between the european union and the western balkan countries through a number of stabilisation and association agreements. in the case of bosnia and herzegovina, through the interim agreement and kosovo, as well as the region as a whole, agreements result from autonomous measures. the european commission's assessment of the proposal led to three major changes to the basic regulation (ec 1215/2009). these include, in particular, the extension of the current preferences until the end of 2020, the introduction of a human rights clause in the autonomous trade measures regulation and the possible suspension of the autonomous trade measures for bosnia and herzegovina as from 1 january 2016. the last point concerns in particular the fact that no agreement has been reached with bosnia and herzegovina on an interim agreement taking into account preferential traditional trade between croatia and bosnia and herzegovina.
in writing. ‒ the eu is liberalising trade with the western balkan countries through stabilisation and association agreements and, in the case of bosnia and herzegovina, through an interim agreement. since 2000, the eu has also granted these countries unilateral preferences that allow unrestricted duty-free access to the eu for most products. the commission proposal provides for three amendments to basic regulation (ec) no 1215/2009: the extension of the current preferences until the end of 2020. introduction of a so-called human rights clause in the autonomous trade measures regulation, which allows for the suspension of preferences in the event of a serious and systematic breach by a recipient country of the fundamental principles of human rights, democracy and the rule of law, possible suspension of the autonomous trade measures for bosnia and herzegovina from 1 january 2016 in relation to that country's disagreement with the modification of the interim agreement to take into account the preferential traditional trade between croatia and bosnia and herzegovina under the central european free trade agreement (cefta), which linked the two countries until 1 july 2013.
in writing. ‒ trade between the eu and the western balkan countries has been liberalised through several stabilisation and association agreements and, in the case of bosnia and herzegovina, through an interim agreement. in addition, the entire western balkan region benefits from the autonomous trade measures that the eu has granted since 2000. these unilateral preferences allow unrestricted duty-free access to the eu for most products. in the proposal under examination, the commission proposed three main amendments to the basic regulation. the first concerns the extension of the current preferences until the end of 2020, the second the introduction of the so-called human rights clause in the autonomous trade measures regulation and the third concerns the possible suspension of the autonomous trade measures for bosnia and herzegovina as of 1 january 2016. at present, negotiations with bosnia and herzegovina have not resulted in any agreement, and therefore a number of conditions for entitlement to preferential agreements are defined for it, such as respect for the definition of 'originating products', the obligation of recipient countries to refrain from introducing new duties or charges with regard to products originating in the eu, and the prevention of risks of fraud in trade relations.
in writing. ‒ countries participating in the process of stabilisation and integration into european structures must demonstrate in the accession processes their respect for the principles of democracy, the rule of law, the protection of human rights and minorities. but if there is a serious and systematic breach of these rules, the eu is forced to take action and define certain limits.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal as i support all trade liberalisation initiatives.
in writing. ‒ the position adopted by parliament confirms the eu's determination to increase pressure on bosnia and herzegovina, which makes its willingness to agree to reciprocal trade with croatia conditional on further eu concessions. the adopted resolution is a warning to bosnia and herzegovina that its stubborn stance may lead not to greater concessions but, on the contrary, to the suspension of preferential trade measures by the eu. it is a strong signal to the government of this balkan country that the eu does support its integration into its territory, but only if it respects the rules and agreements in force.
in writing. ‒ under the current council decision on europol, the council, after consulting the european parliament, is to authorise the conclusion of international cooperation agreements with third countries or international organisations. this proposal aims at the adoption of the proposed strategic cooperation agreement between europol and the united arab emirates. such a strategic agreement excludes the exchange of personal data, and therefore the issue of data protection is not relevant in this case. the information exchanged may include the field of expertise, general situation reports, results of strategic analysis and information on criminal investigation procedures and crime prevention methods, as well as training activities and the provision of advice and support for specific criminal investigations. according to europol, the uae is playing an increasing role in the fight against organised crime as the country becomes an increasingly important centre for economic and financial crime. the european parliament approved the conclusion of a strategic cooperation agreement between the united arab emirates and europol as it would help and strengthen the fight against financial fraud and contribute to international cooperation in the field of financial investigations and other relevant crimes.
in writing. ‒ the the current situation in the european union as well as in the global world context requires the adoption of decisions involving cooperation with third states or international organisations pursuant to article 23 (2) of the council decision. such cooperation and agreements may concern the exchange of strategic expert or operational information as well as classified information. such agreements shall include the exchange of personal data. from an operational point of view, we consider it necessary for europol to cooperate strategically with the uae, even though this agreement excludes the exchange of personal data. however, the uae appears to be playing an increasingly important role in the fight against organised crime, as economic and financial crime is rampant in the country, in particular in the form of vat fraud, missing business entity fraud and money laundering.
in writing. ‒ the united arab emirates is becoming a country into which money derived from crime flows, in particular from money laundering, tax fraud and organised crime. the agreement between the united arab emirates and the european police office (europol) on strategic cooperation in the fight against serious crime and terrorism by europol can help to detect and prevent such illegal activity through the exchange of information. the agreement excludes the exchange of personal data.
in writing. ‒ as transnational organised crime is one of the major security threats that needs to be effectively combated, i welcome the report on the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion of the agreement between the united arab emirates and the european police office on strategic cooperation in the fight against serious crime and terrorism by europol. the protection of citizens' security is logically becoming one of the priorities of the european union, and it is therefore essential to promote cooperation with all the countries concerned. in doing so, experience has shown that europol also needs to cooperate with the united arab emirates from an operational point of view, as they play an increasingly important role in the fight against organised crime. the country is becoming a sprawling centre of economic and financial crime. the profits from criminal activities such as vat fraud and money laundering have been reinvested in the uae and key perpetrators of these frauds have taken refuge in the uae.
in writing. ‒ while most citizens have not yet recovered from the recent terrorist attacks, the european union, together with its agencies, must be prepared for any potential threat. the eu's law enforcement agency, the european police office (europol), plays a particularly important role in this, with the ultimate aim of creating a safer europe. since i believe it is our duty to provide europol with all the means to make its work more efficient, i am voting in favour of the conclusion of a strategic agreement with the united arab emirates. the activities relating to the collection, exchange and analysis of information form an essential part of the office's work. through international cooperation agreements with third countries, europol can gain experience in analysis, strategic reporting and crime prevention methods that can then lead to significant results.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution approving the conclusion of an agreement between the united arab emirates and the european police office (europol) on strategic cooperation in the fight against serious crime and terrorism by europol. the united arab emirates currently has a significant role in the fight against organised crime as the country becomes a sprawling centre of economic and financial crime. proceeds from criminal activities such as value added tax fraud and money laundering are reinvested in the uae and key perpetrators involved in those frauds are also taking refuge there. therefore, the information to be exchanged under this agreement may be of great importance in individual cases of criminal investigations and in the fight against financial fraud.
in writing. ‒ the uae is becoming a major centre for economic and financial crime. strategic cooperation with europol is therefore necessary from an operational point of view, as it will facilitate and strengthen international cooperation in the field of financial investigations and other relevant criminal matters.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal as i support cooperation between the uae and europol.
in writing. ‒ the in order to enhance the security of european citizens in the face of the new terrorist threat posed by daesh supporters, it is necessary to improve the conditions for operational cooperation between europol and the united arab emirates. it is a major player in the middle east, without which it is not possible to effectively counter terrorist threats. at the same time, the uae is increasingly becoming a target country for the laundering of the proceeds of economic and other organised crime. however, the proposed strategic framework for cooperation between europol and the uae does not include the exchange of personal data, which is why i supported this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the parliament's report was produced for the european commission's document 'towards a european energy union'. the parliament's report focuses on energy security, including the diversification of energy sources and energy supply routes. an important aspect of the progress towards the energy union is the alignment of the process with forward-looking climate policy, which has been the subject of an opinion by the committee on the environment, in its capacity as an associated committee. i agree with the way parliament has put it that the main pillars of the energy union are energy efficiency, renewable energy, the most efficient use of european energy resources and smart infrastructure. the needs of europe's citizens and businesses will require a regulatory framework that contributes to economic growth and job creation, while at the same time increasingly incorporating cost-effective and environmentally friendly measures. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the energy security of the european union and its member states is a strategic policy. however, energy security goes hand in hand with reducing greenhouse gas emissions. the energy union framework strategy on climate change reflects the 5 pillars of the energy union and policies implemented under these pillars must contribute to ensuring security of energy supply, decarbonisation, long-term sustainability of the economy and affordable and competitive energy prices. it must also take a hardline approach in areas such as achieving a fully integrated internal energy market and further the best possible use of energy resources, followed by reducing greenhouse gas emissions, mitigating energy demand, and expanding renewable energy sources. in this area, it is also essential to promote research and innovation with a view to achieving leadership in energy technologies.
in writing. ‒ as the energy union can bring real and tangible benefits to all member states, i welcome the report entitled 'towards a european energy union' and consider it significant that the energy union framework strategy has created a new impetus for the transition to a low-carbon, secure and competitive economy. given that the european union spends some eur 400 billion on energy imports each year, i believe it is essential to reduce this dependence by diversifying the sources, suppliers and transport routes of both electricity and nuclear fuel, but above all natural gas. with geopolitical events, with the ongoing tensions between russia and ukraine, and with the persistently low oil prices that are affecting energy markets around the world, energy security is still literally the talk of the day. all the more necessary is the search for a safe and effective solution and the need to ensure that the european union acts as one on the world stage. the commission notes that the slovak authorities have not provided any evidence that the aid is compatible with the internal market.
in writing. ‒ the in february 2015, the european commission proposed the creation of a european energy union, which should primarily address energy security, the removal of technical and administrative barriers, and respect for climate objectives. although some progress has been made in these areas, i believe that we still have many unresolved challenges ahead of us, as this report shows. i voted in favour of the resolution because i support the idea of a single european energy union based on solid cross-cutting legislative foundations and strong objectives. i also support the vision and the new strategy presented because there is currently no single energy market in europe and the resulting fragmentation of eu energy markets is very damaging to europe's competitiveness and energy security. as a member of the european parliament representing the slovak republic and living in eastern slovakia, i am very sensitive to the annual problems with energy supply during the winter months, which have been and are linked to the crisis situation in ukraine. i expect the european energy union to have well-integrated and competitive regional electricity and gas markets, ensuring the adequacy and flexibility of an energy system covering all parts of the union.
in writing. ‒ the european union must cooperate on a common energy policy. this is the way to increase energy security and the efficient use of renewable energy sources. if it is to work, solidarity and understanding must prevail among the member states. the nordstream2 project is contrary to the principles of the energy union and therefore needs to be rejected.
in writing. - i did not support the motion. i agree with some parts of the energy union, particularly the removal of regulatory barriers. however, the european parliament's proposal calls for an increase in the regulatory burden in many places, with calls for stricter climate targets in particular being pointless and ultimately counterproductive.
in writing. ‒ connecting electricity networks is one of the fundamental prerequisites for achieving the european union's integrated internal market for electricity, which will help achieve the european union's climate objectives, including the goal of becoming a leader in renewable energy, and will improve the european union's geopolitical position, including through increased energy security and independence. a fully integrated internal market in electricity would also facilitate electricity trading and load balancing services, increase safety and reduce electricity price volatility, not only for the competitiveness of european industry in the global economy but also for the benefit of citizens, with annual savings of between eur 12 billion and eur 40 billion for european consumers by 2030.
in writing. ‒ as the ageing of europe's energy infrastructure, poorly integrated energy markets particularly cross-border ones and uncoordinated national energy policies often mean that consumers and businesses cannot benefit from a wider choice or lower energy prices, i welcome the report on the achievement of a 10% electricity interconnection rate, i.e. the preparation of european electricity networks for 2020. with wholesale electricity prices in the eu now 30% higher than in the us and gas prices even higher than 100%, improving energy connections between member states and modernising infrastructure can improve energy affordability and price competitiveness.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution because i consider the interconnection of electricity networks and the modernisation of infrastructure to be a fundamental pillar of the completion of the integrated internal market for electricity in the eu. although cross-border trade in electricity between most eu member states has increased in recent times, and so has the use of interconnectors, i think it is far from reaching its full potential. i consider it extremely important that we continue this strategy, because europe needs the interconnection of electricity networks, it needs an integrated internal market for electricity, which will facilitate electricity trade, increase security and reduce the volatility of electricity prices for the benefit of citizens and the competitiveness of european industry and businesses. i appreciate that europe (also thanks to the reliability of our networks) already has a traditionally high level of energy security compared to other regions of the world, but the recent crisis in ukraine and all the risks to energy security that it entails have shown us what the eu can gain from well-integrated and interconnected energy markets in the event of crises.
in writing. ‒ the integration of the electricity market and its efficient use is in the interest of every citizen. the preparation of european electricity networks is a step in the european energy union.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from the vote on the motion. while i welcome all efforts to link up the electricity market in the eu, these efforts should lead to the removal of regulatory barriers and not to the introduction of new burdens in the form of mandatory and arbitrary targets for electricity interconnection.
in writing. ‒ improving the interconnection of electricity networks is an important condition for maintaining the stability of electricity supply in the context of increasing the share of renewable energy sources. the power of resources like solar or wind power is weather dependent. however, the size of the european union ensures that adverse conditions never have a negative impact on the entire eu territory. it is therefore important to meet the interconnection targets of the member states' electricity networks in order to ensure a smooth flow of electricity produced from sources to consumers. it is also important for consumers in particular that the better the interconnection of the networks, the better the electricity market functions, and this contributes to significant cost savings.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on achieving 10% interconnection of electricity networks between neighbouring member states. i think that the effort to reduce dependence on third country electricity suppliers, which are often unreliable, is very important at the present time. the european union should also increase its energy self-sufficiency in this way, which will be very important in times of unforeseeable supply crises. at the same time, such interconnection will contribute to improving the internal market, the free movement of energy and, ultimately, hopefully, not only a greater sense of security for consumers but also lower electricity prices. on the other hand, i think that when establishing the interconnection objectives, the needs and specificities of the individual countries should be taken into account more and these should then be reflected in the interconnection plans based on a methodological approach.
in writing. ‒ the by creating the progress microfinance facility with a total amount of eur 205 million, the european union has achieved positive effects in alleviating poverty in developing countries. it has also provided socially and financially disadvantaged people in europe with the opportunity to secure a decent living. progress is available in 22 of the 28 member states, but this is due to different levels of economic development, different market interests and regulatory conditions. progress has a social dimension and facilitates access to micro-credit to establish and support micro-enterprises. it also helps people to return to the labour market and acquire new skills through training and mentoring, and enables people to lead responsible and dignified lives. the current definition of a microcredit is that it cannot exceed eur 25 000.
in writing. ‒ the progress microfinance facility targets the most vulnerable social groups the unemployed, social benefit recipients, immigrants, members of national minorities, people in the informal economy or living in rural areas and women. through refinancing from progess, access to micro-credit for the creation and promotion of micro-enterprises is facilitated. it thus enables these groups to enter the labour market and lead full lives. in the future, the instrument needs to be more focused on youth employment and the administrative burden of its acquisition requirements needs to be reduced. at the same time, the ec needs to raise awareness of this instrument.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution because i consider the european progres microfinance facility to be a particularly effective way of encouraging the creation of new businesses and, if necessary, helping the unemployed to re-enter the mainstream of the economy, either as self-employed or as owners of small businesses. although the original target of eur 142.4 million was not met, i consider it a success that 13 252 micro-credits worth eur 124.6 million were granted to applicants and that the instrument also achieved positive results in many developing countries. i agree with the rapporteur that progress can generally be considered a success, but we should focus more efforts today on improving access to microfinance for potentially excluded clients such as migrants, refugees, the long-term unemployed, young people, low-income people, low-skilled workers and people with disabilities who currently do not benefit enough from the instrument. i expect progress microfinance in the next period to make this instrument more flexible, more understandable, to improve awareness of its accessibility and to improve its promotion.
in writing. ‒ progress microfinance is one of several microfinance programmes. this programme increases the availability of micro-credit for the creation and development or development of a small enterprise. i think it is important to support smes in this way too, and it is in this respect that i see the justification for this instrument.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the report because i do not agree with supporting business with taxpayers' money, as it is counterproductive. nor does the fact that in this case the taxpayers 'only' guarantee the loans to entrepreneurs make much of a difference, since this again ultimately means the crowding out of more efficient market investments by less efficient investments guaranteed by the taxpayers.
in writing. ‒ microloans are primarily a social assistance instrument in european terms. however, it is also an aid that makes the recipients more responsible, improves their motivation and desire to work, and for many, micro-loans are the first step towards economic independence. the target groups include mainly the unemployed, social benefit recipients, immigrants, marginalised members of national minorities, as well as people performing unpaid work, for example in the home or in the care of others. the functioning of this instrument is undoubtedly still fragile, but i support its continued functioning and the gradual improvement of its effectiveness and accessibility.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the microfinance facility and voted in favour of it, especially as some of the additional proposals i had put forward were adopted. i think progress is a very important tool, especially for small businesses, but also for disadvantaged groups such as the unemployed, the disabled or the socially excluded who would probably not succeed in a normal bank applying for a loan. and although in slovakia such micro-loans are currently provided by only one bank, which set the conditions so that most applicants were already established entrepreneurs, i am convinced that it is necessary to give a chance to get micro-loans not only to them, but to disadvantaged groups of the population. and although micro-lenders may be afraid to lend to this target group, i believe that this report, which contains many recommendations, will soon change the situation and slovakia will follow the member states where progress has proved very successful in the microfinance instrument.
in writing. ‒ the one reason for the diversity and inconsistency of technical measures in the cfp is that a large part of them has been adopted by the council successively in the framework of annual regulations on total allowable catches and quotas. many of the technical measures are the result of political agreements between states. they are poorly scientifically based and result in insignificant differences between individual plagues. multiannual plans shall cover the management of fishing activities targeting the basic species. however, these plans have been only partially effective and have a number of shortcomings, particularly in the area of reducing and monitoring fishing activities.
in writing. ‒ the in the context of the report on the new common fisheries policy and the structure of the technical measures and multiannual plans, i consider it necessary to ensure that the primary objective of maximum sustainable yield using the ecosystem approach is respected. i therefore support the adoption of a general framework of technical measures containing general objectives and minimum common standards valid throughout the eu. however, i would point out that simplifying them should not be done at the expense of environmental protection. on the contrary, union decisions can have a significant impact on the recovery of fish stocks, the protection of ecosystems and the sustainable management of common fish stocks.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the new common fisheries policy (cfp), the structure of technical measures and the multiannual plan, as it must aim at achieving maximum sustainable yield using an ecosystem approach. the purpose of the technical measures is to prevent the capture of juveniles and other by-catches. in principle, the system is based on three sets of geographically distinct measures (the baltic sea, the mediterranean sea and the atlantic ocean and other seas) which consist of a specific set of rules. they also include specific provisions relating, for example, to the prohibition of the use of driftnets, the prevention of incidental whaling or the prohibition of shark finning on board. the reform of the cfp introduced a discard ban without addressing the inflexibility inherent in the tac and quota systems. the key element of the reform of the cfp is regionalisation or regional cooperation and in the area of safeguard measures. future technical measures of the cfp must be simple and clear to be understood by fishermen and should be adapted as far as possible to the specific needs of individual fisheries and regions.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal as it leads to more effective implementation of the common fisheries policy.
for the ppe group. first of all, i would like to thank my colleague, mr guerrero salom, for a balanced text which could be supported by all the political groups with a few reservations. in the past year, europe has been hard hit by the consequences of humanitarian crises in the form of a massive influx of refugees. we were all surprised. we woke up to a reality in which millions of endangered people from the evening news suddenly knocked on our door. but this feeling is necessary. it is an opportunity to re-evaluate our approach to humanitarian crises in the world and to take measures that will help us better manage crisis situations. to respond more quickly and effectively and even sometimes prevent such crises. the report contains a number of constructive proposals aimed at this objective. i look forward to the istanbul summit. i am all the more sorry that we have not been able to reach agreement on the obligation to provide abortions for victims of humanitarian crises or on the requirement for mandatory financial contributions to a fund which is still only on paper. it's a shame, because this report deserves to be adopted by a broad consensus.
it is not possible to comment on the content of the forthcoming summit in one minute, but i would like to say something that is common to summits in general. and that's a lot of marketing, a lot of speaking to the summit, but basically no results. this summit will also end up with you coming up with proposals that you know very well will not be accepted by the member states. the presidents of the member states will come before their television cameras after the summit and say that europe has failed. your duty is to create a debate in advance and only when it is clear that a proposal has the potential to be successful, then to take it to the public. people ask us what we actually do in our institutions. what the european union is doing because they don't see any results. so, send our greetings to the heads of government, and wish them a merry christmas, but make sure they make decisions that people are confident will actually be implemented.
in writing. the european banking authority is a union authority tasked with ensuring an effective and consistent level of prudential regulation and supervision throughout the european banking sector. the objectives of the authority are to maintain financial stability in the eu and to ensure the efficiency and orderly functioning of the banking sector. parliament's report on the extension of the mandate of the president of the european banking authority (eba) endorsed the proposal of the board of supervisors of the eba to extend the mandate of the current president, andrea enria, for a further five years. the parliament's economic and monetary affairs committee heard the president of the eba before adopting its plenary decision and subsequently approved the proposal. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i support the extension of the term of office of the president of the european banking authority.
in writing. ‒ the report proposes to extend the term of office of the president of the european banking authority for a further five-year period. in 2011, the board of supervisors of the eba appointed its first chair, mr andreu enria, following an open competition. the board of governors shall have the possibility to take account of the evaluation and to extend its term of office once. the proposal was submitted by the board of the institutions, the president-in-office was heard, made an opening statement and duly answered all questions. given the conditions for the extension of the mandate, i agree to approve the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the in 2011, the first president of the european banking authority (eba) was appointed following an open competition for a five-year term. pursuant to article 48 (4) of regulation (eu) no 1093/2010, the board of supervisors of the eba may, after taking into account the evaluation, extend this term of office of the chairperson of the eba once, subject to confirmation by the european parliament. on 8 september 2015, the board of supervisors of the eba proposed to extend the term of office of the acting president of the eba, mr andre enri, for a further five-year period and informed the ep accordingly. subsequently, on 17 november 2015, the committee on economic and monetary affairs held a hearing with the president-in-office of the eba, during which andrea enria made an opening statement and was then given the opportunity to be questioned and answered by the members of the committee. on the basis of a recommendation from the council and after having been heard by the committee, the european parliament has decided to extend the term of office of the president of the european banking authority.
in writing. ‒ it is a well-founded position, which i support being extended.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal to extend the term of office of the president of the eba, given that the current president has so far proved to be sufficiently qualified to perform this function.
in writing. the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa), based in frankfurt, was established in 2010 to prevent the risk of destabilisation of the insurance sector. eiopa shall facilitate cooperation between national authorities and ensure the consistent application of union legislation in the insurance and occupational pension sectors in the eu member states. in september 2015, the supervisory board of eiopa proposed to extend the term of office of the incumbent president of eiopa, mr gabriel bernardino, for a further five years and informed the european parliament of its proposal. the economic and monetary affairs committee (econ) of the european parliament has heard the president-in-office of eiopa and adopted a report on the extension of the term of office of the current president of eiopa. the ep's plenary session adopted the econ report on the extension of the mandate of the president of eiopa for five years. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i support the extension of the term of office of the president of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority.
in writing. ‒ the board of supervisors of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority has put forward a proposal to parliament to extend the term of office of mr gabriel bernardin, president of eiopa, for a further five years. the term of office of the chairman may be extended once, and the chairman shall be obliged to make a statement and answer questions from members of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. since all the conditions for the approval of the extension of the mandate have been met, i therefore vote in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ i would like to thank mr gabriel bernardino for his tireless work over the past five years as head of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority. on the basis of the outcome of the last cycle and the outcome of the hearing held by the economic and monetary committee on 17 november 2015, i support the extension of his mandate for a further five years.
in writing. ‒ the following an open competition in 2011, mr gabriel bernardin was appointed president of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) for a five-year term. pursuant to article 48 (4) of regulation (eu) no 1094/2010, the board of supervisors of eiopa may, after taking into account the evaluation referred to in that provision, extend the term of office of the chairperson of eiopa once, subject to confirmation by the european parliament. on 30 september 2015, the board of supervisors of eiopa proposed to extend the term of office of the acting president of eiopa, mr gabriel bernardin, for a further period of five years. on 17 november 2015, the committee on economic and monetary affairs held a hearing with the chairperson-in-office and, on that basis, recommended to the ep that the mandate of mr gabriele bernardino as chairperson of eiopa be extended for a further term. in a secret vote, the ep confirmed the proposal of the council of ministers and the ep's committee on economic and monetary affairs.
in writing. ‒ i approve the proposal to extend the term of office of the chairperson of eiopa.
in writing. the paris-based european securities and markets authority (esma) was established in 2010 to preserve the stability of european financial markets and address shortcomings in european financial supervision. the authority facilitates coordination between national financial regulators and ensures that eu countries apply eu financial legislation consistently. the first chairperson of esma was appointed by the supervisory board of esma following a call for tender in 2011 for a term of five years, pursuant to regulation (eu) no 1095/2010. the regulation allows for a one-off extension of the term of office for five years. in september 2015, the supervisory board of esma recommended the extension of the term of office of the acting president of esma, mr steven maijoor, for a further five years. the economic and monetary committee approved the proposal for an extension of the term of office after hearing the chairperson of esma. the ep's plenary adopted the proposal, and i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i support the extension of the term of office of the president of the european securities and markets authority.
in writing. ‒ the first chairperson of the european securities and markets authority was selected by the board of governors in 2011 following an open competition. the chairman, mr steven maijoor, will be re-elected for a five-year term of office following a proposal by the council of the bodies to extend it. i agree to the approval of the proposal on the basis of the statement and taking into account the evaluation of the previous term of office. parliament's decision will be forwarded to the council, the commission, esma and the governments of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i would like to thank mr steven maijoort for his work over the past five years as head of the european securities and markets authority. on the basis of the outcome of the last cycle and the outcome of the hearing held by the economic and monetary committee on 17 november 2015, i support the extension of his mandate for a further five years.
in writing. ‒ the in a secret ballot, meps extended the term of office of steven maijoor as president of the european securities and markets authority (esma) for a further five-year term. the chairman of esma, mr steven maijoor, was appointed in 2011 following an open competition for a five-year term. pursuant to article 48 (2) of regulation (eu) no 1095/2010, the board of supervisors of esma has proposed, after taking into account the evaluation, to extend the term of office of the chairperson of esma once, subject to confirmation by the european parliament. on 17 november 2015, the economic and monetary affairs committee held a hearing with the acting chair of esma, steven maijoor, during which he made a statement and subsequently answered questions from the members of the committee. having agreed to the proposal, the committee submitted the draft resolution to the european parliament for approval.
in writing. ‒ i support the extension of the mandate of steven maijoor as president of the european securities and markets authority (esma) for another five-year period, as during his term of office he has contributed to the stability of the financial system of the european union, as well as to the improvement of investor protection and to the stability of financial markets.
in writing. ‒ under the current council decision on europol, the council, after consulting the european parliament, is to authorise the conclusion of international cooperation agreements with third countries or international organisations. in order to combat and prevent organised crime effectively, europol considers that the conclusion of an agreement on operational and strategic cooperation is important, given that bosnia and herzegovina is a potential future eu member state and currently a neighbouring state of the union. the european parliament gave its consent to the conclusion of the agreement today.
in writing. ‒ the the current situation in the european union as well as in the global world context requires the adoption of decisions involving cooperation with third states or international organisations pursuant to article 23 (2) of the council decision. such cooperation and agreements may concern the exchange of strategic expert or operational information as well as classified information. such agreements shall include the exchange of personal data. from an operational point of view, we consider it necessary for europol to cooperate strategically with bosnia and herzegovina.
in writing. ‒ the conclusion of this agreement opens up possibilities for law enforcement in the fight against serious international crime and terrorism, while creating a safe europe, also in cooperation with this potential candidate country. the eusr shall also provide technical assistance and support to the authorities of bosnia and herzegovina through europol.
in writing. ‒ if we want europol to continue to fulfil its main task of effectively combating serious forms of international crime and preventing organised crime, we must support all the cooperation that enables it to do so. i voted in favour of the report so that europol can be more effective in dealing with cross-border crime in bosnia and herzegovina in the future.
in writing. ‒ the current security situation in europe requires not only intensive cooperation between member states, but also the involvement of neighbouring or candidate countries. i therefore welcome the cooperation agreement between bosnia and herzegovina and europol, even though we did not support the report as per the group's guidelines. bosnia and herzegovina thus joins other eu states in preventing and combating organised crime, terrorism and other serious forms of crime. cooperation shall consist in the exchange of information and personal data. the country will exchange expertise, general event reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigations and crime prevention methods with europol. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu-osha joint action on the prevention of and fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. cross-border cooperation of security services is a prerequisite in order to prevent attacks by various radical groups in today's interconnected world. this cooperation with bosnia and herzegovina will give europol more information on the balkan route, which is also crucial for the protection of the eu's external borders.
in writing. ‒ constructive cooperation that can help bosnia and herzegovina in the fight against organised crime and unfair financial practices.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal and welcome the cooperation between bosnia and herzegovina and europol.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. on 6 november 2015, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision to mobilise the egf in favour of ireland to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by pwa international ltd operating in nace rev. 2 division 33 (machinery, equipment, equipment repair, commissioning) and the reintegration into the labour market of 108 young people not in employment, education or training (neets). the irish authorities claim that the redundancies at pwa international were caused by the closure of pwai following the company's decision to consolidate its north american and asian operations due to the trend towards deploying mro activities alongside global aviation hubs and the negative effects of the world trade agreements. the commission has found that the application meets the conditions for a financial contribution from the egf and has therefore been approved by the ep today, which i voted in favour of. an important element of the application is that 108 young people not in employment, education or training, who were under 25 years of age at the time of the application, will also have access to personalised services co-financed by the egf.
in writing. ‒ the having regard to the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the european commission on budgetary discipline and in the light of the council regulation as well as the regulation of the european parliament and of the council, i support the allocation of a financial contribution of eur 442 293 to ireland. this particular request concerns 108 redundant employees of pwa international ltd. the existing difficult situation in the area, together with the cumulative impact of the closure of three significant companies in the sgei sector in a short period of time and the fact that there are no employers left in the sector in ireland, could justify an exemption from the threshold of 500 redundancies set out in article 4 (1) of the egf regulation.
in writing. ‒ ireland submitted an application for a financial contribution from the egf following the redundancies of 108 employees in pwa international ltd, a company in the machinery repair and installation sector, namely in the aerospace engineering sector, which has been affected by the global economic crisis. this is the lowest number of redundancies for which the egf is to be mobilised to date. the request is based on the exceptional circumstances in ireland where three significant businesses in the same sector closed and were made redundant in a short period of time. i therefore supported the ep resolution to provide ireland with support for personalised services for the unemployed and the integration of 108 people into the labour market for a total of eur 442 293.
in writing. ‒ ireland applied for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund following the redundancies in the service and general repair sector, in which ireland specialised at the end of the last century. the redundancies are due to the trend of the service and general repair activities being located close to the growing global air transport hubs, which are mainly located in north america and asia. another reason is the adverse effects of global trade agreements. the commission, after examining the application, has declared that the country fulfils all the conditions for the granting of a financial contribution. i therefore vote to mobilise the fund.
in writing. ‒ the eu has created legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers who are feeling the effects of major structural changes in the world trade pattern or the global financial and economic crisis and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is intended to help them do this. ireland has applied for a contribution from this fund of eur 442 293 to assist 108 redundant workers made redundant in a company which repaired and installed machinery and equipment. support should be directed to career guidance and planning and development, grants and training, training and further education programmes and programmes in the field of higher education. as these measures constitute active labour market measures, the commission and the ep supported ireland's request and, by resolution, supported the use of financial support from the european globalisation adjustment fund amounting to eur 442 293. i voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ as the union has created this legislative and budgetary instrument with the intention of providing additional support to workers to help them reintegrate, i support this reasoned request by ireland.
in writing. - i voted against the motion. the european globalisation adjustment fund, by redistributing taxpayers' money, reduces the eu's competitiveness, thus exacerbating the very problem it is intended to tackle.
in writing. ‒ there is no doubt that we need a register of invasive alien species that are a threat to the union, as the protection of the health of our citizens must be a priority. we need to demand a list that is not political but scientific, up-to-date and capable of minimising the damage to human health caused by invasive alien species. the union list is directly applicable in all member states and it is therefore important that it complies with the requirements referred to above. in slovakia, for example, nearly half a million people are allergic to the pollen of the poppy, yet it took considerable effort to pass a law mandating eradication.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed an implementing regulation to adopt a list of invasive alien species of union concern. this concerns plant and mammal species that were not originally present in europe and that now pose a risk due to their adverse impact on biodiversity, ecosystem services, but also on human health and the economy. as the list presented by the commission is motivated mainly by the political will of the member states and does not take into account scientific criteria, i agree with the resolution of the parliament calling for the withdrawal of this proposal. moreover, the ep was not sufficiently informed about the way in which the risks would be assessed. according to the information available, many of the most problematic invasive alien species are not included in the list, and instead species that have no demonstrable negative impact on biodiversity or human health are included. for these reasons, the commission should withdraw its proposal and, after a thorough examination, submit a new, revised version.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal as i agree with the objection that the list presented is inadequate.
in writing. ‒ the regulation of genetically modified plants and foodstuffs is a very complex issue. i have always taken the view that we must take into account the opinion of the public and domestic producers on genetically modified food, in addition to the long-term food security and the strategic objectives of the eu. because it is very important that 60% of the citizens of the union and the majority of the member states continue to oppose genetically modified products. the european commission is required to act in the licensing process, as we have decided.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the ep's position that the commission's implementing decision which should allow the placing on the market of products containing a specific type of genetically modified maize should be repealed. the commission's decision would allow the cultivation of genetically modified maize which suppresses certain types of proteins which, while conferring resistance to herbicides, are considered to be carcinogens. the rules for growing gmos are still not finalised at eu level. the last legislative proposal was rejected by parliament because the commission had not taken account of a number of factors. it must be remembered that while gmos are grown within the territory of a member state, they are traded across borders. this means that even if there were a national ban on the sale and use of gmos, the spread of these products could not be prevented other than by introducing border controls on imported goods. for example, monsanto applied for the registration of this maize in the netherlands. if this application is approved, the products of this crop can be freely sold in other countries. we therefore ask the commission to withdraw its decision concerning this maize. at the same time, it needs to submit a new legislative proposal on the authorisation of genetically modified food and feed.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the proposal because i do not agree with the arguments for banning the gmo in question and consider the arguments presented to be misleading to the point of being untrue. in particular, if these arguments are also to be used to ban the authorisation of new gmos altogether.
in writing. ‒ in december 2014, the european parliament decided to authorise the preparation of a legislative own-initiative report on the transparency, coordination and convergence of corporate taxation policies in the european union. the commission notes that the contested tax ruling was based on the ruling of the general court of luxembourg of 9 march 2014 in case t-129/06 luxopco v commission [2004] ecr i-487, which was based on the ruling of the general court of luxembourg of 9 march 2014 in case t-129/06 luxopco v commission [2005] ecr i-488, which was based on the ruling of the general court of luxembourg of 9 march 2016 in case t-129/06 luxopco v commission [2006] ecr i-488, which was based on the ruling of the general court of luxembourg of 9 march 2016 in case t-129/06 luxopco v commission [2007] ecr i-489, which was based on the ruling of the general court of luxembourg of 9 march 2016 in case t-129/06 luxopco v commission [2007] ecr i-489, which was based on the ruling of the general court of luxembourg of 9 march 2016 in case t-129/06 luxopco v commission [2007] ecr i-489. recent experience has shown that member states cannot act alone in the fight against aggressive tax planning. the very fact that we should have a single market within the european union requires a coordinated approach. in order to safeguard the principle of the sovereignty of the member states with regard to taxation policies, it is necessary that there be european union legislative measures to improve transparency, coordination and convergence of taxation policies in the european union.
in writing. ‒ the in addition to the substantial negative economic and financial impacts on the union and the member states, tax evasion has other effects in terms of the distrust of citizens and businesses in meeting their tax obligations. the fraud, scandals and the volatility of their resolution and penalties identified demonstrate that the union needs to adopt effective legislative measures to improve transparency, coordination and convergence in the union's corporate tax policies, including penalties and sanctions for non-compliance and infringement. failure to address and delaying the adoption of substantive measures in this area will not only increase the distrust in the fairness of the union legal system, but also the likelihood of further breaches of law and the emergence of new financial frauds.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the report on the transparency, harmonisation and approximation of corporate tax policies in the european union. the importance and timeliness of the report is supported, inter alia, by the 'aggressive tax planning' committed by multinational companies linked to luxembourg, which has reduced the tax liability of the companies concerned to a minimum. cases like this and others like it are a huge financial loss for the european union. to prevent the divergences between member states' laws from being exploited for unjustified tax reductions, we need to act in a unified manner and put in place a clear, easily understandable system to prevent the use of so-called loopholes.
in writing. ‒ the according to a study commissioned by the ep, the eu loses €50-70 billion a year due to corporate tax avoidance through profit shifting. this figure rises to eur 16 190 billion when account is taken of special tax regimes, tax collection shortcomings and other elements. such practices are unacceptable because in complex economic crises all economic actors must contribute on an equitable basis. if some multinationals do not contribute, unequal conditions arise under which, in particular, small and medium-sized enterprises cannot compete and are forced to lay off workers or to limit production and the provision of services. this results in lower tax bases and also less funding for national governments and a reduction in public services. in order to combat aggressive tax planning, member states must act in a coordinated manner while respecting the principle of the sovereignty of the member states. for this reason, there must be legislative measures within the eu to improve transparency, coordination and convergence in tax policies in the union. that's why i supported the resolution.
in writing. ‒ this proposal contributes to intensifying the fight against tax fraud, tax evasion and tax avoidance by promoting clearer, more transparent and fairer rules between member states.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the proposal as the proposal presented focuses mainly on the harmonisation of taxation within the eu, which i reject in principle.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the general relations between the european union and china and deals in detail with political, economic, environmental, social and, not least, human rights aspects. the original draft report, which was submitted four months ago, was not well received by all the groups and they expressed dissatisfaction with it. however, i do not think it would be a happy decision to support the negotiation of a bilateral investment agreement between the european union and taiwan. the purpose of the revised text is therefore to amend the text previously presented and to produce a document which will be useful in the relations between the european union and china. china is one of the most important players on the global stage and the european union must maintain a proper relationship with it.
in writing. ‒ the in order to develop positive relations between the eu and china, it is necessary that they respect each other as strategic partners, not as rivals. the eu is china's largest trading partner, while china is the eu's second largest trading partner. it is necessary to develop mutually beneficial trade relations, to promote investment and tourism development, to address environmental improvement, cyber and computer security, as well as global and regional security issues, through economic and political dialogue and in compliance with applicable regulations and international agreements. it is also a path to enhance the promotion, respect and observance of human rights and the rule of law in china. eu member states need to focus more on china's rapid economic development and seize its opportunities.
in writing. ‒ with respect to china's emergence as a key power and one of the eu's most important partners, i believe that, in the context of the eu-china relations report, it is necessary to not turn a blind eye to human rights abuses in this country. on the contrary, they should be given priority in the dialogue between them. chinese human rights activists say that their freedom is being restricted now as it has not been for decades. one reason is the impending adoption of the draft law on the treatment of foreign ngos, which will further restrict the space for chinese civil society and severely restrict freedom of association and expression in the country, including a ban on 'overseas ngos' not registered with the chinese ministry of public security and provincial security services from providing funds to chinese individuals or organisations, as well as a ban on domestic personnel working on their behalf. it is important to insist in negotiations with chinese officials that their laws conform to international human rights standards and not be silenced by china's current "cheque diplomacy". even chinese investment aid from the eu cannot overshadow a clear stand on human rights.
in writing. ‒ the eu-china strategic partnership is of great importance for bilateral cooperation and for finding common answers to many global challenges, as well as creating a framework for addressing bilateral issues between the eu and china. i supported the resolution because i consider the relations and cooperation between these two partners to be of the utmost importance and also because both parties contribute equally to world stability. however, i see priority cooperation in the economic area where the eu is china's most important trading partner and china is the eu's largest exporter and second most important bilateral partner (after the united states). however, i regret that no significant change in the level of eu-china relations in the area of human and civil rights can be expected, as evidenced by the many cases of disappearance or ill-treatment of chinese human rights defenders. i also see deteriorating relations between the partners because of the strengthening of china's position on the international scene through economic growth, but also through a whole series of reforms, for example in the military sector. i believe that despite these unfavourable developments, the eu-china partnership will continue and focus on areas of mutual benefit that do not represent a conflict of interests or a clash of views.
in writing. ‒ china is a strategic trading partner of the eu and i welcome any intensification of trade relations. of course, the problems of intellectual property infringement and the issue of climate change also need to be discussed in further negotiations. the issue of chinese steel dumping remains an open question to be addressed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as i welcome the enormous and mutual benefits of eu-china relations, but i am equally concerned about the continued lack of respect for human rights and democratic principles in china.
in writing. ‒ i supported the third report by mr belder on eu-china relations. the report, which marks the 40th anniversary of formal relations, gives a good and realistic assessment of the european union's ties with the country. i appreciate that, in addition to the parts that addressed the challenge to maintain and strengthen cooperation, the report also deals with a realistic assessment of the current situation in china, in particular in relation to the problems of respect for human rights, the issue of the death penalty, of which china is the world's largest perpetrator, but also environmental problems. i hope that the challenges to parliament, as formulated, will also help ensure that the great growth of the chinese economy is equally accompanied by positive changes in the areas of human rights and the environment.
in writing. ‒ following recent events, there is no doubt that the world is facing a humanitarian crisis of unprecedented scale, scope and persistence. although there has been a significant increase in funding recently, the need for humanitarian aid is growing much faster. in the future, security risks may increase as the perception of humanitarian aid as a tool used for political or economic reasons becomes more widespread. as a leading donor and a key global player in humanitarian action, the european union must take a leading role in seeking more effective and efficient ways to meet the needs of people affected by conflict and disaster. the world humanitarian summit next year should therefore focus on the special protection of women, children and people with disabilities. specific protection should be provided to children, in particular to facilitate their access to education during emergencies. we must work together to increase the involvement and cooperation of the private sector, ngos, local authorities and international organisations in humanitarian action and building partnerships with non-traditional donors. the european union must take the lead and play a key role in the whs process towards a strong outcome.
in writing. ‒ the european union is the largest donor and supporter of humanitarian action. humanitarian aid is based on four principles, also enshrined in the lisbon treaty: humanity, neutrality, impartiality and independence. it should therefore be provided to people who really need it, regardless of any external or internal factors of the country in which they live. the number of people in need of humanitarian assistance has multiplied in recent years, affected by internal and regional conflicts in countries as well as natural disasters. the situation is further complicated by the fact that some countries do not respect international humanitarian law and thus make it impossible to provide aid. the humanitarian aid regulation was adopted in 1996 and it is logical that in its 20 years of existence it no longer reflects the changing situation in the world. it is therefore necessary to revise and adapt it to new conditions so that the delivery of aid is coordinated and effective in the interests of those who need and rely on humanitarian aid.
in writing. ‒ the in the context of the report on the preparation of the world humanitarian summit: challenges and opportunities in the field of humanitarian aid, i consider it important to underline the paradox of the european union's position that, at a time when the world is facing humanitarian crises that are unprecedented in terms of the number of victims, it proposes to increase the number of unborn children by calling for easier access to abortion. instead of providing the necessary funds to facilities and institutions that save lives, the union wants to support with millions the organizations that perform and promote abortions in developing countries, and thus kill people, even though this is against the needs declared by the women themselves in these countries. recently, for example, on the floor of the european parliament, the zambian ambassador to belgium expressed the wish that development aid should really go to help mothers and children. in fact, in several third world countries, improvements in health care and overall living conditions have led to a decline in maternal mortality. but pro-abortion organizations want to attribute this fact artificially to the worldwide increase in abortions.
in writing. ‒ the number of people in need has more than doubled since 2004, to over 100 million in 2015. up to 250 million people are affected by humanitarian crises and, as a result of forced displacement, there are now more refugees and internally displaced persons than since the second world war. these are just a few of the facts in the report that have made me think more seriously about this question. it worries me that all events, such as natural disasters, the effects of climate change, military conflicts, epidemics, and population migration, most often affect the poor and marginalized, not excluding children. i supported the resolution because i am convinced that new solutions must be found and measures taken to make the world's humanitarian response more effective, which has been severely tested in recent years not only by the various natural disasters but also by the ongoing military conflicts and their consequences. in the context of humanitarian aid, i would like to highlight the work of humanitarian workers who, despite repeated attacks on their persons, provide basic care to the affected people and the affected regions in critical situations.
in writing. ‒ growing challenges such as climate change and related natural disasters, urbanisation and demographic change require adequate responses. i welcome the decision to organise a world humanitarian summit, which will provide a forum for all stakeholders to discuss these pressing issues and to find common solutions.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the proposal for two reasons. the first is that the european union is trying to solve problems around the world, but it cannot solve its own. the second reason is that i have doubts whether the proposal put forward will at all increase the effectiveness of humanitarian aid.
in writing. ‒ the i abstained from the vote on the report on the preparation of the world humanitarian summit to be held in istanbul in may 2016. i think the report as a whole is moving towards good causes, towards more efficient, more transparent and more organised humanitarian aid. it calls for better information exchange, stressing the role of modern technologies in making it easier to deliver humanitarian aid to remote and disaster-affected areas. all of these, as well as the focus on longer-term solutions, prevention and preparedness for disasters, and especially on helping the most vulnerable groups, are topics that i support. on the other hand, the report also contained articles which caused me to abstain in the final vote. these included, in particular, the mandatory payment requirements for the newly established global fund for humanitarian aid and the controversial issue of sexual and reproductive rights.
in writing. ‒ steel and aluminium are therefore two major examples of the difficulties faced by those working in these sectors, who must continue to modernise energy and the environment, which requires an investment policy that few of them have the means to finance today. this industrial policy must provide the necessary tools and means to achieve a successful transition to a low-carbon economy, which cannot be achieved without strategic management of the base metals sector and without providing the necessary tools and means to cope with rising carbon prices. while it is absolutely essential for european economies to reuse base metals and develop a circular economy, recycling alone will not be able to meet the future needs of the european continent involved in the transition to other energy sources. at a time when rapidly developing countries are expanding their base metal industries, which are ensuring the recovery of their economies, are becoming important competitors on the world market for steel, the entire base metal and rare earth industries, and have a comparative advantage in terms of access to raw materials, which can sometimes be multiplied by public support and the search for outlets through dumping, it is essential that the european union develops flexible and reactive trade protection measures.
in writing. ‒ the the european steel industry has a historically significant position in the integration process, as the production of base metals has long played a key role in the development of the economy. the importance of steel lies in its use in many sectors such as automotive, aerospace, construction and others. the current problem is a significant reduction in demand as well as global competition, where europe is losing its competitiveness vis-à-vis third countries, mainly due to high prices and strict standards. i am concerned about the outflow of investment to other countries and particularly concerned about the gradual closure of european metal production and processing plants, which is resulting in the gradual deindustrialisation of europe. as regards new measures introduced or being prepared in the field of climate change and environmental protection and in connection with the transition to low-carbon technologies, the modernisation of the sector needs to proceed smoothly, taking into account the specificities of the sector but also of the regions closely linked to steel production, which is often a significant source of employment.
in writing. ‒ europe's steel industry is the second largest in the world, accounting for 11% of world production. after the global crisis, metal prices fell by a third. for example, while iron was selling for $1,000 a tonne in 2008, it has now dropped to $100 a tonne this summer. in addition to low demand, the eu steel industry is struggling with overcapacity and low prices in china and, on the domestic market, with high energy prices and labour costs. metals are a strategic raw material for the eu and the industry is asking for direct support for technology development and would also be helped by a change in market regulation with the possibility of auctioning electricity several years in advance. the eu's efforts to reduce co2 emissions are also at a disadvantage to its industry compared with countries that do not push for technology upgrades. therefore, steelmakers are asking for an emission duty to be paid on the import of metals into the eu. strategically, in addition to steel, we must promote the recycling of rare and strategic metals, of which the eu has very limited natural resources.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the development of a sustainable european base metal industry, as this is an important sector for economic growth and employment across the eu. the basic metals industry has recently faced a significant decrease in demand as well as strong global competition, especially from third countries where standards and regulations are not as high as in europe. as energy prices in europe are higher than in many other economies, mainly due to the lack of energy market integration, increasing tariffs, fees and network costs severely limit the competitiveness of the european base metal industry on the world market. therefore, the development of a sustainable european base metal industry is driven by the urgent need to combat climate change and high energy prices. the commission must change the allocation system to be based on the amount of metals produced rather than on the greenhouse gases produced within the installation. i consider very important the issues of contracts and energy supply, which vary considerably within the eu member states.
in writing. ‒ in developing a sustainable european base metal industry, it is necessary to establish functioning measures to guarantee growth and competitiveness.
in writing. - i voted against the motion. the current eu climate policy is counterproductive and technical changes alone, without less stringent overall climate targets, will not solve the problems of eu industry.
in writing. ‒ hungary has been in conflict with the european union on several occasions. it is therefore of the utmost importance that the european commission closely monitors and monitors the situation in the field of human rights, respect for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, as it is clear that there is a systematic and serious breach in hungary of the values on which the european union is founded, as set out in article 2 of the treaty on european union. however, the european commission inexplicably sees no systematic threat to democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in hungary, despite the recent high number of contentious issues, including the treatment of asylum seekers, segregated education and discrimination against roma, treatment of ngos, management of norwegian funds, questionable court rulings and others.
in writing. ‒ this is the second time this year that the european parliament has been involved in the situation in hungary. viktor orbán is promoting policies that do not always correspond to the eu's core values, such as respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. the beginning of the whole process in hungary is back in 2011, when we already drew attention to the problematic wording of the hungarian constitution, which spoke about the responsibility of hungary for all hungarians, about a single hungarian nation, about collective rights, about self-government abroad on an ethnic basis, about the recognition of the right to vote for foreign hungarians. the government of viktor orbán has amended the constitution several times, taking over the rights of its own citizens with provisions on students, the homeless, restrictions on freedom of speech, discrimination against churches and, above all, restrictions on the independence of the judiciary. today, when the whole of europe is facing a serious migration crisis, hungary is once again being brought into the negotiations of european representatives, because not all provisions of laws in hungary are still in line with european law.
in writing. ‒ we are currently witnessing the activity of politicians who know the only answer to the challenges of the present through radicalism and excessive nationalism. this trend is spreading among eu member states. these efforts must be countered with the tools at our disposal.
thank you to my colleague cristian predo for a very good report. i have experience in preparing such a report and i know that it is not an easy task. more than ever before, europe today faces new challenges. at this critical moment, we must repeat what the european parliament has been calling for for years. the union and its member states must act consistently and in unison on human rights and democracy. we therefore need to improve the coordination and coherence of our policies. otherwise, we risk losing not only our credibility, but also the fundamental values on which the european union is founded. i am pleased that this report mentions the means and instruments of the european union's external policy. we need to use them as efficiently as possible. especially when it comes to our immediate neighborhood. it is clear that the deteriorating human rights situation in our immediate vicinity has very concrete negative impacts on the eu. the migration crisis is one manifestation of this situation. we need to pay more attention to these issues and fully integrate them into our relations with our partners. recently, there has been a trend towards the distortion and undervaluation of human rights in many regimes, including in europe. in these cases, we should express clear concern. if institutions and international agreements are underestimated, the essence of the fundamental values that guide us in europe is also underestimated. our priority must be to support and strengthen democracy globally and in europe. it is important that we continue to promote freedom of expression and strengthen civil society, as well as provide direct support to human rights defenders. the european parliament has a key role to play in this.
in writing. this is an important issue with direct implications for the quality of life and democracy in individual member states as well as in the european union as a whole. such documents are necessary for discussions on how to ensure the protection of human rights. but they are of little practical use. they would be more useful if they contained a concrete assessment and analysis of the impact of existing policies on respect for human rights, whether within or outside the borders of the european union. unfortunately, though, despite the description of many pages, they are not. it is important to know the effectiveness of the current regulation and its existing instruments. if we look at the situation of women's rights, minorities, including people with different sexual orientations, we see increasing expressions of hatred and xenophobia towards them. they are not affected in any way. the aggressors gain a sense of impunity, and discrimination within society flourishes. there is woefully little being done to counteract this trend. the topic is also important for the shaping of foreign policy and trade relations in the european union. when member states and their representatives establish trade relations, for example in the field of energy, but especially in the field of security, they do not take into account the approach to the protection of human rights of their trading partners in third countries.
in writing. the annual report on human rights and democracy in the world 2014 and the eu's policy in this area is very comprehensive, and the rapporteur should be thanked for a good job. understandably, the ep also brought a stormy debate to the plenary. more than half the world lives under undemocratic, authoritarian and repressive regimes, so human rights protection must be integrated into all eu policies - development, economy, environmental protection - it must be cross-cutting, inseparable and do-it-yourself. maybe it's time we put a human rights hierarchy where the human rights of children come first, because they're the most vulnerable, they can't defend themselves, then there's women, the elderly, and the poor. in the last 10 years, the number of people in need has doubled, people who live without water, without a roof over their heads. the other period saw an increase in the number of armed conflicts, again with children and women suffering the most. next must come fundamental rights, such as freedom of speech, freedom of thought, conscience and religion, the right to vote and to be elected... we must realise that if we fail to guarantee human rights, we are endangering democracy in the world and in europe.
the dayton peace accords served a double purpose. first, they were tasked with stopping the war, and second, they were tasked with resolving the state of bosnia and herzegovina. there's a lot of talk today about the second part. but that's why this debate shouldn't overshadow the positive historical role of dayton in stopping and ending the civil war. this is not something that the dayton peace accords should be taken for granted or questioned. bosnia and herzegovina is still dealing with the aftermath of this devastating war, such as the return of refugees or coping with the grief of those who have lost loved ones. we also wish to express our sincere condolences to them. we're looking at 20 years from 1995. but i would like to take this opportunity to look to the future. what awaits bosnia and herzegovina? first of all, it is a country whose future lies in the european union. but to do so, they need to be a country where all its citizens have equal rights and where the state equally protects the human rights of all citizens without exception. second, bosnia and herzegovina must focus on addressing its socioeconomic problems. they're the hottest in the country. its political leaders must take seriously the implementation of the so-called reform agenda. thirdly, i would like to see a state that does not have to live in constant fear of its territorial integrity or in fear of its very existence. bosnia and herzegovina deserves to be a normal european country on its way to the european union.
in writing. even 20 years in the future, the dayton peace agreement seems to be the most acceptable solution at the time to end the bloodiest phase of the south slavic conflict, the bosnian war. the agreement has been sharply criticized by all three nations concerned because it does not adequately address the situation of either group, but two very important facts must not be overlooked! first, the most important objective in the current situation was to stop the bloodshed in bosnia as soon as possible, and this agreement succeeded in doing so. the other important merit of the peace agreement is that it guarantees equal rights to all three nations involved, the bosniaks, the croats and the serbs.
author.– mr president, the situation in the maldives is alarming on three levels: firstly, the worsening of the democracy in the country; secondly, the lack of impartiality of state institutions; and thirdly, the politically motivated case of the former president nasheed. the gradual curbing of fundamental freedoms, including the right to protest, freedom of expression, freedom of assembly, freedom of association and media freedoms is alarming. we are also worried about the judiciary and its politicisation. the conduct of the trial of former president nasheed is proof in itself, with a clear political agenda and a flawed process. this is why we have a broad cross-party consensus in the european parliament and why we call for targeted sanctions on certain members of the maldivian government and their supporters.
in writing. ‒ a draft decision on the establishment, mandate, number of members and duration of the committee of inquiry into emission measurements in the automotive industry has been submitted to the ep in accordance with rule 198 of the rules of procedure. i voted in favour of the motion and also signed the motion in support of the motion for a vote in the ep plenary. it is important that we properly investigate the co2 emissions scandal and, above all, that measures are taken in the future to prevent car companies from cheating. just a few days ago, the very difficult climate change negotiations in paris ended, and a climate agreement was born that still needs to be ratified by individual states. the europe 2020 strategy also sets the objective of reducing co2 emissions, and i therefore welcomed the european parliament's interest in ensuring that large companies in the automotive industry comply with declared emission values, that consumers are not misled when buying a car and, ultimately, that we protect the environment.
in writing. ‒ while it is important to build on the great progress made by vietnam over the past two decades in the area of the millennium development goals, poverty reduction, economic development, social security, employment, education and healthcare, it is important to insist on respecting freedom of the press and media, access to information, freedom of assembly and association, as well as freedom of religious belief, as reflected in the report of the un special rapporteur on freedom of religion or belief, within the framework of the eu-vietnam partnership and cooperation agreement.
in writing. ‒ the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and vietnam, of the other part, was signed in brussels on 27 june 2012. following the council decision on the signing of the protocol to the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and vietnam, of the other part, it is necessary to take account of the accession of croatia to the european union. therefore, the approval of the proposed protocol includes croatia as a contracting party and commits the eu to provide the authentic version of the agreement in the croatian language.
in writing. ‒ it is important that the framework agreement takes account of the accession of the republic of croatia and thus represents an agreement concluded between the eu as a whole and vietnam.
in writing. ‒ i welcome broader and deeper cooperation with vietnam, which will in future bring it closer and closer to the european union and help it on the path of reforms towards good governance, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as in the fight against corruption, and will steer the country towards economic, social and environmental progress, taking into account the principle of sustainable development.
in writing. ‒ while it is to be appreciated that vietnam has consistently taken a strong pro-european stance over the past decades, we are obliged to insist on respect for human rights and religious freedoms in the context of the adoption of the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, on the one hand, and the socialist republic of vietnam, on the other. it is essential to insist on an end to discrimination and oppression of ethnic and religious minorities, including harassment, stalking, intimidation, detention, house arrest, physical attacks and travel bans, as well as christians, buddhists and followers of other religions. i also strongly condemn the fact that there are estimated to be more than 500 prisoners on death row in vietnam and call on the vietnamese government to introduce an immediate moratorium on executions and to adopt appropriate legislation to abolish the death penalty.
in writing. ‒ the vietnamese economy showed several positive signs of improving performance in 2014. in the world bank's doing business 2014 ranking, vietnam ranked 78th out of 189 economies in the world in terms of the business environment, which i think is a very good result for a developing country. as the eu is vietnam's second largest trading partner after china, i regard the conclusion of the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the eu and its member states, on the one hand, and the socialist republic of vietnam, on the other, as a success. this is good news and i believe that the framework agreement will set a good standard for trade relations between the eu and south east asia as a whole. i expect vietnam to continue to successfully pursue the stabilisation of the macroeconomic situation, accelerate the process of restructuring state-owned enterprises through privatisation, improve the country's business environment, increase the efficiency and modernisation of the agricultural sector, improve the development of science, fight corruption and complete administrative and judicial reform.
in writing. ‒ i think it is important that the eu should seek to continue and strategically develop its trade relations outside the eu. i support the vietnam deal.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the vote on the report by mrs lochbihler on the conclusion of the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation with vietnam. while i agree that partnership and cooperation with vietnam, which is one of the fastest growing economies, should be strengthened, i do not agree with some of the parts that have been included in the report. among the most important were articles on same-sex marriage and the still-legal death penalty in vietnam. despite my abstention in the final vote, i believe that vietnam is on the right track in its efforts to improve the human rights situation and that the 25 years of cooperation with the european union should be supported.
in writing. ‒ the i welcome broader and deeper cooperation with vietnam, which will in future bring it closer and closer to the european union and help it on the path of reforms towards good governance, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as the fight against corruption, and steer the country towards economic, social and environmental progress, taking into account the principles of sustainable development. however, we must call for respect for freedom of religion and end discrimination and oppression of ethnic and religious minorities, including harassment, stalking, intimidation, detention, house arrest, physical attacks and travel bans on christians and buddhists. the competent authorities must refrain from repressing the peaceful exercise of the right to freedom of expression, assembly and association.
in writing. ‒ i see the resolutions on the eu-vietnam framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation as another opportunity to call on the vietnamese authorities to refrain from repressing the peaceful exercise of the right to freedom of expression, assembly and association, while insisting on the release of prisoners of conscience convicted in mass trials of various kinds for crimes, in particular those related to freedom of expression and crimes against the state.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution because the eu-vietnam framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation, once in force, can provide many new opportunities for companies on both sides by increasing market access to goods and services, creating new jobs and reducing poverty. although vietnam, with its 90 million people, has made great progress in the past decades in meeting the millennium development goals, poverty reduction, economic development, social security, employment, education and healthcare, the framework agreement can, in my view, become an important tool for improving other objectives, which undoubtedly include peace, the rule of law, democracy and human rights, maritime security and resource sharing. i expect vietnam to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by the ratification of the comprehensive partnership and cooperation agreement and to continue the reforms undertaken in order to further integrate into the world economy. i draw particular attention to the field of human rights as a key instrument which should be used in a more effective and pragmatic way.
in writing. ‒ the in order to complete economic and monetary union, it will be necessary in the future to take the necessary and responsible steps to revise the european semester, including a new timeframe and a new regime for annual growth analyses, the establishment of a european fiscal board to contribute in an advisory capacity to multilateral surveillance in the euro area, the provision of external representation of the euro area within the imf and many other measures. we can see some positive elements in the european commission's package on completing economic and monetary union, such as completing the banking union, but it is regrettable that the package is essentially responding to demands and concerns that are not ours, just as the economic and monetary union is moving more into intergovernmental waters, especially with regard to external representation. the exclusion of the european parliament from any decision-making on tier 1 elements is totally contrary to the spirit of strengthening democratic accountability.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on completing economic and monetary union in europe. the proposal notes that, as part of the first phase of the roadmap contained in the five presidents' report, the commission published on 21 october 2015 a package containing steps towards the completion of economic and monetary union, consisting of two communications, one recommendation for a council recommendation, a draft council decision and a commission decision. parliament continued to insist on the implementation of the provisions of the six package and the two package legislative acts, while stressing that the existing treaties and instruments would allow the necessary additional steps to be taken to achieve economic and monetary union in europe. the resolution regrets that the package published by the commission does not leave sufficient room for parliamentary scrutiny and debate at pan-european level, which are essential to ensure democratic accountability for decisions taken in the context of economic and monetary union and thus to guarantee citizens' participation in the governance of the euro area.
in writing. ‒ achieving economic and monetary union in europe is an important step towards an efficient community. these must be based on democratic principles and take account of the situation in the member states.
the european union has a great responsibility to promote respect for human rights in the world. it is a matter of human dignity, but it is also a practical way of preventing waves of migration from countries that suppress basic human rights. it is good that the text proposed in this report was balanced and included a call for the abolition of the death penalty, as well as a ban on surrogacy as an inhuman practice that leads women to sell and rent their bodies. on the other hand, a group of amendments have been introduced into the text which go beyond the powers of parliament. it is sad that human rights are being abused as a pretext to promote abortion and same-sex marriage, while the principle of subsidiarity is completely ignored. that's why i had to vote against it in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament (ep) produces an annual report on the situation of human rights and democracy in the world. the report adopted at the december plenary session provides an overview of the human rights situation in 2014. the ep is deeply concerned that human rights and democratic principles and values are not being upheld or are under threat in many parts of the world. the european union, through its possibilities and instruments and through international cooperation, is working to promote human rights and democracy worldwide. this active role is emphasised in the report itself. traditionally, the report mentions minorities among the groups at risk. i supported parliament's decision, but i would like to reiterate that the rights of indigenous national minorities require greater and more comprehensive protection not only outside the eu but also within the european union.
in writing. ‒ the this is an important issue with direct implications for the quality of life and democracy in individual member states as well as in the european union as a whole. such documents are necessary for discussions on how to ensure the protection of human rights. but they are of little practical use. they would be more useful if they contained a concrete assessment and analysis of the impact of existing policies on respect for human rights, whether within or outside the borders of the european union. unfortunately, though, despite the description of many pages, they are not. it is important to know the effectiveness of the current regulation and its existing instruments. if we look at the situation of women's rights, minorities, including people with different sexual orientations, we see increasing expressions of hatred and xenophobia towards them. they are not affected in any way. the aggressors gain a sense of impunity, and discrimination within society flourishes. there is woefully little being done to counteract this trend. the topic is also important for the shaping of foreign policy and trade relations in the european union. when member states and their representatives establish trade relations, for example in the field of energy, but especially in the field of security, they do not take into account the approach to the protection of human rights of their trading partners in third countries.
in writing. the protection and respect of human rights, freedoms, democracy, the principles and values of the rule of law have been increasingly disregarded in the world in recent times. many declarations and agreements remain mere formalities on paper, lacking verifiable control and the possibility of sanctions and penalties. this ultimately makes it impossible to evaluate them clearly, clearly and intelligibly. the eu should be a leader in promoting human rights and democracy. however, this requires a review of the work done so far in all the eu policies concerned. consequently, a series of measures should be taken to bring about a state of greater concern for and natural respect for human rights, not only in developing countries but also in developed countries.
in writing. ‒ the practice of surrogacy for money is becoming more common and spreading rapidly worldwide. today we are witnessing an undignified global marketplace for women's bodies and motherhood, with women in difficult economic and social situations and children literally and figuratively viewed as commodities. surrogacy has become a commercial practice that is incompatible with human rights and, above all, with human dignity. i therefore see an urgent need to address the human rights implications for mother and child at the international level. in the legislation of a civilized society, there is no need to look for laws that are on the side of money against the most basic human rights. i therefore ask in my motion that the ep formally reject the practice of gestational surrogacy, which involves reproductive exploitation and the exploitation of the human body for financial or other gain, particularly in the case of vulnerable women in developing countries. i believe that the ep should consider the issue of surrogacy as an urgent matter in terms of human rights instruments and advocate the prohibition of such practices.
in writing. ‒ i consider the annual report to be an important tool for reviewing, communicating and discussing eu policy on human rights, democracy and the rule of law worldwide. while i supported the resolution, i must express concern that human rights and democratic values such as freedom of speech, thought, conscience and religion and freedom of assembly and association are increasingly under threat in many parts of the world. in the face of new threats and crises, i believe it is essential to implement more rigorous preventive measures in the future, which would enable us to recognise early warning signals, such as the oppression of minorities and human rights violations, which point to potential conflicts and humanitarian disasters. there are many areas where human rights and democracy are being violated, but as a woman, i would like to express my deep concern about the increase in violence against women and girls and violence against children. i call on the commission and all stakeholders to deliver more effectively on the eu's commitments to empower women and girls and to prioritise children's rights in the eu's external policies.
in writing. ‒ the eu faced many challenges in 2014 with regard to human rights violations in the world. it is important that we actively continue our conviction that the defence and promotion of human rights is the only way to achieve security and stability in the world.
in writing. ‒ i did not vote for the 2014 annual report on human rights and democracy. i support the idea that parliament should annually adopt a report on the situation of human rights and democracy in the world, and i think that its discussion and adoption on the european parliament's floor sends a clear signal that respect for human rights and the promotion of democracy in the world is one of the european union's most important priorities. on the other hand, i think that reports should focus on the core of human rights and not set too broad themes or go into too much detail on controversial topics. since there were several in the report, i decided not to support it in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ the on the occasion of the 20th anniversary of the general framework agreement for peace in bosnia and herzegovina, concluded on 21 november 1995 in dayton and formally signed on 14 december 1995 in paris, it is important to recall the dayton agreement's crucial role in ending the war, which has claimed the lives of some 220 000 people and resulted in 2 million refugees. despite the widespread understanding in the european parliament that the provisions of the dayton peace agreement must be respected in order for bosnia and herzegovina to become a member of the european union in the future, the political situation in the country remains very tense and the results of the referendum to be held in serbia are awaited. the anniversary of the dayton peace accords should serve as a reminder that a diplomatic solution is possible even in the worst of conflicts. bosnia and herzegovina and its people deserve a peaceful and prosperous future, and the integration process is crucial in this respect as well.
in writing. the dayton peace accords ended the war in bosnia and herzegovina, which had left 200,000 people dead and more than two million displaced. it is a significant and fundamental peace act that addresses relations and cooperation between the countries of the southern balkans. although the parties to the treaty committed themselves to respect the un charter, the helsinki final act and to resolve disputes peacefully, the conclusions of the treaty did not materialize as expected. non-cooperation, ethnic strife, hostility and complex socioeconomic conditions continue to divide the countries of the southern balkans. maximum diplomatic efforts are needed to bring these countries together to resolve their differences and normalize their relations through rational, considerate communication. europe without a peaceful balkans will never be a united and secure europe.
in writing. ‒ this resolution commemorates the conclusion of the peace agreement that ended the bloodiest conflict in europe since the second world war in 1995. however, twenty years later, it is clear that even though the war in the balkans has ended, bosnia and herzegovina is still not a functioning and self-sufficient state. the country's institutional structure is too complex and inefficient in the long run. i also supported the resolution because it is necessary to express support for bosnia and herzegovina, which has already managed to solve many problems. i believe that the country will gradually transform itself into another eu member state. bosnia and herzegovina has been devastated by war and today its greatest challenge is to integrate those people who have been most affected by the conflict. many people displaced by the war still remain in the country and it is still difficult to ensure their safe return to their homes. therefore, i support the state's efforts to provide a fair, comprehensive and lasting solution for displaced persons. the social and economic inclusion of the most vulnerable, including roma and women, must be improved. regrettably, however, there are still some 7,000 missing persons in the country. all the countries of the western balkans must realise that cooperation is the only way to reconcile and overcome hatred.
in writing. ‒ the dayton peace agreement was an important milestone in ending the civil war in bosnia and herzegovina. its 20th anniversary shows its worth. for its effective enforcement, respect for the rights of minority groups must be fostered. it is important to remember the horrors of war and to cherish the peace that exists.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's joint resolution on the 20th anniversary of the dayton peace treaty. it was a landmark treaty that ended the war in bosnia and as such deserves to be remembered. in this context, i particularly appreciate the fact that it is a short and unambiguous text commemorating the end of the war and does not go into the various recommendations for bosnia and herzegovina, which in my view do not belong in this type of resolution.
in writing. ‒ unfortunately, we are currently witnessing the spread of armed conflicts, especially in ukraine, syria, iraq, libya and yemen, as well as international conflicts, which in an increasingly globalised world threaten global stability and security and result in a less stable and less secure european union neighbourhood. it should also be said very clearly and loudly that arms transfers to conflict-affected states could have contributed to these conflicts. i therefore welcome the entry into force of the att and the information activities undertaken by the european union to promote the general ratification and implementation of the att. it is essential that member states which have not yet ratified this treaty do so at the earliest opportunity. governments bear political responsibility for whether military or dual-use goods are exported or not, and therefore member states must provide detailed information on each licence issued in order to allow controls to be carried out at european union level to ensure that countries do not violate the common position criteria for reasons of economic, political or personal interests.
in writing. the political and security situation in the world, local and regional conflicts, together with the increasing threats of terrorism, are forcing new rules for arms exports. europe must adapt to this situation and review its existing legislation in this area, including public procurement and controls on arms exports and possession, in order to protect and ensure the safety of its citizens. finding a balance between the economic, economic and financial interests of arms exporters and manufacturers and preserving the freedoms of the population on the one hand and ensuring the protection and security of the population on the other will not be easy. however, the union will have to reach a compromise that takes all security risks into account to the maximum extent.
in writing. ‒ as the uncontrolled proliferation of weapons poses a serious threat to peace and security, i support the motion for a resolution on arms exports in view of the implementation of the european union's common position. in fact, in the period 2010-2014 alone, eu member states were responsible for 25.4% of all large conventional arms deliveries in the world, with a significant proportion of these ending up in the hands of repressive regimes, armed groups or terrorists. i therefore believe that it is necessary to ensure even greater transparency in these trade deals, in order to ensure that countries do not violate the criteria of the common position for reasons of economic, political or personal interest and do not contribute to fuelling conflicts in third countries with european weapons. moreover, statistics already provide the alarming fact that somewhere in the world, every minute, a person dies as a result of gun violence.
in writing. ‒ the the security situation in the eu's southern and eastern neighbourhoods has deteriorated dramatically, and at the same time we continue to witness an uncontrolled proliferation of weapons. eu member states have been responsible for up to a quarter of all large conventional arms deliveries in the world in recent years. it is regrettable that the eu cannot agree that trade relations are not always in the security interests of individual member states. arms exports, which also involve eu states, are one of the main causes of the continuing spread of conflict. moreover, it is becoming evident that weapons also end up in the hands of terrorists, repressive regimes, or countries that sponsor international terrorism and behave aggressively on the international stage. while it is not possible to prevent arms exports, as they are an important part of the economy for many countries, it is imperative that the eu establishes effective and consistent means of controlling arms sales. such control is enshrined in the eu's fundamental treaties and forms an integral part of its foreign and security policy. governments bear political responsibility for where exported military goods are used, yet they interpret export control rules according to their own wishes. i therefore believe that if the union is to be credible to its foreign partners, it must arrive at a coherent and coordinated position on the arms trade.
in writing. - i did not vote on the resolution on arms exports. in particular, the report called for strict implementation of the common position by member states and criticised arms exports by some large member states to third countries. i think that, especially in the current deteriorating security situation, it is necessary to be vigilant about arms exports and to avoid situations where arms exports could support armed conflicts in third countries. on the other hand, i am of the opinion that defence policy must remain a matter of national sovereignty and cannot therefore be restricted by the european union. and unfortunately, the report as it proposed to implement the common position, and thus to give more powers to the commission, was not acceptable to me because of the sovereignty violation.
in writing. ‒ the a recent decision by the enlarged board of appeal of the european patent office allows the patenting of plant traits, including when these traits are developed from or could be obtained by essentially biological breeding methods. this decision constitutes a narrow interpretation of article 53 (b) of the european patent agreement, and thus suggests wide possibilities for granting patents covering different plant varieties. this decision by the european patent office undermines the innovation capacity of the plant breeding sector for the development of new varieties and poses a threat to global food production and food security. this may have a negative impact on european competitiveness and may lead to a monopoly on the food market by reducing the diversity of products offered to consumers. unrestricted access to biological material is needed to stimulate the innovative power of the breeding sector. undermining the innovation capacity of the plant breeding sector for the development of new varieties poses a threat to global food production and food security and will have a negative impact on european competitiveness.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on patents and plant breeders' rights. intellectual property rights are an important means of protecting the economic incentives to develop new plant products and ensuring competitiveness. plant breeding is an innovative process that has been used by farmers and farming communities since the beginning of agriculture, and non-patented breeding species and methods are important for genetic diversity. directive 98/44/ec governs biotechnological inventions, in particular genetic engineering, but its divergent interpretation is currently causing major problems, and the commission should therefore clarify as soon as possible the scope and interpretation of the directive, in particular articles 4, 12 (3) (b) and 13 (3) (b) thereof, in order to ensure legal clarity with regard to the prohibition of the patentability of products obtained by essentially biological means and the fact that breeding with biological material covered by the scope of the patent is permitted.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution of the parliament. i think the legal state as it is today not only creates legal uncertainty around intellectual property rights, but it's also directly detrimental to innovation and progress. it is inconceivable that materials obtained by biological processes, by breeding, which have been used by mankind since time immemorial, should be covered by patents which would not allow their further free use. on the contrary, the derogation that should apply to those cases is beneficial not only for the further development of new species but also for the overall food security of the population.
in writing. ‒ the the political, humanitarian and security situation in the country is deteriorating and poses risks to neighbouring countries. more than 200,000 residents have fled the country and about 250 have been reported killed since last april. in november, the son of prominent human rights activist pierre claver mbonimpa was killed. recently, the government closed the bank accounts of 10 human rights ngos. i therefore welcome the european union's reaction, which has imposed sanctions on four people close to the president, as well as its letter to the government to open consultations under article 96 of the cotonou agreement. i strongly condemn the ongoing killings and human rights violations, as well as the deteriorating humanitarian situation. we must ensure that further escalation is avoided, including through political dialogue between the government and the opposition, including civil society, and ensuring accountability for violations of the violence committed.
in writing. political violence, human rights violations, killings and torture in burundi may escalate into genocide and a regional crisis, which will result in a deepening of the world refugee crisis. this year alone, more than 250 people have been killed in burundi, and 200,000 have fled to neighboring countries. the eu must use all diplomatic channels, including economic and financial measures, to bring this inhumane practice to an end as a matter of urgency. at the same time, it is necessary to look for ways and possibilities of resolving this conflict, also with the help of the un.
in writing. ‒ the the security situation in burundi has deteriorated significantly in recent days following attacks on three military camps. in late 2015, he was involved in a plot to assassinate a former president of the republic of burundi, ali bongo, and his son, ali bongo, in order to gain control of the military forces. burundi is one of the world's least developed countries and ranks first in the world hunger index, with up to 67% of the population living below the poverty line. also, the political situation in this state is in crisis, with no respect for human rights or electoral laws. this is also why more than 200,000 people have been displaced or have sought refuge in neighbouring countries as a result of the deteriorating political situation in burundi. the resolution calls on the eu and its member states to consider freezing all non-humanitarian aid to the burundian government until the excessive use of force and human rights violations recorded by the un high commissioner for human rights are stopped by government forces and a political solution is found to strengthen civil society. the eu should tackle the fundamental problems of inequality, poverty and chronic malnutrition.
in writing. ‒ it is regrettable that this park has become one of the most dangerous places in the world for wildlife conservation. armed groups are involved in the illegal exploitation of the natural resources of the park through mining and charcoal production, in support of military operations, as well as for personal gain. armed groups are engaged in unrestricted large-scale poaching for food and trade in ivory and wildlife meat. poor discipline, irregular pay, and food shortages have caused more and more military personnel to engage in illegal activities, including artisanal mining, charcoal production, and poaching of wildlife.
in writing. ‒ the virunga national park, located in the democratic republic of congo, is africa's oldest national park, a unesco world heritage site, and a region known worldwide for its unique habitats and rich biodiversity, making it the most biologically diverse park in africa. the park is known primarily for its critically endangered mountain gorillas. despite its status as a protected wilderness, the park has been threatened for decades by armed groups engaged in poaching, deforestation, and other unsustainable and illegal forms of resource exploitation. for more than two decades, violent conflict has raged in and around virunga national park, where the rebels and the official army have been financed mainly by illegal mining of minerals and natural resources and by poaching. in the light of the above, it is necessary that the commission and the member states take effective measures and the necessary steps to persuade the government of the democratic republic of the congo to protect the virunga national park and to eliminate all forms of violence and armed conflict.
in writing. - i supported the resolution to protect virunga national park. it is africa's oldest national park and home to many endangered species, such as the mountain gorilla. and it is extremely sad that it has long been threatened by armed rebels who loot it for ivory or mineral wealth, but also by european companies who try to extract oil from it under the guise of scientific activity. such practices are not only in violation of the contracts that gave the companies permission to extract oil in the congo but also demonstrate a complete lack of respect for nature. we therefore call on companies to honour their commitments and stop harmful activities in the park, on the government to stop issuing mining permits, and on the park's boundaries and natural resources to be preserved for future generations.
