in writing. i would like to thank italian prime minister matteo renzi for presenting the achievements of the italian presidency. italy took over the presidency in july 2014, at the end of the mandates of the european institutions. it was not easy, but it must be acknowledged that the italian presidency helped to consolidate and finalise the new european institutional structure, which is a prerequisite for the eu to function. italy can also boast of smaller steps, such as the compromise on genetically modified organisms (gmos) between parliament, the council and the commission. this compromise, which we have been waiting for since 2010, will be confirmed in parliament today. italy has also achieved some other important goals in the areas of tax policy, bank rescue, migration problems and the european budget, not least in consolidating the 'soul' of europe. but italy has not been successful in many of its missions. however, important work now awaits a small country with a big heart - latvia, especially in the area of providing new jobs, increasing the eu's role in the neighbourhood and the world, and sustaining european values and culture.
madam president, i welcome the compromise agreed because i am convinced that this solution will satisfy neither the supporters nor the opponents of such modified organisms. it is a compromise that allows nation states to prohibit and restrict, on legal, clear grounds, the cultivation of such crops on their territory. this is the correct position, in my opinion. a central, european position which would force some countries to grow such crops or, on the contrary, prohibit crops for the whole of the european union would, in my view, be wrong and would infringe the sovereignty of individual national states. the position of the czech republic, which i represent here, has been that it should be left to the national authorities to decide whether or not to allow these crops on their territory. so i welcome the compromise and i believe it is a good basis for a debate on what specific crops to allow or not.
i support the agreement reached today and i was happy to support it because it corrects the wrong regulation of 2001. in 2012, as minister for agriculture, i was involved in the council and i know how tough the negotiations were and how reluctant some countries were to reach such a compromise, so i would like to extend my sincere congratulations to parliament, the coordinators and also to all those who participated in this compromise, including the chair of the environment committee. the key solutions to this compromise are, of course, well known. the point is that countries can choose not to grow gmos without risking being sued by multinationals, and that countries that do grow gmos must also protect their area of cross-border influence. it is also important that we have adopted this in the european parliament before the negotiations with the united states begin, because this will be one of the key areas in this agreement.
in writing. at the january plenary session, meps adopted legislation allowing member states to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified plants on their territory, even if this is otherwise permitted in the european union. until now, the admissibility of genetically modified plants has been decided by the european union in cooperation with the member states, which has approved or rejected the application of the producers of genetically modified plants on the basis of a risk assessment carried out by the european food safety authority and the competent authorities of the member states. as the european union is committed to uniform rules throughout its territory, which is also in line with the principles of the internal market, it should first of all seek to improve existing authorisation and risk assessment procedures and to increase the democratic participation of its authorities and of the member states and their citizens in decisions on new varieties of genetically modified plants. it is necessary to adopt as soon as possible such rules as will definitively resolve the outstanding issues concerning the cultivation of genetically modified plants in the territory of the european union. as the directive does not propose a solution which takes account of all the issues, i abstained from voting.
in writing. i supported the frédérique ries report, which gives eu countries the option of restricting or banning the cultivation of genetically modified organisms on their territory, even though they are already authorised at eu level. this report is the result of negotiations between the commission, parliament and the council, which we have been waiting for since 2010. it is true that the compromise does not cover all the requirements of parliament (legislative basis, liability for infringements, etc.), but it is the best we could achieve in the given situation. if they insist on continuing negotiations with the council, it will make it even harder to find a compromise. new legislation was urgently needed, as under the current legislation, countries were not able to ban the cultivation of gmos on their territory. if they did, they could be sued by multinationals that market gmo materials. the compromise text also requires that there be a border zone around the gmo farms so that the gmo does not 'infect' neighbouring farms with traditional or organic production. the impact of gmos on the future of agriculture, health, access to food, etc. is still unclear, and their mass release into nature is irreversible. in fact, experiences in america and india indicate an increase in herbicide resistance and increased use of pesticides. eu member states and citizens should have the right to prohibit such risky behaviour on their territory.
i would like to thank the president of the european council, mr donald tusk, for his excellent and comprehensive presentation of the conclusions adopted by the heads of state or government of the european union in brussels in december. the council has rightly given the new juncker investment plan for growth and jobs the greatest attention, as it is crucial for the long-term development and stability of the european union. the foundations for a new economic momentum were laid under barroso, with a focus on balancing public finances and structural reform. now is the time for spin, and it is investments - only then can they bring about the more vital european union you spoke of, mr president. the investment plan endorsed by leaders in december will mobilise more than eur 300 million over the next three years through a new european fund, boosting economic growth, job creation and competitiveness. the important thing is that it's not just about taxpayer money. juncker's project will only succeed if it is supported and if everyone does what they have to do - in particular the commission and the member states. we must create a legal basis, take all the measures, but, dear friends, this project will fail if it is understood by citizens and businesses as a bureaucratic project. they have to take him for their own. it will show whether the european institutions are prepared and sufficiently capable of acting in an enterprising manner.
what we are witnessing in the mediterranean is frightening. organized crime groups put hundreds of desperate people, often paying their entire life savings, on unmanned ships, leaving them stranded in the middle of the sea. all this is happening before our eyes, on the threshold of europe, we keep alerting politicians to the problem, and yet nothing happens. i regret it. unfortunately, 2014 was another record year. we need to move faster, we need a holistic approach. human trafficking is one of the worst forms of organized crime, and we're talking about women and children, not numbers. we are asking the european commission, as we agreed in the crim special committee report last year, for more safe and legal routes to europe, in particular more financial support and more solidarity between member states. and listen, dear colleagues, to the call of desperate people.
there are too few women in decision-making. we're also in the minority in the european parliament, but things are getting better. in october 2013, 17,8% of board members in leading european companies were women. if it were not for various activities at eu level, such as the european strategy for gender equality and the legislative initiative on women's quotas on administrative boards, it would be less than 14%. reducing gender gaps is an area where the european union can and must play a leading and important role, but there is not enough to do at the end of the chain. women's quotas in politics, in economics are welcome, but if we want to make lasting changes, we have to act at different stages of the life cycle. for example, to expose young people to different career options beyond the stereotypes of women as computer programmers, men as nurses in hospitals. encourage fathers to take more responsibility for their children and take part in parental leave. the price of inequality we pay in the european union is high, with research showing that the gross domestic product per capita of the european union is about 10% lower because of the gender gap in the labour market.
in writing. our citizens are very concerned about corruption and the state of democracy in europe. the european commission published the first reports on the state of corruption in the member states last year, unfortunately late, apparently due to pressure from certain countries who were not happy with the content. the reports revealed that corruption is truly a problem throughout europe. all of us! the commission will publish a follow-up report next year. it would be appropriate for the reports to include a section on the state of corruption in the eu institutions. to my great surprise, the commission is still delaying this decision, even though european citizens lose hundreds of millions of euros every year to fraud in the eu institutions alone. what is the commission afraid of? is the rule this time that the one who fears the truth hides from it? you have to fight corruption all the time. but we must always start with ourselves, and this is especially true for those who shape policy, starting with the european institutions. in the european parliament, we did a lot of work in the crim committee during the last mandate. we have adopted a number of concrete recommendations, most of which have not yet been implemented. i therefore call on the commission and the member states to do more to really eliminate tax secrecy and tax havens and to fight more comprehensively against this cancer that is ravaging our societies.
latvia begins its journey with a certain bitterness. not because of you, madam president. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy. the escalation of intolerance, nationalism, extremism, and other extreme attitudes is a cause for great concern today. we must look to our society for the causes of radicalisation and take responsibility. this is a reminder that we pay too little attention to multiculturalism and the integration of immigrants into our society. we must do more to bring about reconciliation and peace between the west and the muslim world, and the first such bold step would be to bring about harmony among the peoples to recognize palestine. i was shocked by recent reports in the french media that violence among children was escalating in schools, and that some did not even want to join in the minute of silence. europe also earns a red card for its austerity measures, especially at the expense of education and social services, especially for the most vulnerable groups in our society.
i am happy to see a successful and ambitious latvia at work, for the first time in a leading european role. my sincere congratulations and best wishes. latvia has qualified for this role as an example of a country that has overcome a deep crisis through decisive reforms. to the colleague who has been disrespectful about latvia's success, i would like to say this: if our former colleague dombrovskis and his team had not taken on the responsibility of governance a few years ago, latvia would have remained a country with a much higher depopulation rate. i welcome the ambition, the overall concept and the priorities of the latvian presidency. i also welcome the programme's alignment with the commission. i really like the announcement of the review of the 2020 strategy. i expect the strategy of good goals to be upgraded with new integral cross-sectoral development concepts. i see a clear need for such a concept to be developed in the trio of energy, agriculture and environment. i wish to add particular value to latvia in the future of its eastern neighbourhood.
until you fail us, we trust and believe in you. that's why i'm interested in your paper and the contents of your program. the crowd that passed through paris has a language. silence was also eloquent, and their message came to us. but crowds don't solve problems. the problems have to be solved by politicians, and you are at the head of europe's common foreign and security policy. i'm interested in how we're going to deal with you at the head of the open, frozen conflicts around europe. we've missed a lot of opportunities to do something about it over the years. however, all of them - i won't list them - remained open. and the time is such that they will be much harder to save today than they were before. from the caucasus to palestine to the western sahara. i wish you every success and we look forward to working with you.
mr president, madam vice-president/high representative, dear colleagues, our time is not romantic at all. we are facing a war and growing violence within europe and conflicts in our vicinity which are close to fukuyama’s forecast on the clash of civilisations. we have to find proper answers to the question of what to do when our concept of soft power – known as the concept of sharing – is threatened by the concept of imposing by means of hard power. we have to agree, following our values and principles, on what we want to negotiate and what we do not sell. we can do that only by respecting our own identity. to defend our values and principles means to defend our identity and its future. i would like to see the common foreign, security and defence policy (cfsp) being an essential part of the union’s political excellence. let me mention on this occasion only two security-related points in this regard. firstly, i consider good governance in candidate countries and in the countries with association status a key element of the cfsp. secondly, it is important that the eu does not allow a destabilisation of the western balkans. i welcome your and commissioner hahn’s endeavours in the region. we need more europe in that very direction. i appreciate your concept of interinstitutional cooperation and your understanding of the role of parliamentary diplomacy as well. thank you very much and good luck in 2015.
the european union needs a new european security strategy. we need a proactive, not reactive, foreign and security policy. free movement within the european union remains a priority, but on the other hand we must do everything in our power to prevent terrorist attacks such as the one in paris. to ensure greater security for the citizens of the european union, we need to strengthen controls at the external borders, improve the exchange of information between intelligence agencies and other organisations on foreign fighters, terrorist networks and air passengers. we also need to work more closely with isps to remove hate speech and terrorist content as quickly as possible. i am in favour of a european investigation order to solve problems in cases of obtaining information and evidence in cross-border cases. i also support the member states increasing their defence capability, investing more in it, and uniting our views on eastern policy.
in writing. the terrorist attack in france last week on the editorial office of the satirical newspaper charlie hebdo is a dark stain on security policy within the eu. the question is how to ensure a higher level of security. in the days after the attack, there are a series of initiatives to take decisive action in the fight against terrorism. this calls for careful thought. we have democracy, values and principles that look after the well-being of all europeans. security is one of the key conditions for development, education, economic growth, jobs and investment. and that is why it is necessary to examine whether security, defence and foreign policies are appropriate or whether they need to be changed and adjusted to ensure a higher level of security. but this must be done in a deliberate and coordinated way, with a strategy for the future. certainly, we need to be careful not to fall into a trap. this trap means that in the name of greater security, we would increase the power of surveillance over the movement and travel of citizens. we cannot provide greater security by restricting human rights and freedoms. excessive surveillance and unchecked and uncontrolled data collection can have the opposite effect and increase the risk of terrorism. i therefore call for a rational approach to the measures that will follow to increase the sense of security among europeans.
it's hard to say anything new. in recent months, we have seen modest progress in ukraine, with the minsk peace talks resulting in a prisoner exchange, but then with the negotiators again at a dead end due to differences over how to achieve a lasting ceasefire and a bilateral withdrawal of forces. that's reality and that's the challenge. the humanitarian situation is alarming. we must step up efforts to resolve the ukraine crisis, which has lasted for too long. this year, i expect a change in rhetoric between the union and russia, which has begun to take on the appearance of a cold war. russia must respect the agreements. only then will it be possible to take a step forward for the urgently needed reforms in ukraine, so that it can breathe with full lungs. the world is witnessing a disturbing trend in the decline of peace. europe is no longer safe either, but ukraine is the example of the struggle for pro-european values, and let us bear this in mind and start acting more decisively and more quickly.
you have found the right words in the introduction, the right balance between the importance of the state of egypt, also for us, also for regional peace, for stability, and of course between our expectations of such a state. we cannot renounce the highest expectations when it comes to the rule of law, human rights individual and collective. but when we write resolutions - and i would say that this is a bit more stringent than what egypt perhaps deserves at this moment and what we want - when we write resolutions like this, we have to know that we need a country like egypt in the middle east. in the turbulent middle east. and we must appreciate the potential that such a state can have in terms of stability, counterterrorism and a whole range of other strategic interests for our continent and the world. so i think it's right to expect, also in egypt, that it will develop in a democratic direction, that it will implement its constitution and that it will have democratic elections with an elected parliament.
i am taking part in this debate because i supported the oral question to the commission with the wish that the case of italian marines massimiliano latorre and salvatore girone be resolved as soon as possible, in accordance with legal and human standards. i take yesterday's decision by the supreme court of india as a positive sign in relation to a sick marine in an otherwise complex and sensitive case. i hope that there will be action and an atmosphere on both sides to enable a swift resolution of the long-standing issue in a bilateral framework.
i would like to thank my colleague from the european people's party, the rapporteur jarosław wałęsa, for producing a balanced report on the activities of the european ombudsman emily o'reilly and her predecessor the ombudsman's role is important because it gives citizens of the european union the opportunity to complain if the european institutions are in breach of the law and the rules unfortunately, many more infringements occur in countries, in national institutions, than in european institutions. in the event of serious human rights violations in the member states, citizens of the european union must turn to the court of justice in strasbourg, the institution of the council of europe. the european union is completely powerless on these issues and efforts to improve things in this area have been very slow. i am glad that there is a european ombudsman, but unfortunately the name of this institution gives too much hope. we need a genuine european ombudsman with full powers, who can also respond to the many violations in the member states and protect human rights and freedoms in the european union in a comprehensive manner. i know.
on behalf of the s&d group. i am saddened that we have put on the agenda another country where the rights of the lgbt community are seriously threatened due to violations of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. kyrgyzstan has made considerable progress in recent years. despite this, democracy in the country is still fragile. the bill passed by the house on anti-propaganda is a step in the wrong direction. and the intimidation of vulnerable groups by the media, the public, political and religious leaders is unworthy of democracy. today, we are sending a very clear signal to the country and the region that any discrimination based on sexual orientation is unacceptable. freedom of speech must never be and cannot be compromised. the events of the past week have once again reminded us that freedom is not a given. finally, i therefore strongly urge all those responsible to refrain from any action that would further endanger you and further marginalise vulnerable groups.
in writing. i voted for the report by jarosław wałęsa on the activities of the european ombudsman for 2013 because it is correct, it presents both the positive aspects of the ombudsman's work and the possible improvements. i would like to point out the shortcomings of the basic concept of the european ombudsman, whose name gives too much hope. the ombudsman gives eu citizens the opportunity to complain about breaches by the european institutions, but unfortunately many more breaches happen in the institutions of the member states. when state institutions violate human rights and the rule of law, eu citizens must turn to the council of europe's institution, the court of justice in strasbourg. the eu cannot help them. i therefore believe that the eu must find common ground and also greatly strengthen cooperation in the field of justice, inter alia by enabling the european ombudsman to respond to the many serious violations in the member states. in this way, the eu will be truly founded on the values of democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, as enshrined in the preamble of the eu treaty.
in writing. since the fall of the regime of moammar gaddafi in 2011, libya has been facing a political, institutional and security crisis and internal unrest. given the fact that the eu and its member states also intervened in the war in 2011, it is necessary to acknowledge that we also bear a certain responsibility for helping libyan citizens. above all, we have a responsibility to support the restoration of peace and stability in the country. the ongoing fighting and unrest has further divided the country over the past six months. the fighting has been characterized by human rights violations, the deaths of many civilians and a widespread humanitarian crisis. hundreds of migrants and refugees fleeing violence in libya have died on boats carrying refugees across the mediterranean to italy and malta. i strongly condemn any violence and violations of international humanitarian law. for this reason, i call on the eu and its member states to support the un and other initiatives to resolve the situation. above all, the eu should provide humanitarian aid. there is a need to help libya in this difficult period of transition, marked by unrest and war. for the reasons stated above, i have signed the resolution and i have voted in favour of it.
in writing. parliamentary elections were held in ukraine at the end of october 2014. despite the unrest in the country, the elections were held peacefully and democratically. the new government, composed of pro-european forces, has a majority to adopt the necessary reforms and agreements. the latter are important for speeding up european integration, modernising and developing the country, and introducing democracy and the rule of law. however, we cannot ignore the seriousness of the situation. the armed conflict in eastern ukraine has caused thousands of deaths, left many injured and forced hundreds of thousands of people to flee their homes. he is a member of the 'people's council' of the so-called 'donetsk people's republic'. for this reason, i express my full solidarity with ukraine and its citizens. i condemn any terrorist act or criminal conduct by separatists or other illegal forces in eastern ukraine. at the same time, i warmly welcome the positive outcome of the elections in october, which were held peacefully despite the difficult political situation in the country. in difficult moments, it is necessary to provide economic and political support to ukraine in order to stabilise the country as soon as possible and to calm the situation. above all, to give citizens the chance to live a better life. i want to see this situation improve, so i supported the resolution and voted for it.
in writing. freedom of speech, expression, association and assembly are among the basic pillars of a democratic and pluralist society. the trampling of these fundamental freedoms must be strongly condemned and the wider public must be alerted to the violations taking place in egypt. that is why i supported the resolution, because i believe that the european parliament must do everything in its power to ensure that such violations do not occur in the 21st century. it is estimated that 41,000 people have been arrested and around 1,400 killed since the military intervention in egypt in july 2013. among them are many who have been detained or killed simply for peaceful protest or for expressing disagreement with the existing regime. unfortunately, violence against women is also widespread. lgbt groups and those who support them are suppressed. the situation is also worsening for ngos, as the state insists on imposing ever greater controls on them. freedom of speech, expression and work is being violated. people are oppressed and intimidated. the european parliament can no longer stand idly by and watch the injustices and horrors that are taking place. these events must be publicly condemned and every effort must be made to prevent them.
in writing. at the january plenary session, meps voted on the motion for a resolution on the commission's 2015 work programme, tabled by the greens/efa group. this proposal was a response to the fact that the new commission's work programme largely reflects the priorities of pre-crisis europe, maintaining the traditional economic policy framework that led to the crisis and failing to recognise what the european union really needs and what its citizens really demand. the motion for a resolution, inter alia, highlights the commission's intention to withdraw its proposal to amend six pieces of waste legislation (the 'circular economy') and encourages it to promote an increase in ambition as part of the ongoing legislative process and to complement this process with additional initiatives where necessary. waste is a major problem throughout the eu. during the previous mandate, considerable efforts were made to regulate this area, which would help to reduce landfill waste, focus on recycling, incineration and reuse and thus reduce the risks of harmful impacts of waste on people and the environment. i believe that the proposal to amend the six pieces of waste legislation should be maintained, and i therefore supported the motion for a resolution tabled by the green/european free alliance group.
in writing. late last year, turkish security forces arrested a significant number of journalists without any legal grounds. the commission has also provided information on the activities of the turkish authorities in the field of the fight against corruption and organised crime. turkey is one of the countries where freedom of the media is severely restricted. this is evidenced by the fact that there are currently 70 journalists in turkish prisons. freedom of expression is the most basic human right, based on the rule of law and fundamental human rights. turkey, as a candidate for full membership of the european union, is obliged to take this into account. and not only that, but it must allow the media and its citizens the opportunity to have freedom of speech and of the press. unfortunately, the mass imprisonment of journalists in december 2014 shows the opposite. i see this as a new attack on freedom of the press, a crackdown on free speech and the right to dissent. for this reason, i support the resolution and agree with the demand for the immediate release of the imprisoned journalists. if there is any evidence that the accused journalists have indeed broken the law, let it be proved to them. freedom of the media, speech and diverse debate is one of the basic and fundamental principles of a democratic state, so turkey should act and also act as a sovereign and democratic state.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on freedom of expression in turkey. the recent arrests of journalists in turkey constitute an undemocratic interference with one of the fundamental human rights, namely the right to freedom of speech and expression. a government that does not uphold these rights is a government that is acting contrary to the fundamental principles of the european union. it is worrying that in addition to the violence against the representatives of the seventh power, the question of the independence and impartiality of the turkish judicial system is also raised by some in the turkish public. the european union, and more specifically its full member slovenia, also has major problems with the functioning of its judicial system and with ensuring fundamental human rights. only 25% of people trust the judiciary, and in the last ten years, courts have been implicated in 422 cases of violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms. the most famous example is the case of the political prisoner and president of the sds janez janša, when he was convicted by the court for accepting an uncertain promise of a reward on an uncertain day, in an uncertain communication method and in an uncertain place. he was also the main author of the 'crime against humanity' report, which was published in the official journal of the russian federation on 14 november 2014. the european union must help all countries, but especially its member states. it must take measures to ensure that the remnants of undemocratic systems are eliminated, that an independent judiciary is established and that respect for fundamental human rights and freedoms is guaranteed.
in writing. the events in paris shocked europe and the world. people are scared, they're expecting action. we must ensure security, but not at the expense of the security of our freedoms. our societies must remain open, free. the response to the threat of terrorism in europe must not be fear or disproportionate security measures, but the strengthening of values such as freedom, democracy and solidarity. europeans must stand shoulder to shoulder to fight all forms of extremism. european governments must not lose their sense of proportion. mass surveillance of the eu pnr data should not be introduced without adequate analysis. we want to know what the conditions for data retention will be, who will use it and in what cases. we are not prejudiced, but we need a guarantee of the protection of the data and privacy of europeans. eu member states are under-using existing instruments. we must make better use of them than the schengen information system, rather than introducing new ones. we need to strengthen cooperation between european judicial authorities, the exchange of information, we need intelligence services working together. socialists and democrats will not agree to change the schengen rules and restrict freedom of movement. we will also not allow restrictions on online freedom. we need to ensure respect for fundamental rights and the rule of law in europe, and to focus the debate on education, the de-radicalisation of young people in europe and the peaceful coexistence of different cultures and religions.
in writing. recent terrorist attacks in france have further heightened europeans' fear of attacks. the european union has a number of different mechanisms to combat terrorism. the question is whether these instruments are appropriate. for a moment, they seem to be a bit outdated, and therefore out of step with the modern approaches used by terrorists. however, not all means are allowed to protect democracy and the citizens of europe, especially those that interfere with human freedom in an excessive way. it is precisely because of the dilemma of what is proportionate and what is excessive that we need clear commitments and rules to be adopted by the european parliament. it is dangerous to start introducing measures that are no longer controllable and are illegal. because that's how we destroy our own values, not terrorism. in the long term, we must be able to address the causes of the rise of terrorism, starting with dialogue, analysis and appropriate planning. in any case, the fight against terrorism must also include the planning of immigration policy, social inclusion and appropriate information that can ensure preventive action. the eu has also been involved in a number of international security and counter-terrorism operations, including the establishment of a specialised security and counter-terrorism unit.
in writing. europe is still in shock after the terrorist attacks in paris. i wish these events could serve as a wake-up call to an ineffective european security policy. the security situation in the eu is further worsened by russian aggression in ukraine and the uncertainty brought about by the victory of extreme syriza in greece. the eu must respond to the deteriorating security situation immediately - and comprehensively! 1. first, strengthen their own security systems, ensure cooperation with other members (such as the exchange of relevant intelligence); at eu level, we need to strengthen joint institutions (such as eurojust and europol) and activities (such as external border control). we also need to round off the legal framework, including the pnr directive. the third. but above all, we need a political anti-terrorist pact! we're making it easy for the terrorists to get their hands on this because they know we're divided on this one. that's why i'm calling for unity!
let me just start by saying that i'm totally behind the idea of this investment fund. i also support the efforts of the european central bank, because it all leads to more jobs, more people employed, and that is a guarantee for satisfied europeans, a guarantee for peace in europe. i would like to see us following the timetable on this matter, but i would also ask both the commission and the council to work very intensively with the member states to avoid what has already been pointed out by mr van nistelrooij, namely that when this investment programme is completed we find that the money has gone only to the developed countries. the problem is that many countries are lagging behind in development also because they have not had these innovative approaches and approaches to activating private capital in development. so, pay attention, just as we have to adopt all the regulations in the european parliament and all the european institutions by the summer, so too must the states adopt this philosophy.
a very sensitive and strategically important part of europe is at war. for those of us who watched the nightly news reports from the balkan battlefields with horror more than 20 years ago, images of horror, destruction, and the suffering of innocent people are returning. a new territory, where people flee and seek protection elsewhere than at home. on both sides of the front in ukraine, fighters on both sides are dying, the civilians are bearing the brunt of the burden. we're going to have a new generation of traumatized children. is it not time that we approach wars that we have not been able to prevent, but have often supported and helped to create ourselves, with programs and means of peace-building, patient negotiations to end hostilities, effective measures to protect the civilian population. it's time we see war for what it is. he doesn't distinguish between victims and dead people, who are ours and different.
i would like to thank my colleague mr svoboda and the group which is proposing the establishment of a committee of experts to work with the monitoring committee to regulate this area. i want to include a member of the european parliament's culture committee. it is good that the european commission wants to improve the enforcement of intellectual property rights. but as my colleagues have already pointed out, i also want the different institutions within the european commission not to duplicate their tasks, their work. the ip group shall not perform the same functions as those already performed. the issue of intellectual property is important, inter alia, because it has a significant impact on the progress of the european union in the field of the digital single market, which can generate at least 220 000 new jobs in the coming years. with proper protection of intellectual property, we can reduce the import of illegal products. but we must be careful not to add to the bureaucratic burden on businesses. by protecting intellectual property rights, for example through patents, trademarks, we can ensure that companies, inventors and creators receive a fair return for their intellectual work. but we must not forget that everything, or as much as possible, that is created in society, that is created by humanity, must also be accessible, on the other hand, to people.
last year we celebrated the 20th anniversary of the european union's single market, based on the free movement of people, goods, capital and services. much has been done, much is yet to be done. as early as 2010, the european commission announced the removal of tax barriers for european union citizens in a cross-border environment. unfortunately, this area is far from settled today. for example, slovenia has a higher tax rate and fewer tax breaks than other member states. in slovenia, day migrants working in austria have to pay about two net monthly income tax payments per year. they also face other problems, for example in the area of child allowances, due to non-coordination at eu level. these workers are discriminated against. as labour mobility is hampered, economic growth in the european union is also hampered, and i ask the european commission again when it will take action or whether it can recommend to the member states to maintain the recovery of disproportionately high bonuses until the problem is resolved at eu level.
the transition of the member states of the european union to a circular economy is very important in achieving greater resource and raw material efficiency and if we want to achieve greater independence of the european union in the field of raw materials, it is necessary to promote a circular economy based on reuse and high-quality recycling of waste, rather than withdrawing this circular economy programme from the programme for the next period, as this commission has done. i hope that the commission's statement that it is not actually withdrawing this project, but is prepared to take a holistic approach, is not just an excuse for withdrawing this project definitively and not including the investment cycle in the programme, because a circular and circular economy also means the possibility of creating jobs. and it would be unacceptable to withdraw the programme for a europe without waste from the commission's programme, because waste is becoming more and more of a problem because of its disposal, rather than becoming a resource and also a means of recycling and renewable resources.
i welcome the decision of commissioner marianne thyssen, our former colleague, to release €1 billion under the european youth initiative this year. these funds will be of great help, benefiting more than half a million young people in 20 member states of the european union. my country, slovenia, is also among the countries that will receive these funds to promote youth employment, to create new jobs, to accelerate the transition from schooling to the labour market, and to education and training. but the european commission must be consistent in its monitoring of the use of the money to ensure that both mechanisms, the youth guarantee or the european youth initiative, achieve their objectives. if we increase, for example, the number of employees of the employment office, of course it will not be a deliberate expenditure, we will do double damage. that's why i want the funds to be spent both purposefully and efficiently. direct financial assistance will be a very welcome short-term measure. but in the long run, the only way to solve this problem is to modernize the education system and create a healthy economic environment.
the current situation for young people in the labour market is not the most rosy, as it does not give them a promising perspective and a calm view of the future. this is also illustrated by the eu-wide youth unemployment rate, which stood at 23.6% in 2013. it is clear that some member states do not have the resources to deal effectively with this problem, as otherwise the situation would improve. youth unemployment is not the only problem. many young people in employment have precarious working relationships that do not provide them with stability and sufficient guarantees to create normal living conditions. for this reason, they are always late in choosing to start a family. they simply doubt the future. the youth programme presented by the commission is therefore a step in the right direction. in doing so, it is necessary to verify whether the measures are also enforceable and in line with the real situation. for too long, we have referred to young people as the eu's biggest problem, and yet nothing remarkable has happened. and if we don't act now, trust in the eu institutions will continue to erode. it is justified to expect a programme of measures that are financially concrete and realistic, with a timeframe and indicators to measure their effectiveness. it's the only way we can move from words and promises to action.
financial participation is one way in which companies can encourage their employees to become more involved. at the same time, it is also one of the ways or instruments of ensuring the sustainable development of an undertaking. although this is a good opportunity for both employers and employees, there are still, of course, very big questions in individual countries about the implementation of the different schemes and the process is very slow. i have also dealt with the financial participation project in my own country in great detail as a representative of the employers' association. and the key question was whether financial participation should be mandatory or optional. at the same time, some other important questions were open. it was not enough to realize that property is not only positive and profitable, but that property is also a responsibility. and on the other hand, there was not enough understanding that, of course, profit sharing cannot be a substitute for pay. and thirdly, there was not enough understanding that this form of cooperation must also have a proper tax treatment, otherwise it is not interesting to anyone. so, because the process is very slow, i support these questions to the commission and i hope that we will not waste any more time and that we will introduce this form of financial participation in all countries as soon as possible.
i'm very supportive of employee participation in the ownership structure. i have experience as a business owner myself. also as mayor, who introduced employee ownership in a utility company that was a joint stock company. and with this ownership, we're encouraging a critical need of our time: trust in business. trust in the company and long-term thinking by both employees and management. there is too much apparent conflict in our society between the owners of capital and the employees. both want to be responsible, to be long-term oriented, and this employee participation is what it is. it is also very important that countries introduce appropriate tax incentives to support this participation and respond to the problems of today. it is also very important that these are the right answers, especially for smes, which will drive development in europe.
i myself join those who, of course, welcome and support proposals for the introduction of programmes and projects of participation and, of course, of legal frameworks for workers in profit. this is of course also linked to the system of corporate governance. but there are, of course, a number of issues here, both rights and obligations, and i think that whatever the future of this initiative, we need to be absolutely clear on these issues. in some countries these attempts have been more successful than in others, but i think the main problem that has emerged in all this is in particular the lack of clear definitions, on the one hand, of the obligations of employers and, on the other, of the obligations of employees, and, on the other hand, of the rights both in the management itself and in the receipt of profits. but clearly this is also a question of the socio-economic system, which at this moment in time, in my opinion, is not very inclined to this form, and this is of course a question for future discussion.
madam commissioner, welcome to the house with your team. i, of course, join my colleagues in supporting the commission's efforts to ensure greater safety in mobility itself, and i think that this directive is absolutely in the right direction. of course, increased mobility means nothing if that mobility is not safe. it is therefore necessary to provide all the appropriate mechanisms to ensure that security is also provided, and the exchange of data is already a major step forward, and i join those who are concerned that this data management is appropriate and, of course, also secure. i would add one more thing myself, and of course, besides talking about the infrastructure that is needed to further enhance this security, there is also the area of punishment and penalties. the fact is that penalties can only be effective and successful if they achieve their purpose. but penalties, especially in the case of traffic offences, only serve their purpose if they are actually enforced and recoverable. and i think that in this area an additional step is needed to make this directive also enforceable in practice.
in the eyes of thousands of palestinian refugees, especially those in syria and gaza, the help that unwra can provide because of our solidarity and generosity is the only difference between a miserable life and an even more uncertain future. let's not forget: 90 percent of the palestinian refugees in gaza and syria cannot survive without unwra's help. in responding to the call for support and funding for the regular budget and emergency operations in gaza and syria, we must be aware that neither this humanitarian organisation nor its supporters are responsible for the situation in which they find themselves time and again. it is the failure of the international community, including us in the european union, to do enough to bring about peace and to resolve the basic israeli-palestinian conflict. the problem will remain and grow with each new day and with each new conflict in the region that is right outside our door.
we've had a crisis in the middle east for decades. ten years ago we were talking only about the middle east crisis in gaza, now we are talking about the crisis in syria, we are talking about the crisis in north africa. and i myself strongly support the european union providing all the necessary resources for these unfortunate people. at the same time, i join the calls of those who speak of the need for a high-quality, long-term, stable political solution that will bring peace to this part of the world. because as events unfold, we can be sure that from day to day, from year to year, there will be more refugees, and ultimately more refugees wanting to come to europe, and these are our common problems. the european union must also make every effort to ensure that all those who share responsibility for this problem and who feel some responsibility for it contribute the funds promised at the cairo conference.
the current course of the cold and bloody war in ukraine, with the civilian casualties in mariupol, but also in donetsk, let us not forget, rarely offers us an opportunity to express words of approval and praise for the political and diplomatic activity that should bring the end of the war and the bloodshed closer. so today i'm going to take a minute to acknowledge german chancellor angela merkel and french president hollande and their diplomacy. all of us who value peace more than heroic advances and geostrategic advantages want the minsk conference to lead to a solution. the situation in ukraine has got out of hand and no one, not even the european union and its parliament, is blameless. today, the sincere desire for peace and a political solution is certainly more important and closer to the european interest than the thought of sending new weapons to an area where there are already too many. (the speaker agreed to accept the question raised by the blue card (rule 162 (8)).
blue-card answer. – i am pretty convinced that the german and french diplomacy, with mrs merkel and mr hollande, knows the significance of the negotiations and i have no reason to doubt it. they will protect the interests of europe.
the only effective counterterrorism action is one that stops more terrorists than it helps recruit. that is a lesson that we should learn from past events. but for such an action to take place, three prerequisites are needed: first, the terrorist measures must be effective. our citizens have the right to demand from their governments effective defense against extremist violence. and secondly, counterterrorism measures must be proportionate and must not unduly trample on our rights, our dignity and our fundamental freedoms, because these values are not in conflict with security. and third, all measures must be taken in as wide a circle of countries as possible. terrorism is not something we can fight in our own backyard, we need close, deep and as broad international cooperation as possible. for all these reasons, it is essential that the european union, in its policy of combating terrorism, also support the measures taken within the council of europe, an organisation which shares our fundamental values and legally binding standards. this does not in any way prevent us from taking action ourselves, which must of course be proportionate to our rights, because only together, including with the council of europe, can we be stronger.
in writing. i supported the proposed report because i believe it represents an important step towards improving safety on european roads and reducing fatalities. it is never pleasant to receive a police report in our inbox about a traffic offense that we may not even have been aware of having committed. it's a reminder to be more careful in the future. this is to ensure our safety and that of others. but we behave differently abroad, because the likelihood of receiving a report of a crime is less than in our own country. the full exchange of information between eu member states on road traffic offences is therefore essential to increase the level of road safety across europe. each country is allowed to apply the same rules to foreign nationals as to its own nationals. every driver will be aware that if he violates the traffic laws, he will be punished. an offense is an offense, no matter where it's committed. i would stress, however, that the member states must act proportionately, in accordance with the gravity of the offence, both in imposing penalties and in recovering them. at the same time, they must ensure that adequate transport infrastructure is in place, which has been shown to increase the level of road safety. i hope that slovenia, where i come from, will also recognize this.
in writing. — safe mobility for all european citizens is also a fundamental right. i agree and therefore support the resolution, which will allow the exchange of information happen under the right legal basis and terms, so that all european drivers share same rights and responsibilities when it comes to road safety. serious road offences should not be ignored, if we have a single market. therefore, the precondition for prosecuting serious traffic offences is the exchange of information.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague ayale sender, as i am convinced that road safety does not end at the borders of the member states, but is a european issue. only through cross-border cooperation will we be able to reduce road fatalities by 2020. 25,000 people die every year on europe's roads, which is unacceptable! road safety is something that concerns us all and we really need to address it. by sharing data between member states and quickly identifying offenders, we will contribute to improving road safety.
in writing. i welcome the report of the us senate committee as a positive step towards a public and critical confrontation of the shocking facts perpetrated by the cia, which demonstrates the willingness of the american democratic political system, with the help of members of both political parties in congress, to report openly to the public on the agency's agenda. after the tragic events in paris, i am convinced that counter-terrorism measures and respect for human rights are not contradictory but should complement and reinforce each other.
in writing. respect for human rights and the rule of law are essential elements in the successful prevention of terrorist policies. the european parliament has repeatedly condemned the cia's covert actions, which have been gross violations of human rights through the use of torture, abduction, secret detention, detention without a valid conviction and other inhumane methods of detention. despite the fact that these inhuman practices are justified as a means of combating and preventing terrorism, we cannot and must not tolerate such human rights violations. despite the fact that the cia is a secret service of the united states, this kind of treatment of detainees or suspects is unacceptable and i strongly condemn it. i also welcome the decision of the united states senate to release the cia's report on the detention and interrogation of prisoners. i also support the european parliament's decision to call on the member states to provide insight into whether the abuses were committed in their own countries, as is suspected. it is certainly necessary to prevent such adoptions in the future and to use all possible levers to ensure that this does not happen again. i support the resolution and voted for its adoption in the european parliament, as i consider such acceptance to be unacceptable and unacceptable.
in writing. what is the difference between democratic societies that respect human dignity and human rights and authoritarian and totalitarian societies that violate them? this includes, inter alia, using democratic legislative procedures, civilian oversight of law enforcement authorities and public scrutiny to identify weaknesses in individual policies and propose appropriate improvements. to detect violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms, even when they occur in the legitimate fight against terrorism, to eliminate them and thus to strengthen the foundations of a democratic society. in undemocratic societies, human rights violations are swept under the carpet, and there is no oversight of the repressive organs, since they, along with the courts, are merely an extension of the power. moreover, such communities have even been created, as in communist yugoslavia, with systematic violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms. i therefore welcome the report of the us senate on the unacceptable methods of the us security services as a positive step, because the us has spoken about them publicly and because it demonstrates the willingness of the us state to openly confront interrogation techniques that are contrary to us law and international agreements. the balanced motion for a resolution on this subject put forward by the epp group represents my view and i wanted to support it. unfortunately, we did not vote on it, as the joint resolution of other groups had already received support.
i myself did not vote against this resolution, mainly because i believe that the methods proposed in this resolution are not appropriate and in some way reinforce the so-called big brother over the rights of citizens. these are already sensitive issues, where the exchange of data can also imply a degree of surveillance and, above all, excessive interference with human rights. and that is why i think it is important that the european union should take measures in this area which will in some way be linked not only to the european union but also to the wider european area, to all 47 european countries which also fall within the so-called scope of the council of europe. and i think it is important that the european union supports and joins the emerging protocol to the european convention on the fight against terrorism, which is specifically concerned with radicalisation and recruitment for terrorist activities, and thereby also contributes to more effective means of combating terrorism.
in writing. i support the joint resolution of the five political groups, as i believe it strikes the right balance between measures to increase the security of europeans and the preservation of the fundamental rights and freedoms without which we can no longer imagine a united europe. the resolution stresses the need for greater information sharing between eu member states and between security institutions at eu level and calls for more consistent application of the rules on the control of organised crime. i see as a very important chapter of the resolution the chapter on tackling the causes of terrorism, which emphasises the promotion of social cohesion, dialogue and the widest possible inclusion of all social groups. we must confront the root problem, that is, the reasons for the increase in all kinds of extremism that have emerged in europe in recent years. of course, we must be more vigilant about the various extremist groups that threaten the security of europeans, but we must not take disproportionate measures to solve problems. i personally see that reducing the causes of various forms of extremism would be achieved primarily through good work, new jobs and good cooperation between people in europe. people, especially young people, must be given the opportunity to work and develop, and thus hope for a better future. this will also mean reducing the threat of terrorism. by eliminating the causes of extremism, we will also eliminate its consequences, namely, the horrendous acts of terrorism.
in writing. unfortunately, the unfortunate events in paris have put the fight against terrorism at the top of european priorities. the growing problem of terrorism is manifested, among other things, by radicalisation and the changing world order. in the short term, i agree that enhanced cooperation between partners and existing institutions such as europol, eurojust, frontex and cepol is crucial. on the other hand, i support the european commission's proposal on access to and use of passenger data. in the long term, i see it as very important to strengthen specific programmes that prevent religious radicalisation, not only at the domestic threshold, and to strengthen people's opportunities for personal development. there is a need to strengthen interfaith dialogue and awareness of genuine and moderate islam. in times of crisis, it is very important that the european union not diminish but rather strengthen its role in the development of democracy and peace in its neighbourhood and accelerate work on the european perspective of the western balkans, including the fight against arms trafficking.
in writing. i supported the joint resolution of the five political groups, as terrorism and violent extremism are among the greatest threats to our security and our freedoms. the european union is facing a constant and growing terrorist threat, as the recent events in paris have reminded us. i supported the resolution because it stresses that addressing the threats posed by terrorism in general requires a counter-terrorism strategy based on a multi-layered approach that addresses comprehensively the underlying drivers of radicalisation leading to violent extremism. i also supported the resolution because it strongly and categorically condemns all acts of terrorism, the promotion of terrorism, the glorification of those involved in terrorism and the promotion of extremist violent ideologies wherever they are carried out or advocated in the world.
in writing. at present, terrorism is the biggest destabilising factor in the eu, alongside the crisis in ukraine and the greek threat to the euro area. i therefore voted in favour of an important resolution, the pact on counter-terrorism measures, which was strongly supported by alde, s&d, ecr, efdd and some other members, on the initiative of the epp group. i am pleased that the resolution was adopted by a broad consensus, as it demonstrates parliament's united desire to protect european citizens. the epp negotiators, meps hohlmeier and gonzalez pons, did a great job and after years of delay we have reached an agreement on the exchange of air passenger data (without forgetting the maximum possible protection of privacy). the resolution also lists many other concrete measures: preventing the spread of radicalism in prisons, keeping records of jihadists, establishing a legal framework for the prosecution of so-called foreign fighters, controlling the financial flows that support terrorists, better monitoring of the schengen external borders, more frequent use of existing options for occasional checks at internal borders, while free movement within the eu remains our priority. we advocated better cooperation between national intelligence services, the establishment of a so-called jihadist blacklist, cooperation with internet service providers to prevent the spread of terrorist propaganda through social networks, and educational programmes that address the root causes of radicalisation.
in writing. the internet governance forum is important for the democratic and transparent functioning of the internet worldwide. global access to the internet has certainly changed the way we use it. it's important to recognize its power and its rapid growth. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european schools in the member states and the european schools in the union. nevertheless, it is necessary to ensure that no violation of fundamental human rights is tolerated online and that users are protected to the maximum extent possible. all the rights that people have offline have to be implemented there too. the fact is that the internet is a fundamental pillar of the digital single market, while also promoting growth, trade, democracy, cultural diversity, etc. there is a need to improve and enable access to the internet worldwide and also to enable the inclusion of all stakeholders involved in the delivery of ideas and improvements. at the same time, freedom of speech and the publication of information must be guaranteed, as the strong censorship of certain countries is certainly a cause for concern. considerable attention should continue to be paid to ensuring, in particular, the maximum protection of internet users and their personal data at all times. as the internet governance forum has been alert and constructive in all the necessary areas mentioned, i supported the extension of its mandate for a further five years.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the extension of the mandate of the internet governance forum, as it touches on many important aspects of the current debate on the future of the internet. our common goal is to ensure that the internet remains a global resource, not owned by a handful of political and intellectual elites, but available to all. we need to improve the balance and clearly support the credibility of the rules on internet governance. it is essential to renew this mandate, as it reflects the multilateral nature that internet governance must have, as it is based on the approach of different stakeholders: governments, the private sector and civil society.
in writing. the free exchange of information and freedom of expression are among the most important assets of modern and developed societies, and the internet, or information highway, plays a key role in ensuring these rights. i believe that this is why we need to continue to advocate for an open and independent internet as a shared global resource, while improving access to the internet worldwide. the internet governance forum has an important role to play in this regard, especially given its commitment to increase the involvement of all stakeholders. fundamental freedoms and human rights should not be negotiated and should be protected both online and offline. in this regard, it is regrettable that some countries are trying to circumvent the global connectivity of their citizens by censorship and other restrictions. this is unacceptable. it is therefore crucial to continue efforts to ensure the legal protection of net neutrality, which is a necessary condition for protecting freedom of information and expression, fostering growth and job creation. for all these reasons, i supported the resolution on the extension of the mandate of the internet governance forum, which also stresses, among other things, the economic and social importance of the right to privacy online and the importance of users' control over their personal data.
i supported the resolution on the labelling of meat in processed foods. traceability of meat is required by over 90 percent of consumers. after a series of scandals in the food industry, consumers' confidence in food is being tested. the adoption of this resolution is therefore a step in the right direction to increase confidence in quality food. the labelling of the origin of meat in food also allows the consumer to choose food produced in the immediate vicinity. local food, short food chains are the right direction for european agricultural policy, which must also be supported from an environmental point of view. we are also talking a lot today about the transatlantic trade and investment agreement, which is generating a lot of new mistrust. this is an additional reason why we must ensure that european consumers have a clear idea of the country of origin of the meat used in food. the european commission should make every effort to make regulation as cheap and simple as possible.
i myself supported this proposal, mainly because the arguments of consumers must prevail over the arguments of corporations, whose sole objective, of course, is to make a profit, regardless of any potential victims. it is important to know the origin of the meat in the processed food, and of course in the original, because health is an important value, but it is difficult to protect it today in a flood of products that we do not really know where they come from, and this information is also very important in the decisions of consumers about what they buy. in doing so, we must ensure that this labelling is understandable and therefore also consumer-friendly. corporations will not do this by themselves, of course, because it represents an additional cost for the providers of these goods, but we must not sacrifice health to protect only capital interests, and that is why i think this resolution is a step in the right direction. however, it is also necessary to ensure that it is implemented in practice in a satisfactory and logical manner.
in writing. — in this case, we have voted whether to ask the commission to follow up with a legislative proposal on the matter. therefore i voted in favour of the resolution in order to have the possibility to have the labelling of origin, avoiding the adoption of a short-sighted position that our consumers would not understand. i consider is of utmost importance to have transparent information about meat’s provenance, because it is what the consumers always ask for, placing the interests of consumers in the centre of decision-making. all the possible additional costs related to the mandatory country-of-origin-labelling for meat in processed foods are economically irrelevant especially when compared to the importance of ensuring clear and complete information enabling the consumers to make informed choices. for the same reasons, this position would not be detrimental to the smes since they already process this information.
in writing. i voted in favour of a resolution on the indication of the country of origin of meat ingredients in processed foods. the origin of meat used as an ingredient in processed foods such as lasagne should be indicated according to rules similar to those applicable to fresh beef. we all remember the horse meat scandal that rocked the european public two years ago. there is a need to protect consumers who, according to various studies, place the origin of food high on the priority list they consider when purchasing meat-based products. there is a need to strengthen consumer confidence in food safety, which has been shaken by numerous scandals and fraud in the past. we need transparency in the food industry.
in writing. the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly is the only multilateral parliamentary assembly established by the cotonou international agreement and represents a unique opportunity for open debate on difficult issues that are crucial to good cooperation with developing countries. the joint parliamentary assembly, increasingly parliamentary and political in nature, is the cornerstone of the acp-eu partnership on equal terms and provides the framework for a democratic and comprehensive dialogue between members of the european parliament and members of the acp parliaments on the implementation of the cotonou agreement, development cooperation under the european development fund and the implementation of economic partnership agreements. the role of the parliamentary assembly in the future is very important, as the need for enhanced joint parliamentary scrutiny is growing. its activities in the field of political, economic and social development in the acp states shall be directed towards promoting development objectives, ensuring respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and strengthening democracy based on the rule of law. as this motion for a resolution underlines the importance of the functioning of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly beyond the expiry of the cotonou agreement in 2020 and encourages the strengthening of its role, i voted in favour of it.
to join the european union, each country must have stable institutions that guarantee democracy, be governed by the rule of law, respect human rights and protect minorities. ˮ this is a quote from the copenhagen criteria, which slovenia had to meet in order to join the european union. but unfortunately, the picture is different in my country today. in slovenia, we will celebrate the 24th anniversary of independence, but we are still facing a failed transition, which is most evident in the state of the slovenian judiciary. it's very selective about who to go after. some are convicted on the basis of circumstantial evidence, others on the basis of a mountain of evidence that is too small. a lot of cases are outdated. in addition, the problem is one of quality, as evidenced by the data on the number of judgments overturned for human rights violations. the judicial system in slovenia is a major, if not the main, obstacle to a free and democratic society. i therefore call on the european union to monitor the situation in the slovenian judiciary with great attention.
in writing. in march 2014, the european commission adopted a new framework for addressing systemic risks to the rule of law, applicable to all 28 eu member states. before then, the eu had very little jurisdiction when member states violated human rights, the rule of law and democracy, unless they were in breach of european law. the new framework explicitly states that there are cases that fall outside the scope of eu law and therefore cannot be considered as breaches of obligations under the eu treaties, but they are of concern because they represent a systemic threat to the rule of law. the eu is thus empowered to act in areas that are otherwise the sole responsibility of the member states - in order to safeguard the rule of law. i regret that the european commission itself is not respecting its commitments. i asked her several questions about the legal proceedings against the president of the largest slovenian opposition party, janez janša, who was imprisoned on charges of accepting a reward in an unknown place at an unknown time and in an unknown manner. human rights and freedoms were not only violated by janezu janša, but this had great consequences for the entire slovenian state. president juncker also recently said that the eu is not just a common market, but also a community of values and the rule of law is one of the fundamental values!
mobility is a reality, centuries old. but the waves of migrants have never been so strong in europe. last year alone, there were a quarter of a million illegal crossings of the european union's borders. the common migration and asylum policy will be difficult to implement without the appropriate common institutions. that is why i support a stronger and more efficient frontex, as well as the european asylum office and other bodies. it is important to be aware of the causes of migratory pressures. unacceptable conditions in some countries that force people to leave their fate to human traffickers just to get to europe. when migration happens, it needs to be managed properly, managed in an integrated way. with political immigrants, you know the procedure, it's the geneva convention. the challenge for the european union is to tackle the problem of illegal economic migrants. so what we need in the european union is a new immigration policy, with clear criteria, which also takes into account the needs of the labour market and the social possibilities of european societies. we must not give potential immigrants false hope, we must not encourage them to migrate to a supposed paradise. the absorption potential of the european union is not large. another way to reduce illegal immigration is to promote the development of the countries from which the refugees come in various ways. i would add that we also need to improve the implementation of the common asylum policy and to oppose the abuse of asylum procedures.
the question asked by raising the blue card. mr president, in your speech you mentioned the problems we have in the european parliament and in the whole approach of the european union to the question of respect for human rights and our attitude towards countries where human rights are violated. it's not just happening in saudi arabia, it's happening in israel, it's happening in morocco, it's happening in other countries that we consider friendly countries and we even have different agreements with them. do you not think it is time that we in this parliament also spoke seriously about how much we care about human rights and how we intend to show this in our relations with those countries which violate them?
in writing. by voting to set up a special committee of the european parliament to deal with the implementation of eu state aid and tax legislation concerning tax rulings and other measures of a similar nature or effect, parliament has provided partial insight into the problem of tax avoidance. i myself supported the establishment of the committee, but i have some reservations. the decision is a good step forward, but it is far from enough. it seems to me that the establishment of this committee is a poor compromise between a sincere desire to have the background of tax affairs investigated in a quality and transparent way and an attempt to avoid any investigations at all. there is a possibility that the committee will evolve into a mere form, devoid of competence and merely superficial. the decision of the parliament's bureau not to include in this vote the item on the establishment of a committee of inquiry proposed by us greens is contrary to democratic standards. the luxleaks affair erupted violently and citizens expected concrete answers and explanations. that is why we in the green party have collected enough signatures to establish a committee of inquiry, which would have powers and is parliament's most powerful tool in cases where it wants to properly investigate the conduct in question.
in writing. — i support the resolution and i support the global campaign against is. it is of utmost importance to forge the necessary commitment among a coalition of partners to work together under a common, multilateral and long-term strategy to defeat is terror and on the other hand to enable more than 12 million people to return to normal life. the crisis needs fast resolution, as the situation risks turning into a major regional and international conflict. all islamic states should be united on the matter, finding the right solutions to contain the extermination and the economic appetite of a marginal group that misuses religious and ideological purposes to work for its own interest.
security is an important value in the european union. the european union is a global energy community, which is facing threats from the ukraine crisis and terrorism in eastern europe, but in the long term energy security is the most important issue and it is vital that europe finally establishes an energy union. i therefore support all those colleagues who have just stressed this safety aspect in ensuring energy independence. it's well known that over-dependence on russia is not good, and that putin will never waver in his efforts to achieve some political goal with this pressure. the european union therefore faces a major challenge: the internal and external diversification of energy sources. finally, the establishment of the energy union is also a good opportunity to establish a low-carbon society.
energy security is one of the key security issues, which is why this energy union package is very important. i am glad that we are getting it right after the juncker package, because a whole range of synergies needs to be created between the two packages. the energy union will certainly require us to be very active in the efficient use of energy, while at the same time identifying the challenging issues of how much renewable energy should be included in the energy mix, so that these renewable sources do not have too much of an impact on the deterioration of european competitiveness. one of the major problems facing europe, both the population and industry, is the high cost of energy. it will therefore be very necessary, commissioner, in your difficult task, that you really have the political wisdom, but also the influence, to answer the key questions, including the question of the future of nuclear energy, what will happen to the facilities when they are out of action, out of operation. i wish you much success in this endeavor.
mr. president, the last informal council was of the utmost importance. one of its indirect results is that the eurogroup yesterday approved the new greek government's reform programme. i hope that soon cyprus will make stronger commitments to continue with reforms, with fiscal consolidation and that greece will pay back the debts of the european citizens. why should we pay you for the pre-election promises of tsipras? greece has already received many concessions in recent years in exchange for reforms. it pays a smaller share of its gross domestic product to service its official debt than slovenia, italy or ireland. they're paying a lower effective interest rate, they've had their debt cut off a few times, i think the rebates were enough. the scare of brexit and the break-up of the euro group didn't work. unlike greece, the european union would have survived without catastrophic shocks. let us not forget that the eurogroup is strong today. since the start of the global crisis, it has not lost any member but gained four.
in writing. the european central bank shall draw up an annual report containing information on activities in the field of the european system of central banks and monetary union. economic activity in the member states remains weak, with euro area gdp growth in 2013 negative for the second consecutive year, and high unemployment in some euro area countries reaching levels that threaten their stability and diminish public and political support for the european project. one reason for the weak economic activity is financial fragmentation, as smes have much higher borrowing costs, especially in those countries facing difficult economic conditions. this leads to distortions in the single market, which slow down the recovery and increase disparities between countries. lack of capital and financing weakens the ability of enterprises to remain competitive and grow, and to maintain and create jobs. member states should address the causes of financial fragmentation, such as the different risk structures that make lending more expensive in some countries, and implement appropriate structural reforms to restore a favourable business environment.
in writing. the world bank recently warned euro area countries that they risk a recession or permanent stagnation that could bring a new debt crisis to the eu. quantitative easing is the last possible measure of the european central bank to help a stagnating economy, as even the extraordinary reduction in interest rates has failed to stimulate growth. there is no simple answer to the problems facing the european economy, and a combination of measures will be needed. the european central bank's exceptional measures will only be effective if countries consistently implement structural reforms, respect the rules of the stability and growth pact and if the eu succeeds in launching an investment cycle under the ambitious european fund for strategic investments.
so, every country and every nation has the choice of what kind of socio-economic and political system they want to live in, and that was certainly the case in venezuela. and since the late president chavez came to power 16 years ago, there have been 19 elections in venezuela, 18 of which were won by the bolivarian revolution. and now, of course, this decision of the system in which they have lived for so long faces a very serious test, indeed the worst threat. and, of course, we have to add that there is always a kind of conflict between different worlds, different values, and that is also reflected in the current situation. we are getting different information about the situation in venezuela, and i think it's important to point out that, of course, the people themselves decide in democratic elections what kind of system they want to live in, and that needs to be respected. but at the same time, of course, we must condemn violence, we must condemn human rights violations, and what i want to emphasize is this, too, we must be careful about information, about the credibility of individual information. and only one-sided, or inaccurate, information can also obscure the truth. the role of the european parliament is therefore also needed here, and support for those missions which can thus show what is really happening.
providing new jobs is the best answer to the plight of people today. the empty, unrealizable promises made by some politicians before elections, which are contrary to basic economic logic, only create false hopes and new disappointments. the juncker investment fund in the making, the more proactive monetary policy of the european central bank, the energy union package presented today are solutions that are tangible, concrete and give hope that a stronger investment cycle will finally happen in europe. if this does not happen, especially in countries whose development is lagging behind and which urgently need a new impetus, our citizens will be as disappointed in us as they will be in national politicians who, in the run-up to elections, promise impossible and unrealizable things. i therefore appeal to you, ladies and gentlemen, to the european commission and to the representation of the countries in the eu to adopt the necessary regulatory procedures as soon as possible so that the countries can enter the period of economic growth with quality projects as soon as possible.
we all know that competition policy is essential to economic recovery, especially today, when we are also faced with a number of trade agreements with other countries, and i would of course like to highlight the most important one: the trade agreement between the european union and the united states. competition policy this policy will best protect our consumers and thereby also provide a fair environment for all small businesses, which are, as we always say, the engine of the european economy. i am pleased that the commission is regularly monitoring developments in the area of this policy and that this policy is not only an end in itself but also a report with concrete results and consequences.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr lamassoure, who has once again done an important job for us. i support his argument that investment is not keeping pace with the improving economic indicators in the eu and that action is therefore needed. the legislative resolution on long-term investment funds will further strengthen the much-needed so-called juncker plan, thus increasing the resources for long-term investment in the european economy. it is good that these funds will direct funds towards long-term projects, with a focus on sectors that are important in the long term, such as infrastructure. in fact, infrastructure development is of great importance for the union as a whole and especially for countries such as slovenia, which are not sufficiently developed in terms of infrastructure and are facing difficulties in the reconstruction of logistics centres, railways, roads and the like. in short, with long-term investment funds, we are building a european capital union and strengthening the european economy, which will no longer depend solely on the ability of banks.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is an instrument through which the european union provides additional support to workers who have been affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade flows and helps them to reintegrate into the labour market. the adoption of the egf regulation reintroduced the criterion for mobilising the fund in response to the crisis, increased the union's financial contribution to 60% of the total estimated cost of the proposed measures, increased the range of beneficiaries by including the self-employed and young people and also financed the start-up incentives. the application for a financial contribution submitted by poland to assist zaklady chemiczne zachem, in which 615 redundant workers were made redundant in 2013 as a result of the cessation of production and the reorganisation of the company, meets the eligibility criteria for the aid. the redundancies, which were linked to a decrease in the union market share in the chemical industry, had a negative impact on the situation in the kujawsko-pomorskie region, where unemployment is the highest in the country. as the package of co-financed services is tailored to the 50 most deprived persons and is intended to complement a number of existing measures for surplus workers and contains two important measures: employment incentives and intervention work, i supported the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ 615 redundancies were made in the polish company zaklady chemiczne zachem and in two suppliers linked to the cessation of production and the reorganisation of zachem. i supported the report on the use of the egf, which provides additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade flows and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. the union's share of the world chemicals market decreased sharply between 1992 and 2012, from 35,2% in 1992 to 17,8% in 2012, and chemical production has shifted in recent years to asia, in particular china. i would like to emphasise that i welcome the fact that the egf measures are complemented by measures financed by the structural funds.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in the case of zaklady chemiczne zachem, a polish company, because it was the largest employer in its region and because as much as 60% of all new unemployment claims from 31 march to 31 july 2013 were due to redundancies in zachem and two of its suppliers. this has had a negative impact on the situation in the kujawsko-pomorskie region, where unemployment, despite economic growth, stood at 17,4% in july 2013, the highest in poland. zachem was mainly engaged in the production of chemical products; however, between 1992 and 2012, the eu's share in this sector compared to the rest of the world fell drastically (from 35,2% to 17,8%) due to the relocation of the industry to asia, mainly china. it is good that the egf measures are complementary to a number of programmes co-financed by the european social fund.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is an instrument through which the union provides additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns and helps them to reintegrate into the labour market. the application for a financial contribution submitted by germany to assist aleo solar ag, which made 657 redundancies in 2014, meets the eligibility criteria. the redundancies in this company were the result of major structural changes in world trade flows due to globalisation, as between 2005 and 2011 the market share of china increased from 11% to 45% and the market share of germany decreased from 64% to 21%. the commission also found that the average price of solar modules in the union market was lower than the average price of solar modules in the union market. the redundancies are likely to have a major negative impact in the prenzlau/brandenburg region, where the unemployment rate is the highest in germany and per capita income is well below the national average. however, since it is possible that the german authorities will use all the funds received from this fund as training compensation amounting to 60% of the previous net income, which could have the characteristics of a passive social protection measure, i abstained from voting.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund to provide a financial contribution for redundancies in the german company aleo solar. in the past few years, many solar companies in germany have become insolvent and have therefore abandoned their solar business, closed all or part of their production or sold to chinese investors. i believe that we must help all member states, and especially those people who have lost their jobs as a result of changes in world trade patterns, as quickly and as efficiently as possible to find new jobs. in line with the european principle of solidarity, we will help the 476 workers made redundant to get out of the difficult situation they have found themselves in as quickly as possible.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in the case of the german company aleo solar ag, as redundancies in this company have had a negative impact on the prenzlau/brandenburg region, where per capita income is well below the national average and the unemployment rate is the highest in germany at 15,5% and 16,4%, respectively. the redundancies at aleo solar ag are linked to major structural changes in world trade flows due to globalisation in particular, to china's capacity in this sector, which exceeds both the needs of chinese consumers and the world market. between 2005 and 2011, china's market share in the pc, electronic and optical products sector increased from 11% to 45%, while germany's market share decreased from 64% to 21% during this period. the prices of solar modules in 2011 fell by 40% compared to 2010 below aleo solar ag's production costs. in 2013, the eu approved additional duties for chinese-origin solar modules and a minimum price, which is still below the production costs of the german producers.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is an instrument through which the european union provides additional support to workers who have been affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade flows and helps them to reintegrate into the labour market. the application for a financial contribution submitted by belgium to assist hainaut steel, which made 708 redundancies in 2013, meets the eligibility criteria. the redundancies in this company were the result of major structural changes in world trade flows due to globalisation, as the steel production sector suffered serious economic disruptions due to the decline in demand for steel in the automotive and construction industries (production of crude steel in the eu-27 decreased by 14,1% between 2006 and 2011, while at world level it increased by 21,6%, which led to a decrease in the union market share). the redundancies are likely to have a major negative impact in the hainaut region, where employment is highly dependent on traditional heavy industry and the unemployment rate is above the national average. as the package of co-financed services covers three important areas: job search assistance, training and retraining, and the promotion of entrepreneurship, i supported the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund for the redundancies of 708 workers in two companies linked to the closure of duferco and the reduction of the number of employees in nlmk in the metal production. the number of overcapacity workers in duferco and nlmk is linked to the major structural changes in world trade flows due to globalisation, as the steel production sector has experienced serious economic disruption, in particular the rapid decline in the eu market share; the economic crisis and the relative increase in production costs have worsened world trade flows, in addition to other factors such as the decline in demand for steel in the automotive and construction industries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in the event of the closure of the belgian company duferco and the redundancies in the belgian company nlmkd, as the production of crude steel has been affected by serious economic disruptions linked to structural changes in world trade flows and globalisation. in the eu-27, steel production is expected to decrease from 206,9 million tonnes to 177,7 million tonnes between 2006 and 2011. the global steel trade deteriorated due to the economic crisis, the relative increase in production costs and the decline in demand for steel in the automotive and construction industries. the commission notes that the belgian authorities have not provided any evidence that the measures in question were necessary to restore the viability of the company. unemployment among young people aged 18-25 in this former coal and steel area, where employment is heavily dependent on traditional heavy industry and the public sector, has reached 39%. an additional problem is the low qualification of jobseekers, with more than half of them not having completed upper secondary education.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is an instrument through which the european union provides additional support to workers who have been affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade flows and helps them to reintegrate into the labour market. it is important that this assistance to overworked people is dynamic and available in the shortest possible time and in the most efficient way possible. the application for a financial contribution submitted by belgium to assist arcelormittal liege sa, which made 1285 redundancies in 2014, meets the eligibility criteria. the redundancies in this company were due to the major structural changes in world trade flows due to globalisation, as steel production decreased by 20,9% between 2007 and 2013 while worldwide it increased by 22,3%, and also due to the decrease in demand for steel in the automotive and construction industries. the redundancies are likely to have a major negative impact on the liège region, which is highly dependent on the metalworking industry. as the package of co-financed services covers three important areas: over-employment, training and retraining, and the promotion of entrepreneurship, i supported the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report because it provides for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund after the dismissal of 1285 redundant workers at the belgian company arcelormittal liège s.a. due to the worsening economic disruption and the rapid decline in the union's market share. the decrease in the production volume of the union industry was mainly due to the increase in the production volume of the union industry. the eu's share in steel production thus decreased from 16% of world production in 2007 to 10% in 2013, which is significantly higher than in the united states and russia, while asia's market share increased strongly over the same period. i also supported the report because the package covers three main areas: over-employment, training and retraining, and the promotion of entrepreneurship.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in the case of arcelormittal liège sa, as redundancies in this company will have very negative consequences for the whole region. the share of local employment of arcelormittal was 78,9% for the metal sector and 14,3% for the whole manufacturing sector. the liege region has traditionally been highly dependent on the metalworking industry, which has decreased in recent years from 40 companies (6193 jobs) in 2007 to 35 companies (4187 jobs) in 2012. employment in this sector decreased by 32%. this is the result of major structural changes in global trade flows, including reduced demand for steel in the automotive and construction sectors due to the economic crisis and due to the relative increase in production costs (prices of materials, energy, environmental constraints, etc.). the steel production in the eu-27 therefore decreased from 210,1 million tonnes to 166,2 million tonnes between 2007 and 2013. the commission established the profitability of the sampled union producers by expressing the pre-tax net profit of the sales of the like product to unrelated customers in the union as a percentage of the turnover of those sales.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is an instrument through which the european union provides additional support to workers who have been affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade flows and helps them to reintegrate into the labour market. the adoption of the egf regulation reintroduced the criterion for mobilising the fund in response to the crisis, increased the union's financial contribution to 60% of the total estimated cost of the proposed measures, increased the range of beneficiaries by including the self-employed and young people and also financed the start-up incentives. the application for a financial contribution submitted by belgium to assist caterpillar belgium s.a, which in 2014 made redundancies of 1030 workers due to a decrease in demand in europe, meets the eligibility criteria. the redundancies in this company are likely to have a major negative impact on the charleroi region, which is facing a very difficult labour market situation as it is heavily dependent on traditional industrial employment. as the package of co-financed services covers three important areas: over-employment, training and retraining, and the promotion of entrepreneurship, i supported the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report providing for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund after the redundancy of 1030 workers at caterpillar belgium s.a., which operates in the industrial sector of the production of other machinery and equipment, was reduced due to lower demand in europe. the redundancies at caterpillar belgium sa are linked to major structural changes in world trade flows due to globalisation, as manufacturing in asia and importing to europe has become cheaper than manufacturing in europe. indeed, the demand for construction machinery has decreased due to the reduction of private and public investments in infrastructure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in the case of caterpillar belgium, as the redundancies in the hainaut region were the result of the crisis in the construction and mining sectors, where caterpillar's most important customers come from. on the one hand, the european market has shrunk, and on the other hand, the production and imports of steel and metal products from asia have become cheaper than production in europe. the decline in public and private investment in infrastructure has affected demand for construction machinery and steel and metal products. 18% of the redundant workers are particularly at risk, as they are aged 55-64, many have no upper secondary education and over 40% have been unemployed for more than 2 years, which constitutes long-term unemployment. it is good that the european parliament's report also emphasises the need to improve the employability of workers through further education and training and the recognition of skills acquired during working life.
in writing. ‒ road safety is very important and necessary and the eu must work to improve it all the time. it is therefore important that all fleet operators are well equipped and that legislation is clear about what this equipment represents and covers. there is certainly a need to improve the difficult conditions and safety of truck drivers and thus the safety of citizens and all road users in the european union. the presence of mega trucks throughout the union is not welcome and represents both a danger to road users and a huge burden on the vehicle fleet. so it's good that the ban on mega trucks driving across eu borders has not changed and remains. nevertheless, positive changes are welcome, including new rules on the weight and dimensions of lorries. although far from ideal, this agreement represents a good improvement on the original proposal, especially when environmental and safety aspects are taken into account. safe roads must be provided for all road users. in addition, it would be useful to explore the possibility of reducing traffic in the future, especially in the area of heavy vehicles such as lorries. i consider these aspects to be very important in the road transport regime and have therefore supported the amendment of the law in question in the european context.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending the directive relating to the setting of maximum authorised dimensions and maximum authorised weights for certain road vehicles in the community in national and international traffic. with 70% of the european union's transport being carried by road, it is all the more important to ensure that greenhouse gas emissions, in particular carbon dioxide (co2) emissions, are reduced, road safety is improved, the relevant legislation is adapted to technological developments and changing market needs, and intermodal transport is made possible, while ensuring undistorted competition and the protection of road infrastructure. the recommendation is a concrete example of the application of the principle of subsidiarity in the european union, since it is the responsibility of the member states to allow longer lorries on the roads.
in writing. ‒ i support the opening of trilogue negotiations to speed up the process of establishing the eu long—term investment funds (eltifs). after the banking union, which will balance the asymmetries of lending conditions across the euro area and bring stability to the banking system, the next logical step was to start consolidating the capital union. this will mean being able to offer a stable flow of investment capital for long—term growth projects, helping to achieve sustainable growth prospects for the eu. eltifs are definitely the first fundamental block, which will allow the still underdeveloped european equity financing model to be built and consolidated in order to move away from the exclusive lending model. i will keep supporting all proposals in this direction, while keeping an eye on consumer protection and fair competition.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the creation and adoption of the european long-term investment fund, as it encourages long-term investments where more patience and time are needed to bring about positive changes and improvements. it is an important instrument for growth and development. and the fact that long-term investment has been declining since the 1980s is worrying, as it represents an important source of income for small and medium-sized enterprises, the pillars of the european economy. in addition, smes will have new opportunities to finance, in particular, innovation, development and research, which are crucial for progress and competitiveness in the global economy. europe needs new competitive growth and one of the ways to achieve this is through long-term investment funds. moreover, the encouragement of private capital for long-term investment reduces the economy's reliance on bank loans, which is still a problem in these difficult financial times. i supported the positive aspects of the european commission's proposal and voted in favour of its adoption.
in writing. ‒ i supported the additional report by mr lamassour on the european long-term investment funds. the introduction of european long-term investment funds is the first concrete step in changing investment in the eu, as we currently have no european instrument to provide long-term investment. these funds require the investor to commit to investing for a certain period of time and to be reimbursed after a certain period of time. the rules governing the managers of these funds are also strictly laid down, while the managers of the funds will also be subject to strict supervision. the eu must develop instruments that provide funds for long-term investment. long-term investments require the efforts of all relevant actors, or stakeholders, from the legislator to the user. for all these reasons, i supported the additional report on the european long-term investment funds.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on long-term investment funds by rapporteur alain lamassoure, as long-term funds will further strengthen the juncker plan for investment, increase the resources for long-term investment in the european economy, strengthen the european capital union and strengthen the european economy, which will no longer depend solely on the investment capacity of banks. the funds should be directed to projects of long-term significance, such as infrastructure, as this is of great importance for the union as a whole and in particular for countries such as slovenia, which are not sufficiently developed in terms of infrastructure and are facing difficulties in the reconstruction of logistics centres, railways, roads, etc.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has adopted new rules on interchange fees for card payment transactions. the new directive focuses on reducing the existing excessive transactions that consumers pay to banks. the amendment adopted will be particularly welcome for small and medium-sized enterprises and, of course, for all consumers. this vote and the adoption of amendments by parliament has shown how eu legislation can have a positive impact on the lives of european union citizens. the lack of competition in the sector of payment card payment transactions has led to excessive costs for users in europe. this change will have a direct impact on the reduction of fees by eur 6 billion and thus ensure healthy competition between visa and mastercard. in particular, given that fees are a direct burden for consumers, this will further reduce their costs when paying for products and services online. however, the final agreement still contains some shortcomings, mainly due to the very intense and persistent lobbying of banks and credit companies. these shortcomings are certainly not firmly entrenched anywhere and will be addressed over time for the benefit of consumers and eu citizens. for the reasons stated above, i supported and voted in favour of the new rules on interchange fees for card payment transactions.
in writing. ‒ i supported the additional report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on interchange fees for card payment transactions, as fragmentation of the internal market is detrimental to competitiveness, growth and job creation in the union. improving the functioning of the internal market requires removing direct and indirect obstacles to its proper functioning and establishing an integrated electronic payments market without differentiating between national and cross-border payments. i also agree that secure, efficient, competitive and innovative electronic payments are key to allowing consumers, traders and businesses to take full advantage of the internal market, which is increasingly important in an environment that is increasingly geared towards e-commerce.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on interchange fees for card payment transactions, as the current diversity of interchange fee rates is fragmenting the market (which is estimated to cost around eur 130 billion a year, or more than 1% of eu gdp), preventing new pan-european players from entering the market, hindering innovation and damaging the economy. the integration of the payment card market in the eu is far from complete, even though payment cards are the most common electronic payment instrument for retail purchases, and it is therefore necessary to remove obstacles to the efficient functioning of the card market, including card payments and online and mobile payments based on cards. e-commerce is becoming increasingly important and it is essential to ensure the security, efficiency, competitiveness and innovation of electronic payments in order to enable consumers, traders and businesses to reap the full benefits of the internal market. this regulation will benefit businesses and consumers, strengthen consumer protection and bring more transparency to the online payments sector.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is an instrument through which the european union provides additional support to workers who have been affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade flows and helps them to reintegrate into the labour market. the application for a financial contribution submitted by belgium to assist saint-gobain sekurit, which made redundancies of 257 workers in 2013, does not fulfil certain eligibility criteria but falls within the category of exceptional circumstances which allows the mobilisation of egf resources. the redundancy in this company was due to the closure of a production facility producing safety glass for the automotive industry, linked to the decrease in production of safety glass in the union. the redundancies are likely to have a major negative impact on the region concerned, which is characterised by high structural unemployment and low levels of qualifications and skills. dismissed workers have limited employment opportunities, as they compete with many other workers with similar qualifications and experience. as the package of co-financed services covers three important areas: job search assistance, training and retraining, and the promotion of entrepreneurship, i supported the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund, which provides financial assistance for 257 redundant workers due to the closure of the saint-gobain sekurit (sgs) group's production plant, which produced safety glass for the automotive industry. the redundancies were due to a decrease in the production of automotive safety glass in the union. in the report, i welcome the call to member states and all the institutions involved to do all that is necessary to improve the procedural and budgetary arrangements in order to speed up the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund. i also support the report because tailor-made services consist of a number of measures designed to encourage workers to return to the labour market and to assist them in administrative procedures, most of which are intended to support all redundant workers.
in writing. - i did not vote on the tarabelle report because of my absence. if i were there, i would vote against it for ethical, legal and formal reasons. i am for equality of the sexes and for the inviolability of human dignity. i have a problem when political or ideological interests use or abuse this noble purpose for goals that have no real connection with gender equality. so i'm for gender equality, not for what this vote is interpreted as a right to abortion. i can see abortion as a legal emergency, but i can't see it as a cure. the judgment of the court of justice of the european union of 18 october 2011 in the brüstle case also held that it is a question of the human person and his dignity from the moment of conception onwards. so it's his rights, too. first of all, the right to dignity and life, which is enshrined at the very beginning of the eu charter of fundamental rights and which is part of the lisbon treaty, is part of the ec legal order. i regret that we are so divided and polarized on such an important issue. and that we have given the impression to the european public that abortion is a gender equality issue. an ethically deficient attitude to life is one of the key challenges of the present-day eu. i don't want any of the elected officials to score political points by a superficial attitude to the lives of the wounded.
in writing. ‒ i support the 2013 progress report on the achievement of equality between women and men in the european union, as equality between women and men is a fundamental right recognised since the treaty of rome in 1957. unfortunately, progress towards gender equality is still too slow and inequalities between men and women still exist, even though the european union has adopted numerous texts to ensure equal opportunities and equal treatment for men and women and to combat all forms of discrimination on grounds of sex. it is important to take into account the different and intertwined forms of discrimination experienced by many women and girls in europe, as well as the fact that the situation has unfortunately worsened in recent years. more women than men live in poverty and on the margins of society, particularly older women, whose pensions are on average 39% lower than men's, and single mothers, who are more likely than men to work part-time or fixed-term jobs for family reasons. and insecure employment is the main reason for their poverty. women are also disproportionately represented in senior and managerial positions, even though almost 60% of graduates in the eu are women. and the proportion of women in science and engineering is less than 33%.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from the final vote on the proposal for a report by marc tarabelle on the progress made towards equality between women and men in the european union in 2013. i regret that i was unable to support the text, because it is very good in its work on equal rights for women and men, but it contains parts that are not in any way within the eu's competence, let alone in this report. the report advocates that the eu and the member states take into account the issues of equal rights and opportunities for women and men in the implementation of their activities and in budgetary procedures. it highlights the issue of poverty among women, especially among the elderly and single mothers, the problem of victims of sexist violence and those otherwise stigmatised. she is a strong advocate for quality employment for women and equal opportunities for women in the labour market. i support all these aspects of the report. i voted against article 45 of the report and against paragraph a, mainly because they speak of 'easy' access to abortion and place it among the fundamental rights. because i believe that abortion cannot be included in the human rights or freedoms, because every life must be protected from conception to death, and because i believe that abortion is a life tragedy for every mother who has an abortion.
in writing. ‒ unfortunately, competition does not operate in the same satisfactory way in all eu member states. some sectors within the single market still share national borders and artificial barriers. concerns are raised by worrying practices such as social dumping or the misuse of structural funds. competition policy is in itself a means of safeguarding european democracy by preventing excessive concentration of economic and financial power in the hands of a minority. moreover, it is based on a level playing field in all sectors, and at the same time it is the foundation of the european social market economy and an essential tool for ensuring the proper functioning of a dynamic, efficient, sustainable and innovative eu internal market. in ensuring a level playing field for businesses in the internal market, it is also necessary to combat social dumping and to implement european social and environmental legislation. appropriate competitiveness and tax measures are needed to support european industrial groups and smes to succeed in a globalised world. the european commission must take into account the needs of citizens, consumers and smes and focus its decision-making on their problems, so that the competition policies it proposes add value for european citizens. for the reasons stated above, i supported the eu competition policy report.
in writing. ‒ i supported the eu's annual competition policy report, because independent competition in the market is what will ensure growth, jobs, investment and global competitiveness. the fragmentation of the eu internal market is very high and this undermines competition in the market. monopolies are being created, and we're losing $180 billion to $230 billion a year. the question must be whether competitiveness at eu level is strong enough to allow smes to compete on an equal footing. i also supported the annual report on eu competition policy because it represents another step forward in protecting jobs.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the annual report 2013 of the european central bank because i support the ecb's efforts to ease pressure on euro area financial markets and regain investor confidence in the single currency in these very challenging circumstances. i support the ecb's move to preserve the euro, which has been positively reflected in the overall reduction in long-term domestic yields, particularly in the most indebted euro area countries, to their lowest level since the start of the crisis. i also supported the report on the ecb's annual report 2013 because i agree with president draghi that there is room for manoeuvre to develop more growth-friendly fiscal policies and to reduce the tax burden without affecting the budget.
last year, i participated for the first time in the conciliation procedure for the adoption of the european budget for 2015. it was a tense time and i learned a lot, including that an agreement could have been reached in a different, less dramatic way if the negotiating platform, in particular the council, had taken due account of the european commitments it had accepted. i am firmly against the debate on the european budget being used to score national points. i really wish this year was different. it is important to remember that the budget of the european union plays an important role in promoting competitiveness and economic, social and territorial cohesion in the european union, given its investment nature and, consequently, an important role in addressing and reducing the uncertainty, mistrust and discontent of european union citizens. i therefore support the proposed guidelines for the european budget for 2016.
this is a theme that will certainly be relevant for years to come. the fact is that fraud is also involved in the use and use of european funds, and the commission does not receive fewer fraud reports each year, but more, and not only is the european union programme evolving, but also the behaviour and knowledge of how to defraud european union funds. and the fact is, statistics alone will not be enough to fight fraud. the commission's proposal is to be based on a more transparent approach, on preventive measures, on simplification of regulations and, of course, on the sound application and preparation of laws which should help rather than hinder the use of funds. but i just want to say a few words about the da's office. i think we should not entertain the illusion that it will be some sort of superman who will save europe from fraud and corruption. and that is why we must think carefully before we take this step, because the worst thing we can do is to set up another body, another office, which will of course have no clear powers and, above all, very little and vague help, so i appeal to caution here.
montenegro is currently the fastest moving towards the european union. it is the only country in the region to have opened 16 chapters in its negotiations with the eu, including chapter 24 on the rule of law. it has also temporarily closed two, including education and culture. when i was minister of education, i had the opportunity to work with the montenegrin school authorities, who were following modern trends at the time. it is right that the report by mr tannock, drawn up by the european parliament, highlights the positive aspects of montenegro's rapprochement with the european union. it is also important to be aware of the bad qualities or shortcomings of this process. above all, montenegro will have to do more for the freedom of the media landscape. last year, it was ranked 114th out of 180 countries in the world press freedom index. the judicial system should be more effective in fighting corruption and organised crime. the reforms adopted need to be translated into progress in practice. and thirdly, she will have to pay more attention to the revival of parliamentary work. without that, there is no democracy. i believe that pro-european and pro-democratic thinking and practice will prevail in montenegro and that the country will successfully complete the process of integration into the european union. i also wish them much success in their efforts to join nato, which will certainly have a positive impact on the security situation and stability in the region. i am particularly pleased that security and foreign policy are already aligned with the european union.
the excellent progress report on montenegro actually balances all those aspects we have already pointed out. from issues of corruption, crime, the judiciary, freedom of the press, freedom of speech, minority rights, gender equality, foreign policy... and all these chapters that montenegro has opened and many of them have already closed, indicate that it is also very fast approaching integration and convergence with the european union. but there are a few more chapters to note. and one of those chapters is also which is not explicitly written, but it's obvious is the relationship to the environment. and that is the attitude towards the environment, towards renewable energy sources, and i think that's going to be one of the key things for the future of montenegro, especially because we know that the economic situation is not bright at the moment and that there is a lot of unemployment, especially among young people. and i think that this very attitude towards the environment and of course the protection of those pearls that montenegro has, can guarantee it in the long run also greater employment and reduction of the economic crisis.
on behalf of the alde group. you have made it easier for me to speak in these two minutes as rapporteur, with very substantive and very, very encouraging views, positive views on macedonia's progress towards the european union. the resolution we are debating today is intended to confirm the continuation of the constructive policy of enlargement of the european union to the western balkans. from the european perspective of the remaining countries of the former yugoslavia, we want to contribute to the lasting stabilisation of the area where, before the current war in ukraine, the last armed conflict in europe raged with tragic consequences. i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs and all the colleagues who have proposed amendments and contributed to a politically balanced resolution. the resolution, which is based on the principle that each candidate country will be judged on its merits and achievements, supports the following: the opening of negotiations for membership of the european union, the removal of the deadlock in the council and the resolution of bilateral issues, such as the name of the country, separately from the negotiations but in time before the conclusion of the accession negotiations. the long-standing, regrettable deadlock in the process of rapprochement with the union is one of the reasons for the current severe crisis of confidence between the political forces in macedonia. this crisis also leads to the obstruction of the national parliament and serious accusations of abuses, violations of laws and the constitution, human rights and media freedom. the eu has also been active in the fight against corruption and organised crime, and has been active in the fight against organised crime. ladies and gentlemen, i call on you to support this resolution.
i regret that i can only be critical of the current political situation in macedonia. the footage released some time ago by the opposition leader of the widespread illegal wiretapping of various representatives of state institutions is, to put it mildly, very worrying. they testify to the principles of democracy, the morality of the ruling forces and raise the question of the legitimacy of the current government. i regret the fact that macedonia has been in the waiting room for a very long time to start negotiations. but the current situation in the country , which we highlight in the resolution , shows that change is needed. corruption must be eradicated, conditions for media freedom must be improved and a higher level of political culture and a culture of dialogue must be achieved in general. unfortunately, macedonia has lost too much time, also because of the long-running dispute over the name. it is high time that action was taken and that a common political will was shown to bring about change. otherwise, there is a danger that citizens will turn against nationalist rhetoric.
blue-card question.– i would just like to answer some colleagues who asked why was i using the word makedonija, that this is for the same reason as mr plenković did, which is that this is the name by which my country has recognised macedonia. i would like to ask my colleague, do you not think that we should stop talking about history and we should speak about the future? is it not true that a prosperous stable macedonia is in the interest of its neighbours, both greece and bulgaria, and that you should show some solidarity to macedonia in this moment?
on behalf of the s&d group. i am extremely happy whenever we have a document on the table that has a positive message and inspires optimism. and thank you to the reporter, david. it is the same today. i congratulate serbia on the progress it has made, welcome the important steps that have already been taken, and remain optimistic that the country will continue to make progress in the future. at the same time, i am concerned about the strain and pressure that has been felt recently on issues that actually concern serbia's bilateral relations with its neighbours. i am convinced that calling on serbia to reconsider its war crimes law is not in any way part of this report. universal jurisdiction in the field of war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide is in line with international jurisprudence. several countries of the european union have similar arrangements. that is also the commission's view. moreover, existing legislation also allows for greater efficiency and prosecution of those who, in the absence of such legislation, could avoid punishment for crimes committed. the european parliament must not be used as a training ground for the resolution or promotion of domestic political issues. serbia bears a great responsibility on its shoulders. first, in the western balkans region, it has acted as a sort of catalyst for better relations and enhanced regional cooperation. secondly, serbia faces an important period in which it will have to gradually resolve relations with kosovo and fully implement the agreement on the normalisation of relations between belgrade and pristina. in this light, i welcome the recent resumption of dialogue, including the adoption of the justice agreement, which is essential for progress. i believe that the most important thing at this moment is to create the conditions that will enable all the people of kosovo to have the best possible life. i join the call for serbia to open negotiations with the union as soon as possible and to open chapters 23 and 24. i shall be making a hasty visit to belgrade next week and my message will be clear: i am convinced that negotiations must begin as soon as possible. in doing so, parliament will continue to monitor developments in serbia, in particular as regards the normalisation of relations with kosovo, the rule of law and a free media. (the president replied to the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the principle of proportionality. thank you very much, colleague, for the question, i was expecting it. we are talking about the law on war crimes in serbia and we have made very clear to the european commission and other institutions that the condition for opening chapter 23 is that serbia must change the law, and this is a very dangerous precedent. a similar law exists in several member states of the european union. i can also say that judges, war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide should never be the exclusive jurisdiction of the country on whose territory the crime was committed. so i think that such an amendment is not part of this resolution.
on behalf of the alde group. on behalf of the alde group, i support the resolution and the extremely constructive and patient work of rapporteur david mcallister, who has set out valid reasons for evaluating positively serbia's efforts to gradually qualify for membership of the european union. serbia's progress is obvious and encouraging. the reform and screening process is proceeding efficiently. serbia's european perspective is becoming attainable and real. the resolution points to areas where more needs to be done: in the judiciary, the fight against corruption, the opening up and stabilisation of the economy and legal certainty in this area, respect for minorities, lgbt dignity, freedom of expression, media. these are values beyond which there is no way. serbia is an important factor of regional stability and i believe that as the osce chair country it will prove this in the future.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. i would like to begin by thanking mr mcallister for his excellent report on serbia's progress. mostly for the great cooperation and for the openness, for the compromises that led to interesting discussions, of course. but i think the resolution is a good one, and i support it, of course. i must say that serbia has made great strides in recent years. she's been very serious about some reforms. because there is a strong commitment to achieving the highest possible degree of independence in the judicial field, which also strengthens trust in the rule of law. the issue of corruption, which is of course not negligible in serbia, has also been on the agenda. but of course, this is a process that will take some time. above all, it is important to recognize that corruption is slowly leading to the downfall of the state and must be dealt with seriously. i am of course confident that serbia will continue with its reforms and will strive for even greater transparency. in this context, i would like to emphasize the role of the state audit commission, or control over the use of public funds, as this is also one of the outstanding indicators and mirrors of the functioning of any authority. and i think that in this way he can actually also direct the spending of public funds, which is also important from the point of view of the european funds that flow into serbia. and the report of the european court of auditors also gives us confidence that these funds are being used in most cases, of course, correctly and wisely. the one problem that remains, of course, is the high unemployment rate, the youth, the economy, the media. i myself have received quite a few emails pointing out the issue of media independence, and here i would of course point out that the authorities still have a lot of steps to take. some of the shareholders of agrobank and some things that will have to be answered in the future.
i too very much welcome mr mcallister's report. i think it is a very good, balanced report, and one which gives a great deal of optimism that serbia is on the right track. i come from slovenia, which was the first former yugoslav state to join the european union, and i know very well the efforts that the serbian government must now make to improve the area of regional cooperation, to tackle the most decisive reforms, which were "taboo" in serbia until a few years ago, to improve the business environment, and to also take up the very challenging area of the rule of law: the fight against corruption, the prosecution of crime. serbia needs european solidarity so that the people of serbia can enjoy the same conditions as other europeans as soon as possible and enjoy the benefits of being members of a common european union.
i join in congratulating and thanking mrs lunacek for a good report which really does detail the situation in... in kosovo. we were talking earlier about serbia, where the message and the report were more encouraging than that from kosovo, because the reality is also harder in kosovo. the main points in the report, which have been presented here today, are key. the problem of unemployment, a problem that leaves many people in kosovo without hope and leads them to abandon themselves to the illegal and criminal groups that traffic in these people. in my country, too, there are a whole range of people from kosovo who are looking for a future. because they explain how hard it is to be at home when there are no jobs and when jobs are paid very low wages. i support efforts to establish a genuine rule of law and to continue good cooperation with serbia, because the common good is the key to the progress of both countries.
it would be interesting to compare the european council's main themes in the past and the present. the crisis has brought enormous grief to european citizens. on the other hand, the search for a way out of the crisis has triggered some positive processes. it has brought us closer together, or even integrated. when we talk about the european union today, we are talking about the capital markets union, the banking union, the digital union, the energy union, not to mention the european semester, which allows control over the budgets of the member states. before the crisis, which i hope we have largely survived, such a unified narrative would not have been possible. i think this new wave of integration is a sensible response to the crisis, which will also increase immunity to various shocks. today's debate has shown that the european union can only establish itself as a global player if it has a unified position on security and foreign policy, i.e. a coordinated approach to putin, ukraine, ttip and so on.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the stabilisation and association agreement with montenegro is important for good trade relations between the european union and montenegro. the agreement has a positive impact on the economic situation in the country and also promotes and strengthens cooperation between montenegro and the eu. the agreement is certainly important for the further negotiations on montenegro's accession to the eu. that is why i supported the report and voted for its adoption.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposed guidelines for the 2016 budget. 94% of the budget will be devoted to investment, growth and employment, and 6% to the functioning of the administration. 2016 will be the year of jobs, business and entrepreneurship. i am firmly against the debate on the european budget being used to score national points. i really wish this year was different. remember, the eu budget has an important role to play in promoting competitiveness and economic, social and territorial cohesion in the eu given its investment nature and, consequently, an important role to play in addressing and reducing uncertainty, mistrust and discontent among eu citizens. i therefore supported the proposed guidelines for the european budget for 2016.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the general guidelines for the 2016 budget because it emphasises employment, supports the economy and encourages entrepreneurship across the eu. the eu budget can have a strong leverage effect, boosting growth, competitiveness and innovation, and adding value in creating new jobs. it plays a key role in reducing disparities between european regions and increasing social cohesion and developing businesses and entrepreneurship for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth across the eu. around 94% of the eu budget is reinvested in the member states, a large proportion through the structural and investment funds, enabling many projects with european added value. the eu's cohesion policy is making a major contribution to maintaining public investment in key economic areas and has already achieved tangible results helping countries to overcome the crisis and achieve the europe 2020 goals. the guidelines also address, inter alia, the strengthening of the neighbourhood policy and security issues of relevance to eu citizens. i hope that the european commission will take parliament's good proposals into account when it prepares the draft budget in may.
in writing. ‒ i supported the 2013 annual report on the protection of the eu's financial interests the fight against fraud. each member state contributes proportionally to the european budget, so all member states have a vested interest in the exercise of financial interests. it should be noted that not only fraud is involved, but many irregularities also occur due to lack of knowledge of the rules and the complexity of the legislation. consequently, the sanctions must be accompanied by other measures which member states will equip with the knowledge that they will be able to reduce the number of irregularities not resulting from fraud in the future. i also supported the report because the protection of the eu's financial interests is a very important issue.
given that montenegro's accession negotiations to the eu only started in 2012 and that it has opened 16 out of 35 chapters and even temporarily closed two, it is arguably the most successful candidate from the circle of those seeking to join the european union. reform efforts in certain economic areas, the competitiveness of the small economy and more efficient administrative procedures are already yielding positive results and must be pursued with determination, thus also setting an example for the other candidate member states. the fundamental problems that are characteristic of the countries in this area also remain in montenegro: corruption and organised crime, insufficient progress in respecting human rights, lack of independence of the media and the judiciary. these are all areas that are dragging the entire region down. i want the people of montenegro to have a better standard of living, but that doesn't mean they have to raise a certain moral standard in society.
in writing. ‒ i am happy that accession negotiations mean that montenegro has already sixteen opened chapters and that it was able to provisionally close two of them. this is true progress not only for montenegro but for the european perspective of the region as a whole. furthermore, i consider the authorities in montenegro should take decisive action on fighting corruption and engaging in reforming state processes with a clear separation of private and public interests.
in writing. ‒ the progress report on montenegro is very well written and balanced, covering and highlighting all the important aspects such as corruption, organised crime, the judiciary, media and freedom of expression, minority rights, gender equality and foreign policy. i welcome the progress that has been made so far and that shows montenegro's serious commitment to improving the situation in the country. i welcome the continuation of negotiations on the basis of the improvements adopted and implemented so far and the reforms reflecting concrete results, in particular in the area of the rule of law. other than that, i'm worried about the state of the economy and the unemployment rate. this is certainly a problem that will need a lot of attention in the coming years. it is necessary to realize that if the economic situation in the country improves, then crime and corruption will also decrease, of course, in combination with appropriate laws. the country needs to be made attractive to foreign investors and enable existing businesses to continue to operate successfully. i am happy and welcome the progress made by montenegro and i am confident that they will continue on this good path in the future, because they are focused and have a clearly defined goal. that is why i voted in favour of the resolution on the progress of montenegro made in 2014.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the progress of montenegro in 2014, which leads the western balkans as a candidate country. the eu has also committed to supporting the implementation of the eu's common foreign and security policy (cfsp) and the implementation of the eu's common security and defence policy (csdp). further efforts are needed to implement constitutional reforms, and citizens' trust in the institutions needs to be strengthened. montenegro needs to strengthen transparency and improve the business environment. a well-functioning public administration has a direct impact on the ability of the government to provide public services. it also contributes to growth and competitiveness. freedom of expression and freedom of foundations are among the core values of the european agenda. in this area, there is much work to be done in montenegro.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the progress of montenegro on the eu path for 2014 prepared by mr charles tannock, as it is right that parliament highlights the positive aspects of the process, while at the same time drawing attention to the still present problems in the country, such as the lack of respect for media freedom, the lack of the rule of law, the pervasive corruption and the lack of parliamentary activity. montenegro is the fastest-approaching country to the european union and is the only country in the region to have opened 16 chapters in its negotiations with the eu, including chapter 24 on the rule of law. it has even temporarily closed two chapters (education and culture, among others). i believe that pro-european and pro-democratic thinking will prevail and that montenegro will successfully complete its rapprochement with the european union.
i supported the resolution on the progress report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia because i believe it identifies well the situation in the country, which is by no means rosy, and at the same time it gives the country the appropriate impetus to move towards faster accession negotiations. i believe that the name dispute with greece, which has been one of the main obstacles to accession for many years... in the country's eu accession process, is easy to resolve as soon as possible and no longer affect the start of negotiations. that's the current political situation in makedo. ...that... that, yes, the current political situation in macedonia is extremely unstable, but delaying the start of negotiations could only lead the country into further chaos. this is something that neither the european parliament nor the other eu institutions can and must allow, in the interests of stability in the region as a whole and of convergence with european values. i believe that macedonian politics, both government and opposition, must immediately start a dialogue that will save the country from the current instability.
in writing. ‒ it is of the utmost importance that accession negotiations with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia start as soon as possible. the eu will start losing its credibility and transformational power in the region if accession negotiations are systematically blocked by bilateral issues, which are much easier to solve with the launch of accession negotiations. there is no added value in further postponing the opening of negotiations, which are the best way to continue the macedonian reform process. the dispute between the government and the main opposition parties is damaging for the functioning of democracy and also has a negative effect on the eu accession process and the general standing of the country. in this regard, the joint parliamentary commitee (jpo) i co-chair is an important tool for exchanging views, enhancing dialogue and political culture, promoting better understanding and ultimately forging political commitments which would improve the accession process. therefore, i really hope that macedonian leaders both in government and in the opposition find a political agreement in order to ensure that the parliament is fully represented and inter alia help in restoring the full functioning of the jpc.
in writing. ‒ the resolution on the 2014 progress report of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia is well written and balanced. it covers all the important aspects that were raised in the report, which is why i supported the resolution. the former yugoslav republic of macedonia has been among the candidates for eu accession for nine years and has made the most progress in alignment with the eu acquis among the candidates. it should be noted that the european parliament has consistently called for the opening of accession negotiations with this country for the last eight years and any further postponement of the opening of negotiations could have a negative impact on the reform processes in the country and the eu's credibility in the region. despite the tremendous progress made by the state in recent years, corruption and organised crime remain a major problem, as do freedom of expression and the independence of the media. the country's polarized political climate is also a cause for concern. the government must therefore respect the role of parliament and provide sufficient time and opportunity for consultation, including on constitutional amendments, to allow for smooth and independent parliamentary oversight. unfortunately, there is no cooperation with civil society organisations and public stakeholders in the preparation of legislation. civil society organisations can make an important contribution to raising public awareness of the accession process and help make it more transparent, accountable and inclusive.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the 2014 progress of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. i welcome the fact that moving closer to the european union remains a strategic priority for macedonia. political crises between the government and the opposition are recurring in the country. a constructive and inclusive dialogue is needed. the government and the opposition must demonstrate a sufficient degree of political responsibility and constructive dialogue to resolve all outstanding issues and accelerate reform efforts in the country. it is also necessary to establish appropriate monitoring mechanisms and to address shortcomings in the area of judicial independence.
as a member of the delegation for cooperation with serbia, i welcome this report, which describes the progress serbia has made in a number of areas over the past year. on the other hand, i consider the report to be balanced, because it also draws attention to the problems that still plague serbia. as a person who has been involved in the judiciary at a national level, i was particularly interested in the points that concern judicial reform, police reform and the fight against corruption. it is clear that while serbia is trying to reform the judiciary, there is still room for improvement on the road to the rule of law. it is good that this call is made explicitly in the report, that without serbia being a clear state of law, it can hardly become a member of the european union. i think we should help serbia in this matter, because the reform of the state, the police and the judiciary is one of the most difficult and all the new member countries that used to belong to the post-communist bloc have been waiting for these reforms, and those who want to join will be waiting for them.
i was very happy to support the resolution on serbia's progress. it speaks of the great efforts of the serbian government to respect european values, both through its reform programme, through better relations in the region, and through other... progress in the rule of law. i am convinced that the people of the serbian region deserve european solidarity and that they should develop their country as soon as possible to the point where it is able to join the european union. the efforts of the current government and the strong drive of the serbian people to take a pro-european path must be complemented by european solidarity and also by pre-accession aid and other instruments to prepare serbia for eu membership as soon as possible. i wish them much success on this journey.
i must say that in monitoring serbia's progress towards european integration, it has been observed that serbia has made considerable progress in recent years in various areas, in reforms, including in the judiciary, in reforms which are important for meeting the conditions for accession to the european union. of course, some external circumstances were not favorable. i am, of course, referring to the floods that have affected serbia and some other countries. and i think that in the situation that serbia is in, also economically, i think that we need to look in this area too for challenges that can bring serbia more quickly towards european integration. and i think it's very important to also highlight the role of the neighbouring countries and the relationship with them. and i think that when we are talking about serbia, we must also be so solidary that we help serbia in this and of course we do not hinder it in this.
in writing. ‒ i consider serbia’s integration process in the western balkans could play a decisive role in the european perspective of the region. it is a country with general well-preparedness and positive engagement. serbia should continue on its way of enhancing the rule of law and progress in the normalisation process with kosovo. due to personal reasons, i was not able to vote, but i welcome the efforts made by serbia so far in the european integration process.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on serbia's progress in 2014. i welcome this report, which describes the progress made in the past year. the report is balanced in that it also highlights the problems the country is facing. it is necessary to provide for additional measures for a genuinely independent judiciary and an even stronger fight against corruption and organised crime. despite the efforts made, there is still room for improvement in this area. and that call is clearly recorded in this report. if serbia does not become a true state governed by the rule of law, it cannot become a member of the eu. we must therefore help serbia to implement judicial reforms.
i supported the resolution on the process of kosovo's integration, as it provides a good overview of what has already been achieved over the years, but at the same time it points out the major shortcomings and problems that kosovo still faces and needs to change. the obvious fact that we have seen recently is that people do not seem to see a future in their country. this is due to the failure of many subsystems that are clearly not functioning in the country. but the problem of the exodus is just one of the last ones that have escalated, and those... and they clearly indicate that the country is in an alarming state, which already affects the countries in the eu. those who live geographically close, and those who are targeted by the poor population, by the criminal organizations that give false hope to the desperate. in slovenia too, there are many impoverished kosovars who see no future at home and bear witness to the difficult conditions there.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the fact that kosovo has been able to overcome critical differences and that the government is engaged in progressing the country towards the eu and advancing in the european spirit. i regret i was not able to vote on the resolution, due to absence.
in writing. ‒ i support the european parliament's resolution on the process of kosovo's integration into the european union, which i voted in favour of at the plenary session on 11 march 2015. the authorities and people of the republic of kosovo have achieved important political, administrative and economic reforms. however, much remains to be done to strengthen the rule of law, which is the foundation of long-term development, democracy and a social market economy. in addition, kosovo has strengthened its capacity to address the priorities of the eu integration process by further action on the basis of the short-term priorities identified in the feasibility study and by preparing for the negotiation of a stabilisation and association agreement with the eu. in the framework of the visa liberalisation dialogue, kosovo has amended and adopted important legislation, including laws on asylum, party financing and trafficking in human beings. despite good progress, further efforts are still needed to address the challenges of the european agenda for reform under the stabilisation and association agreement, in particular in priority areas such as the rule of law, the judiciary, public administration, electoral reform and human and fundamental rights. but i am confident that kosovo will continue to cope successfully with the marked progress and improvements in the country in the coming years.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the process of kosovo's integration into the european union, which is balanced and objective. it clearly shows the structural problems in kosovo in terms of the economy and the rule of law, but also points the way forward. this is a clear signal that the future of kosovo is in europe. the citizens of kosovo deserve concrete results and solutions to their biggest problems. particular attention should be paid to improving the rule of law, the independence of the judiciary and strengthening the fight against corruption. it should be clearly stated that the main responsibility for progress lies with kosovo. the main institutions, the political leadership and civil society must play their part and contribute to a faster path to the european union.
in writing. ‒ the crisis has shown how things cannot go any further. structural reforms with the aim of achieving fiscal consolidation, increased productivity and enhanced functioning of the social market economy are the ways to create stability, growth and increased employment prospects. the only way to achieve all of these on a european scale is for member states urgently to start implementing the recommendations formulated during the semester exercise, applying reforms and respecting the growth pact. i support all actions and semester enhancements that will provide the necessary strength for the reforms to happen, and i believe that the semester is the necessary tool to achieve such eu coordination.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report by mr rosati on the european semester for economic policy coordination, the 2015 annual growth survey, as it aims to restore higher growth rates and strengthen the recovery, and supports an approach based on three main pillars: boosting investment, accelerating structural reforms and implementing growth-friendly fiscal consolidation. i also endorsed the report because i agree that the eu economy as a whole needs to further strengthen its competitiveness in the global economy, in particular by increasing competition in the product and service markets, in order to improve innovation-driven efficiency. labour costs should remain in line with productivity and wages should contribute to sustainable social protection systems.
in writing. ‒ the european semester, launched in 2010, has proved to be the right mechanism to establish an annual cycle of economic policy coordination, including a detailed analysis of member states' plans for budgetary, macroeconomic and structural reforms. it is particularly important for partly reformed economies such as slovenia, as it shows clearly the path that countries must take. i agree with the warning that the eu recovery is still fragile and needs to be strengthened. the member states that have not yet achieved the objectives we have agreed with the commission are the ones we have the most work to do. first of all, i would like to stress the importance of structural reforms that a number of countries, including slovenia, still need to carry out. we need to make the labour market more efficient, modernise social protection systems, including pensions, and at the same time improve and simplify the legal framework for business investment, as commissioner jourova has just highlighted in her report, and carry out transparent privatisation. structural reforms must bring sustainable growth, higher employment and prosperity for all. the fiscal responsibility is crucial. i am pleased that the number of countries in the excessive deficit procedure has decreased significantly. the golden fiscal rule for sustainable public finances is crucial here.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the european semester for economic policy coordination: employment and social aspects in the annual growth survey 2015. europe must commit itself to a social market economy model that ensures sustainable growth in order to provide jobs for future generations, not debts. i agree with the report that the member states have a key role in shaping employment policies, including youth employment policies, and that these measures are best implemented at national level. the high unemployment rate needs to be tackled urgently. the unemployment rate is still higher than ever, with almost 25 million people out of work in the eu.
in writing. ‒ completion of the single market is the urgent priority for achieving enhanced, sustainable growth. there is still great potential to be achieved and the eu should keep on removing barriers which disrupt the single market, and enhancing mechanisms, governance and coordination.
in writing. ‒ a single market strategy requires a holistic approach that takes into account the interests of citizens, consumers and smes. for the single market to work well and successfully, it needs to be integrated into all policy areas. however, care must be taken to maintain a balance between the economic, social and environmental dimensions. it is necessary to recognise that growth and competitiveness, and the creation of new jobs that are expected to revitalise the european economy, require a well-functioning and efficient single market based on a competitive and social market economy. unnecessary regulatory burden, especially for smes, should therefore be avoided. the latter should be given better access to finance. first, very great attention should be paid to preventing unfair competition and market distortions. the single market must become the third pillar of the european semester in order to clearly cover the real economy priority areas. this must be done in full respect of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality within the eu. the economy needs to be geared towards innovation and knowledge, as this will prepare us for the demands of the digital age in the future. for these reasons, i supported the report and voted in favour of its adoption.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the governance of the single market in the context of the european semester 2015. the european semester, which was established in 2010, is a cycle of economic and fiscal policy coordination in the eu. it is part of the economic governance framework of the european union. economic indicators are better today than they were a few years ago, but we all recognize that we are not yet where we want to be. the debate on the european semester is a very important debate. i think we need to deepen the single market even further. the debate showed that we need more coordination in order to improve the single market. we have so many regulations and rules that are so complicated that actually enforcing them is a real challenge. we need restructuring, but we can't do it overnight. we must stay on this path and i am confident that with our joint efforts we will achieve the desired results.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the governance of the single market in the context of the european semester 2015, which is a key mechanism for coordinating the economic policies of the member states, preventing excessive macroeconomic imbalances, ensuring sound public finances and economic stability in the eu. the semester should ensure that countries are truly adhering to the objectives they have set themselves at eu level, which is important as their economies are highly interconnected. it is good to include the unification and deepening of the single market in the european semester, with a particular focus on the single energy market and the digital single market. the single market is a tool to boost economic growth and create quality jobs in the eu, but more than 20 years after its formal establishment, it is still incomplete. the final completion of the digital single market could generate an additional 0.4% of gdp growth (eur 520 billion in 2014 prices) and an increase in employment of around 0.1% (more than 223 thousand new jobs by 2020). the creation of a single energy market would bring the eu greater security of energy supply and greater independence from russia. the current rate of implementation of the european semester is unfortunately very low, and all countries, large and small, need to respect more the rules of the stability and growth pact, which is the foundation of the european semester.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on combating child sexual abuse on the internet. serious crimes such as the sexual exploitation of children and child abuse images require a comprehensive approach, including the investigation of the crime, the prosecution of the perpetrators, the protection of child victims and the prevention of these phenomena. i supported the resolution because it strongly emphasises the need to protect children's rights on the internet and to take measures to ensure that all illegal content is removed immediately and that law enforcement authorities are informed. it is also necessary to call on the member states to take appropriate measures to make it easier and more frequent for children to report abuse, to improve and strengthen the follow-up to such reports, and to examine the possibility of establishing mechanisms for systematic and direct reporting of such acts.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a european parliament resolution calling for a stronger fight against the sexual abuse of children on the internet, as children are particularly vulnerable to such crimes and as one of the most important tasks of the eu and the member states is to protect children and provide a safe environment for their development. children can easily access or be exposed to sexual exploitation or intimidation and sexual contact on the internet. exposure is exacerbated by the increasing availability of mobile technology and the internet. the reporting rate of these acts is very low and therefore the available data on the number of crimes committed do not reflect the true scale of the problem, as in the case of 'invisible children', who are victims of trafficking and therefore do not have a legal identity. unfortunately, less than half of the eu countries have fully implemented directive 2011/93/ec on combating the sexual abuse of children and child pornography, and implementation needs to be accelerated as much as possible. the strengthening of the european cybercrime centre, which currently has only three staff, would also be welcome, as europol also fights against trafficking in human beings and organised crime.
nemtsov's murder is a blow to the russian opposition and a blow to european democracy, to our expectation that russia, after putin's authoritarian period, will also take the already well-worn path of democracy. we knew the democrats in russia, they were our partners 20 years ago. and then we kind of lost sight of them. maybe we didn't pay enough attention to them, maybe the charisma of the authoritarian leader was stronger than the persuasiveness of the new politicians, the democratic politicians, the democratic alternatives in russia. mikhail kasyanov told us yesterday that he has enough courage and that his friends have enough courage. we have to help them. but he also told us that russia is not putin, that russia is willing to be our partner, and that we have to be careful not to develop in an atmosphere that is emotionally charged, something that is directed against russia as such. russia is our neighbor and also our potential strategic partner.
i join those who condemn murder. the assassination of a prominent opposition politician, which actually dealt a rather severe blow to some hopes that dialogue with russia could nevertheless be initiated at a higher level. and there's a question that's been asked many times, not just one, more questions than we have answers of course, what's really going on with democracy in russia. and i think we also have to ask ourselves whether democracy can be imposed, and therefore whether it needs to be imposed in some way on another country by appropriate methods. and i think it also calls into question the sanctions' validity and the damage that we've done to ourselves. but i think that we must of course use all our powers to achieve a higher level of respect for human rights in russia through dialogue.
mr president, the respect for human rights is supposed to be a precondition for our relations with countries with which we have contractual relations. what should the consequences be for those countries which have violated international law and human rights, and which occupy foreign territories? a couple of days ago, the israeli prime minister arrogantly let us know that he does not support the two-state solution. we know what it means. the minister for foreign affairs of armenia which occupies nagorno karabakh stated yesterday in an interview in my country that armenia’s main strategic partner in economy and in defence is russia, and he said that a russian military base in gyumri represents the warranty for its country’s security. the government of morocco, also our partner, will soon organise a high-ranking international conference in dakhla, in the occupied territory of western sahara, where morocco is violating the basic rights of the saharawi population. madam mogherini, are we going to change our policy with regard to these countries?
it's a very difficult subject, which, of course, you have to be aware of. but all the time, i'd be touching something else we haven't talked about. and you mentioned, in that document, the fight against terrorism. but i think that it is precisely in this fight that sometimes, in this concern for human rights, we also interfere with human rights, especially with these measures that are data collection powers that can interfere with greater control over people. this may also constitute an infringement of human rights. and so, of course, i would be concerned if you accepted some package of the so-called patriot act and fell into this temptation of reinforcing the role of big brother. that is why i also think it is important to cooperate with the council of europe. and it is the council of europe that can help us to develop a longer-term strategy for the protection of the human rights we are fighting for.
at the end of january, we marked the 70th anniversary of the liberation of the concentration camps. the greatest tribute to the six million victims of the holocaust of world war ii would be understanding and peaceful coexistence. instead, we are witnessing a resurgence of anti-semitism in europe today. the rise of extremist ideologies is the greatest danger to democracy, a threat to the people of the european union, to our way of life, to the values and freedoms on which the european union was founded and which it is still based. so it's important that we do everything we can to contain this in the first place. the fight against intolerance, xenophobia and anti-semitism is the responsibility of each of us. the fight for greater tolerance and participation in society requires the efforts of both political actors and civil society, but this is the only true and possible way forward. i believe we can do this.
in writing. the european union was not founded on the values of anti-semitism, islamophobia or violent extremism. yet these are the challenges we have been facing in the heart of the eu in recent months. the phenomena that we strongly reject and condemn should be subject to a zero tolerance policy, as they are incompatible with the values of respect for human dignity, rights, freedom, equality and non-discrimination. the wave of anti-semitism is a pan-european problem that needs to be tackled in a coordinated way. i therefore welcome the high representative's support for the idea of the european jewish congress to establish an eu working group on combating anti-semitism, to be composed of meps, members of the european commission and representatives of civil society. over the years, intercultural dialogue has become an important element of eu action and one of the key weapons in the fight against extremism. while the european union has some levers to fight anti-semitism and violent extremism, notably through legislation, financial support and dialogue, we should be much bolder in tackling these problems. and last but not least, let's not forget about education, which is the key preventive approach in the fight against anti-semitism. member states should strengthen civic education in schools, including education on religion, and thus tackle ignorance. perhaps this would help prevent the terrible events we've witnessed in recent months.
i agree with what the previous speaker said. i think the situation we're in right now, given that there are no specific limits on the capture of the cod, puts this species at the brink of practically extinction. even though the commercialisation of this fish has increased greatly. i would add, however, that it is of course necessary to welcome the management measures resulting from this resolution and also to introduce international management of cod catches. but i think that all these measures will be a little too harsh if this commercialisation is not handled more judiciously, and i am aware, of course, that this is an important economic sector. and here we have to find some sort of synergy between the economic industry and the loss of income due to the restrictions, and of course the funds available for subsidies, and of course, on the third side, the concern that we are not in danger of losing this very important fish over time.
in writing. - i also join all those who condemn the murder of the important opposition leader boris nemtsov. this act dealt a severe blow to hopes that dialogue with russia could be initiated at a higher level. there are a lot of questions, more than we have answers, about what's really going on with democracy in russia. i have a feeling that such actions only confirm the belief that intimidation and violence are commonplace in russian politics. and then, of course, there is the question of whether democracy can be imposed in connection with the question of the sanctions' usefulness and the consequent damage that we have caused ourselves. all efforts must be directed towards achieving a higher level of respect for human rights in russia through dialogue. it is necessary to allow for a swift, transparent and impartial investigation into the circumstances of the murder and to find the perpetrators. that is why i supported the resolution calling on russia to address these problems and improve the political situation in the country.
in writing. ‒ the eu will have to seriously consider the role of a common foreign strategy in order to be able to act for its interests in a world which is getting more and more polarized. a common foreign strategy has been too long forgotten and is becoming a clear necessity, at least before the integrity of the union comes severely under threat.
in writing. ‒ i regret the fact that a report which should be dedicated to enlightening the value of human dignity has been hijacked through amendments against the fundamental right to human life. from this standpoint, i was unable to support the resolution as whole, as i would not be able to vote in favour of any text which does not respect human dignity from the moment of conception onwards. i can hardly accept that our house make recommendations on issues which under the principle of subsidiarity are the exclusive concern of the member states, and it is up to them to decide on how to deal with the matter.
in writing. ‒ the report under discussion contains an important message linking human rights, migration and also relations with the european union's strategic partners. the latter should have human rights high on the agenda. it is essential that the european parliament continues to support human rights defenders. the issue of human rights and democracy in the world is a very complex and important one. so we have to be on our toes at all times. the 2013 report also mentions the fight against terrorism, but sometimes human rights concerns are involved in this fight. this is particularly true of measures involving data collection powers that can interfere with greater control over people. and it is precisely this control that can constitute an interference with human rights. so it would be a matter of concern if they accepted some package of so-called "patriotic acts" and were tempted to reinforce the role of "big brother". in this light, cooperation with the council of europe is important, as it is the institution with which we could co-design a longer-term strategy in the field of human rights protection. the fight for human rights in all areas is very important and needs to be upgraded, which is why i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ there are currently no limits on catches of cod found in the north sea and the gulf of riga and other western waters. the cod is a commercially very important species of fish. i think it is sensible and important to call for a controlled catch of blue whiting, which is clearly defined in the resolution under consideration. i think it is very important to have a multiannual management plan for the cod fishery, because scientists have been warning for some years about the problem of overfishing of cod. the european commission has so far not been successful in persuading member states to adopt controls on the capture of bluefin tuna. in addition to commercial catches, recreational fishermen's catches of cod account for as much as 25% of the problem, which are not covered by current catch limitation legislation. otherwise, some member states have limits on the quantity of cod caught, but this is not enough. i certainly support the need to introduce international management of cod catches, both for commercial and personal purposes. because that's the only way that the adjustment plan can be successful and effective. otherwise, over time, we may be facing the threat of extinction of this vital fish. and of course, we can't afford such ecological disasters. for these reasons, i supported the resolution and voted for its adoption.
in writing. ‒ the eu should keep its global role in promoting the fundamental values of democracy, the rule of law and the respect for human dignity. venezuela is traversing very hard times in this respect and the eu should be engaged in levelling up fundamental values, such as the respect for personal freedom, and support all processes that would lead and help venezuela towards a process of democratisation.
in writing. ‒ despite the current very difficult and serious situation in venezuela, the will of the venezuelan people, who have democratically decided 18 times that what they want is 21st century socialism, introduced by chávez and continued today by president nicolas maduro, must be respected. the most serious problem facing the bolivarian revolution is the constant attempt to stage a coup d'état or destabilize the constitutional order through economic and media warfare and the incitement of street violence. the fact is that venezuelan society is highly polarized and both sides use violent methods that are unacceptable in a democratic society. i think it's necessary to use mediation and respect the rule of law. violence is certainly not the way out of the present difficult situation. democracy is about respecting the will of the majority, and the venezuelan people have chosen the path of the new socialism, which they call 21st century socialism. violence over violence is not the answer, which is why i did not support the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in venezuela, in which meps committed themselves to upholding the rule of law and respect for democratic values, as well as to the security of european companies in venezuela. on 19 february 2015, the venezuelan intelligence service arbitrarily detained the opposition leader, democratically elected mayor of caracas, antonio ledezma, without evidence of a crime, nor a warrant for his arrest. we called for his immediate release, as well as the release of all peaceful protesters, students and other opposition leaders who were detained for exercising their right to freedom of expression during the 2014 protests. we condemned the execution of seven students in venezuela. opposition leaders in venezuela have been accused of allegedly planning coups in the past without evidence. the intimidation and harsh treatment of opposition leaders and students has intensified, indicating that fundamental rights and freedoms are diminishing, and that even the upcoming elections could be threatened. the country, which has one of the highest rates of violence in the world, is no longer able to maintain public order and peace, and although it has the largest energy reserves in latin america, its people suffer from severe shortages of basic goods.
in writing. germany requires foreign carriers carrying goods or passengers in germany to provide proof that they guarantee their drivers a minimum wage of eur 8,5 gross per hour as of 1 january 2015. such a measure is positive from the point of view of preventing social dumping in road transport and is respected by slovenian carriers, but at the same time such a unilateral measure jeopardises the principle of free movement of services. in the eu, we cannot solve one problem by creating another. this is mainly due to the restrictions on the eu's internal market and the dominance of germany over competition, which is hampering them in this way. the introduction of a minimum wage for truck drivers in germany is logical and acceptable, but they cannot demand it from other member states with completely different standards and wages. administrative barriers need to be reduced, but not at the expense of protecting workers who are too often exploited and paid too little for their work. the imbalance between the integration of the single market and the provision of unhindered services on the one hand and the lack of uniform social standards on the other is unacceptable and we cannot allow these problems to reappear in the eu. the european commission should set minimum standards for working conditions at eu level and also ensure fair pay in the transport sector.
i am proud that my political group is leading the fight against discrimination against roma and is working for their equal inclusion in european society. and i am saddened that even in our institution, in our temple of democracy and respect for human rights, there are mps who spread hate speech, who express anti-roma, racist views. it is my duty and ours to stop these colleagues every day, and today is once again a public opportunity to ask all these colleagues and others who think of roma as inferior people, including ourselves, how they would feel if they were born as roma. if our child were put in a mental institution because he's romani. if we were automatically sent to less intelligent classes, to special schools, because we were roma. if we were beaten because we were a minority or if we were denied a decent burial. because these scandals are happening today, in 21st century europe. the roma are our largest ethnic minority and their situation has deteriorated significantly during the economic crisis. the future for them and for us is education. the roma need to be educated, but we need to be educated too. we have to break down the stereotypes. let's also start using a different diction. let's not ask what we can do for the roma in europe. we have to ask ourselves what, and more importantly, how, we can do with them. more attention should also be paid to young roma and their organisations. by systematically working together, by empowering them to occupy positions of power, and by continuously confronting hate speech, we will be able to implement measures that will ensure that the roma, the discriminated against, even systematically killed minority of this century, live in dignity, pride and justice. this, not ethnicity, is what most painfully distinguishes roma from fellow citizens.
allow me to join in this discussion of the genocide of the roma and sinti during the second world war. the more we learn about this dark side of european history, the more we can say that it is indeed a forgotten holocaust. i would like to emphasize that the violence against roma is not yet terminologically acceptable in the concept of genocide. we must therefore, at the level of the united nations or the european institutions, extend the meaning of this concept in the future. but the fact is that it was a mass crime, an ethnic cleansing, that took the lives of some 600,000 roma, including women and children, during world war ii. it is commonly said that the nazis alone were responsible for this genocide. but the fact is that stalin also had romani families killed from leningrad to moldavia in the 1930s. the fascists also had concentration camps for roma in italy. well, in my country, too, a few hundred roma were killed during the war. significantly, most of them were killed by partisans who were under the leadership of the communist revolutionary movement. the rest were added by the nazi and fascist authorities. let me finish. only totalitarian regimes and powers, all in turn, have carried out genocide against roma. today's generation must remain committed to the memory of these victims and to ensuring that these and other horrors of our half-past history will never be repeated.
the history of genocide must not be repeated. we must create a europe that enables everyone to help themselves. this is why all forms of discrimination and exclusion must be fought. as has been said many times today, the roma are the largest ethnic group in europe, with their own culture, their own customs and perhaps sometimes their own sense of freedom. however, they have exactly the same rights and duties as all other europeans. it is therefore necessary to provide the appropriate financial incentives and the means for an inclusion policy, for a cooperation policy and, in fact, for a policy that will also allow roma to live the life we want for ourselves. unfortunately, we are living in an increasingly intolerant time, and we must also strengthen our preventive action, and here, of course, we must also call on the commission, not only on roma day but also on other days of the year.
the public procurement sector is a matter of billions of public funds and i think this topic deserves special attention. some equate public procurement with corruption, but i think that everything else is important in public procurement, not just the lowest price, because how can the right to healthy food and a healthy environment compete with the lowest price? clearly it cannot, and in a way we are also lowering the quality of life of the people who are subject to or who enjoy the benefits of public procurement. in schools, in kindergartens, they buy food on the lowest price, where they buy cheaper, lower quality food, and that can, of course, have a significant impact on the health and quality of life of our children. i therefore naturally call on the commission to take the necessary measures in this area too, in accordance with the new directives.
a month ago, the supreme court of the republic of slovenia formally and in substance dismissed the controversial report of the commission on the prevention of corruption, which in 2013 served as a tool to remove the otherwise successful centre-right government of janez janša. the fall of the government brought about the necessary reforms, mainly privatisation. the court's decision, after two years, has granted the right, but the economic, social and political consequences remain. the poor functioning of the slovenian judiciary is a particular concern, which is the reason why it enjoys the lowest level of trust among citizens compared to other member states. let me just remind you of the infamous patria trial. i call on the european commission to prepare as soon as possible a set of six measures in the field of justice, which will allow for external systematic monitoring of the functioning of the courts in the member states. only then can citizens, especially those from transition countries, expect improvements.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposed decision to allocate funds from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) of around eur 5 million to 16 companies in the greek region of attica, operating in the broadcasting sector, which had been forced to make redundancies due to the deterioration of the economic situation. the egf will thus provide assistance to 928 workers who lost their jobs in 2014. the measures to be taken by the redundant workers will thus include vocational guidance, training (re-training, vocational and specialised training), education and compensation for job search, training and mobility. the commission will also be able to use the new financial instruments to support the implementation of the new financial instruments. 120 workers will be provided with a mobility allowance to help them move to the place where they will be offered a new job. the attica region is the worst placed among the 12 greek regions in terms of unemployment rates, as it already has the highest number of unemployed people in greece. this is why this type of assistance from the eu budget is so necessary. i hope that slovenia will also start to use the egf more intensively and thus enable individuals who have lost their jobs in the past to be re-employed.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is an instrument through which the european union provides additional support to workers who have been affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade flows and helps them to reintegrate into the labour market. the application for a financial contribution submitted by greece for the support of the region of attica, where 928 redundancies in 16 enterprises have been made, meets the eligibility criteria for the aid. the redundancies in the radio and television sector in the attica region are the result of the global financial and economic crisis, which has reduced household disposable income, leading to a decline in purchasing power and a decline in household costs related to everyday information. in addition, the shortage of cash in greek banks has led to a reduction in the volume of loans to companies and individuals. the redundancies have serious consequences for the attica region, where the unemployment rate was already the highest in greece in this sector before the redundancies. as the package of co-financed services covers the following important areas: vocational guidance and training, self-employment assistance and job search allowances, i supported the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for attico broadcasting - greece, following the dismissal of 928 redundant workers in 16 companies active in the broadcasting sector. the redundancies in the radio and television sector in the attica region are linked to the global financial and economic crisis, which has reduced disposable household income on the one hand and drastically reduced the volume of loans to companies and individuals on the other hand due to the lack of money in greek banks. i also supported the resolution because the workers come from the attica region, which has the highest number of unemployed people compared to other greek regions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in the event of redundancies in the radio and television sector in the attica region of greece (attica broadcasting), as the dismissal of 928 redundant workers in 16 different companies was linked to the global financial and economic crisis, which has led households to divert their resources to essential goods and reduced purchasing power for radio and television services. i also voted in favour of the report because the redundancies are having a negative impact on the region, which already has the highest number of unemployed in greece, and because the report allows the egf to co-finance job search, career guidance, training, education, mobility and the creation of own businesses. the fund will encourage entrepreneurship by providing funds for viable business initiatives, which should also lead to the creation of additional jobs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposed report or decision allocating a good eur 3 746 700 from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to 46 publishing companies in the attica region of greece, which had been forced to make redundancies due to the deterioration of the economic situation. the egf will thus provide assistance to 705 workers who lost their jobs in 2014. the dismissed workers will thus receive eur 1.2 million in the form of self-employment grants, eur 1.104 million for vocational guidance and training. eur 828,000 will be allocated to training allowances, with the remainder to job search and mobility allowances. up to 80 redundant workers will be able to receive up to eur 15 000 in start-up aid and 80 redundant workers will be entitled to a mobility allowance to help them move to the place where they will be offered a new job. the attica region is the worst placed among the 12 greek regions in terms of unemployment rate, as it already has the highest number of unemployed people in greece. this is why this type of assistance from the eu budget is so necessary. i hope that slovenia will also start to use the egf more intensively and thus enable individuals who have lost their jobs in the past to be re-employed.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is an instrument through which the european union provides additional support to workers who have been affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade flows and helps them to reintegrate into the labour market. the application for a financial contribution submitted by greece for the support of the attica region, where 705 redundancies in 46 enterprises have been made, meets the eligibility criteria. the redundancies in the publishing sector in the attica region are the result of the global financial and economic crisis, which has reduced household disposable income, leading to a decline in purchasing power and a shift in household consumption towards essential products, excluding newspapers and magazines. in addition, the shortage of cash in greek banks has led to a reduction in the volume of loans to companies and individuals. the redundancies have serious consequences for the attica region, where the unemployment rate was already the highest in greece in this sector before the redundancies. as the package of co-financed services covers the following important areas: vocational guidance and training, self-employment assistance and compensation for job search, training and mobility, i supported the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for attico publishing activities - greece following the dismissal of 705 redundant workers in 46 companies operating in the publishing sector. the application fulfils the eligibility criteria and greece is therefore eligible for a financial contribution. i also supported the resolution because all eligible surplus workers were offered a multi-level career guidance programme, which provided them with individual and tailor-made counselling and plans for re-entering the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for the publishing sector in the attica region of greece (attica publishing activites) because the dismissal of 705 redundant workers in 46 different publishing companies was linked to the global financial and economic crisis, which led to a shift in household consumption towards essential products and a significant decline in purchasing power in the area of less essential products such as magazines and newspapers, and because attica has the highest number of unemployed in greece compared to the 12 other greek regions. it is good that the egf is used to reintegrate displaced workers into the labour market through career guidance, training, mobility support and as support for start-ups in the form of self-employment grants. i voted in favour of the report because it stresses that only active labour market measures leading to permanent and long-term employment can be co-financed by the egf, while recalling that the training of workers must also be adapted to the real business environment.
in writing. ‒ i also supported this decision to allocate egf resources of eur 2 490 758 to support the redundant workers of lufthansa technik airmotive ireland (ltai) from ireland. the closure of ltai is the result of major technological changes in the production of aircraft, which also affected their maintenance. european and american airlines are sending their intercontinental aircraft to china for major maintenance work, leaving european aircraft maintenance staff without work. in addition, even the parent company lufthansa technik decided to carry out maintenance work on certain aircraft types at the company's premises in the philippines. as a result, there has been an intensive redundancy in the machinery repair and assembly sector in the southern and eastern regions of ireland, with extremely negative consequences for the whole area. the specific skills and low level of education make it difficult for dismissed workers to find new employment. the egf will thus benefit 149 redundant workers who will receive vocational guidance, further training, self-employment assistance and higher education, and 200 young people who are not in employment or training will also benefit from the same measures.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is an instrument through which the european union provides additional support to workers who have been affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade flows and helps them to reintegrate into the labour market. the application for a financial contribution submitted by ireland to assist lufthansa technik in the redundancies of 424 workers does not fulfil certain eligibility criteria but falls within the category of exceptional circumstances which allow the mobilisation of the egf, due to the serious impact on employment and the regional economy. the redundancies in this company were the result of major structural changes in world trade flows due to globalisation, while the closure of the company was the result of changes in eu trade resulting from the technological transition to the production of the new generation of aircraft and their components, which affected the market fundamentals of the company's core business model. the redundancies have had a serious negative impact on the southern and eastern ireland region, which is characterised by considerable local deprivation and poverty and where the redundant workforce has specific skills that are difficult to apply in other sectors. as the package of co-financed services covers three important areas: career guidance and career planning, training and further education, and assistance for businesses and the self-employed, i supported the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for lufthansa technik - ireland, in connection with the dismissal of a total of 424 redundant workers at lufthansa technik airmotive ireland ltd and two suppliers in ireland. the redundancies in the machinery repair and assembly sector in ireland are linked to major structural changes in world trade flows due to globalisation. i also supported the resolution because the workforce in this sector has some very specific skills and knowledge that are difficult to apply in other sectors, and therefore workers have difficulty finding new employment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in the case of lufthansa technik airmotive ireland (ltai), as the dismissal of 424 workers at this company and at two of its suppliers in ireland and the closure of ltai are linked to major structural changes in world trade flows due to globalisation. the redundancies in the machinery repair and assembly sector in the south and east of ireland are largely due to the switch to the production of the next generation of aircraft and to changes in the locations of global aircraft production. western european and american carriers are sending some planes to china for major maintenance work, and even lufthansa has decided to do work on one type of airbus in the philippines. in this sector, workers have specific skills and knowledge that are difficult to apply in other sectors, and therefore find it difficult to find new employment. in some areas where ltai workers reside, unemployment rates are around 23%, low levels of education and lack of vocational qualifications are common, and considerable local deprivation and poverty are also evident. ireland will offer assistance co-financed by the egf to 250 beneficiaries, in addition to 200 under 25 who are not in employment, education or training (neets).
in writing. ‒ i have approved the european commission's proposal for additional macro-financial assistance to ukraine of eur 1.8 billion. i think it is important that the proposal is approved, because it is an important step towards the rapid disbursement of medium-term loans this year and next. the approval of the funds confirms the eu's commitment to continue helping the country, which has been hit by a deep recession and conflict in the east of the country. the new macro-financial assistance complements the eu's existing contributions in the form of humanitarian and technical assistance and project support. i think that aid and solidarity to ukraine are very important, but we cannot give them just like that. we must demand the consistent implementation of reforms in the country in the field of tax policy and in the fight against corruption. only then will ukraine be able to achieve long-term stability and development. in addition, it is necessary to ensure and implement controls to ensure that the funds allocated reach the right hands and are used consistently and for the purposes of reforms and improvement of the situation in the country. the fact is that the intended aid must primarily benefit the population of the country, as the economy is currently collapsing in ukraine and people are emigrating, which is unacceptable. there is a need to simplify procedures and to achieve more efficient management of the aid programme. ukraine is in every respect a country that desperately needs this assistance and needs to be granted it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council providing macro-financial assistance to ukraine of up to eur 1.8 billion, thereby supporting ukraine's economic stabilisation and comprehensive reform agenda. ukraine is in a difficult balance of payments and liquidity situation, which is a consequence of the violation of ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity and the resulting military conflict. i also supported the resolution because it stipulates that ukraine respects effective democratic mechanisms, including a multi-party parliamentary system, the rule of law and ensures respect for human rights as a precondition for the granting of the union's macro-financial assistance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council providing macro-financial assistance to ukraine, as the ukrainian economy is experiencing a crisis resulting from long-standing structural problems, triggered by the armed conflict in the eastern regions and the illegal annexation of crimea by russia. the recession and capital flight are greater than expected, there's been a devaluation of the currency and a depletion of international reserves. the commission has also provided information on the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to ukraine. in january 2015, the european parliament welcomed the commission's proposal to increase macro-financial assistance to ukraine by eur 1,8 billion and invited it to prepare an aid plan, and we have now approved the disbursement of this assistance. by providing the largest ever amount of aid to a non-eu country, europe has shown its unity in support of ukraine, which is fighting not just for its security but for the security of the eu as a whole and for the values of democracy, and it is right that the eu should help it to the best of its ability. the aid scheme will also contribute to strengthening the ukrainian government's commitments to economic reforms through conditionality. the european parliament thus continues to support ukraine, an associated partner of the european union, in its economic and political stabilisation and reforms.
in writing. ‒ in the european union, tax fraud and tax avoidance are estimated to cost €1 billion in lost tax revenues each year. this loss places a greater burden on european taxpayers and consequently less public and private funds are available for investment at a time when the commission is focusing on jobs, growth and investment. the annual report on taxation welcomes the automatic exchange of information agreement and calls for the final elimination of banking secrecy and the conclusion of tax treaties with third countries by the end of june 2015. it also rightly emphasises that taxes must be paid where public services are used and that a common approach at european and global level must be promoted, which will contribute to a more effective fight against tax fraud, tax evasion and tax avoidance. the report welcomes the tripartite agreement on a directive on the prevention of money laundering, which provides greater transparency for member states through unrestricted access to beneficial ownership information, and calls on the commission to examine possible solutions to introduce a minimum corporate tax rate to limit harmful competition in the tax field. on the basis of the above, and as a balanced and growth-oriented tax system is essential to generate sustainable growth, i supported the annual report on taxation.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the annual tax report, which recalls that a common approach contributes to a more effective fight against tax fraud and evasion and tax avoidance, aggressive tax planning and tax havens, and to a better framework for the proper functioning of the single market based on effective tax policy legislation. in the eu, tax fraud and tax evasion are estimated to cost €1 billion in lost tax revenues each year, which is far too much and a serious threat to the efficiency and integrity of the eu's tax systems. i also supported the resolution because it stresses the need to maintain healthy and transparent competition between member states in the tax area, which will promote growth and employment and enable the european banking sector to remain competitive in the world, thereby preventing tax evasion from the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the annual tax report report because it advocates a tax policy that promotes transparency, fairness and good governance, reduces the administrative burden on smes and micro-enterprises, removes tax obstacles to cross-border activities and is an effective instrument for promoting sustainable growth and social justice. tax fraud and tax evasion in the eu is estimated to cost €1 billion in lost tax revenues each year, and this loss seriously threatens the efficiency and fairness of eu tax systems by increasing the tax burden on honest citizens and businesses. the loss of tax revenue means that less public funds are available for investment and, consequently, it is not possible to stimulate as much additional private investment. tax policy can be a tool for deepening economic and monetary union, while respecting the rights of member states to design tax systems adapted to the specific characteristics of their economies, as laid down in the treaties. it is good that the report mentions initiatives that can ensure legal certainty, boost cross-border trade, promote the full potential of the single market and increase growth and employment.
so i think that it is clear from today's debate that the proposal to amend the multiannual financial framework will be approved. and i think the commission's proposal to reallocate a large part of the appropriations directly in 2015 is to be supported, with the risks of errors and irregularities being taken into account. and i have to say that in its multiannual audits, the court of auditors points out errors, irregularities in the use of european funds. but worse than a mistake is not spending european funds at all, either because of delays or because of the complexity of the rules. the commission therefore naturally faces a major challenge in delivering on its promises to act on the principle of a targeted budget. this, of course, also requires simplifying the rules so that we no longer deal only with bureaucracy but also with the content of projects. and of course we need to find the reasons for the delays and start to address the causes of the delays and address them, not just the consequences.
(microphone off) ...victims of the armenian genocide and violence against other peoples at the end of the ottoman empire. this resolution does not change history, but it is a response to it in accordance with our values, principles and positive european experience of reconciliation. the consequences of acts of genocide which seriously offend the dignity of individuals and of entire nations can only be successfully tackled with truthfulness, piety, justice and reconciliation. i support the resolution as a contribution to strengthening the process of reconciliation between armenia and turkey, which is necessary in the interests of peace and good neighbourliness to overcome a period of pain and strained relations.
on behalf of the s&d group. i have listened to you very carefully, dear colleagues. people with disabilities we are all aware are one of the most vulnerable groups of individuals, especially when it comes to their integration into the labour market and society in general. their often particularly difficult situation is often forgotten and not realized. their daily routines are often accompanied by prejudices and stereotypes, they often face discrimination or find themselves in a situation of inequality, as you yourself have pointed out. unfortunately, this is also the situation faced by staff in our institutions the institutions of the european union. and this initiative in this debate today actually came out of a concrete case. i'm very glad that we have this opportunity today to share our facts with you. you mentioned the employment quotas yourself, your honor. these are one of the most effective ways of integrating people with special needs into the labour market. such arrangements are already in place in most member states of the european union. indeed, the data show that unemployment among people with special needs is a very serious problem in some parts of europe. i welcome your statement and your recognition that we need to do more for people with special needs. you've also partially explained to me what the european commission does. but i would also like to invite you to consider concrete legislative solutions, including the introduction of employment quotas, both throughout the european union and within the european union institutions. and so i conclude that if we really want to make change, we have to start with ourselves.
employment in the european union is a challenge for all categories of people: for the young, for the elderly and, of course, for the disabled. and as a special group and as a vulnerable group, of course, we have to pay special attention to this group. there are, as we all know, different ways of doing this, and one of the ways is the quota system. but there are others that are equally important, such as job adaptation, such as education and training. but most countries in the european union use the quota system as a way of dealing with this problem, or with the increased employment of disabled people, and so it is quite appropriate and logical to ask why this is not the case in the european institutions. in our country, in my country, slovenia, we have had a quota system for many years, but it has not produced the expected results. we need to improve it. and of course i would not want, i would not want employers to see the quota system as a burden, or worse, not as a burden, but as a way of obtaining certain funds and subsidies. we will only achieve our goal and that of the european institutions if the employment of disabled people is a matter of course and not the result of binding regulations. and of course, it's important to have as many disabled people as possible, not just employed, but in quality jobs, and to feel effective in this society.
in writing. disabled people are one of the most vulnerable groups in society and their integration into the labour market is a major challenge in the social and employment fields. as many as 21 of the 28 member states have already introduced and implemented mandatory quotas for the employment of disabled people in the public sector. the european institutions have not yet introduced these quotas, but they respect the provisions on non-discrimination. the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, which has been applicable to the eu institutions since 2011, prohibits, inter alia, discrimination on the grounds of disability in relation to all matters relating to any form of employment, including conditions of seeking, hiring and employment, retention of employment, promotion and safe and healthy working conditions. the oecd survey showed that in countries with employment quotas for disabled people, the unemployment rate among disabled people is lower than in countries without such quotas. furthermore, it would be easier in practice to implement employment quotas than to follow the principle of non-discrimination strictly. the question is whether the eu institutions, without mandatory quotas for the employment of disabled people, can effectively ensure equal treatment of disabled people, especially in recruitment procedures. some meps have already received complaints from citizens that, in particular, equal treatment for disabled people is not provided for in electoral procedures.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposed decision to allocate funds from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) of around eur 6 million to the french company mory-ducros sas, which had to be made redundant due to the deterioration of its economic situation in the road haulage sector. in fact, 2804 of the 4911 workers employed by the company lost their jobs. it was just one of a number of french companies that went bankrupt as a result of the reduction in margins for road hauliers from 2007 onwards. the egf will thus provide assistance to redundant workers, especially older workers who are more difficult to recruit and who are at risk of long-term unemployment and social exclusion. the egf will thus be used to the maximum extent to train workers for new jobs, and it is welcome that france has started to implement measures to assist workers made redundant before the egf application was submitted. this was done to help the workers soon after they had been laid off, thus alleviating the hardship they were in. of course, measures of a social nature will not be enough. the key is to create new jobs in sectors with higher added value, which will boost the struggling french economy. the juncker investment plan, which is about to be adopted, can undoubtedly play a major role in this.
in writing. the egf is the instrument through which the union provides support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade flows. the application submitted by france for a financial contribution from the egf to assist mory-ducros sas, which has made redundancies of 2513 workers, meets the eligibility criteria for this aid. the redundancies in this company are linked to the general decline in physical production in europe, which has reduced the amount of goods to be transported. this triggered a price war in the road freight sector, which led to lower margins and increasing losses. the egf will finance only one measure from the package of personalised services, namely counselling and guidance for redundant workers to ensure their early reintegration into the labour market. it is important that the implementation of the measure takes into account expected future developments on the labour market and the current trend towards a sustainable economy with efficient use of resources. since france started implementing the adapted measures the day after the positive assessment of the application for a financial contribution by the commission, well before the final decision on the granting of the egf support, in order to provide rapid assistance to the workers made redundant, it is important to support the proposal for a decision to mobilise the egf immediately.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund to help redundant workers at mory-ducros sas. globalisation has led to a decline in physical production in europe, which has reduced demand for road transport, led to price wars in the road freight sector and resulted in a wave of bankruptcies, including that of mory-ducros. i supported the report in particular because almost one fifth of the beneficiaries will be in the 55 to 64 age group. the unemployed in this age group often have considerable difficulty finding a new job and need help to prevent their long-term unemployment and social exclusion.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in the case of mory-ducros sas, as the bankruptcy of that company and the redundancies are directly linked to the global financial and economic crisis. the general decline in physical production in europe has led to a reduction in the amount of material to be transported by road, which has led to a steady decline in margins and losses in the road freight sector in france since 2007, followed by a wave of bankruptcies. at mory-ducros sas, 2513 workers were thus made redundant in 84 plants throughout mainland france. more than 17% of the beneficiaries are aged between 55 and 64 and participation in the proposed support measures will help them to avoid long-term unemployment and social exclusion. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is intended to help workers who have been affected by major structural changes in world trade patterns, by the global financial and economic crisis and by their reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. i was pleased to support both the draft council decision and the minor amendment proposed to the council by the european parliament, in the area of healthcare. it is one of the most important values in european culture, and one that has historically been regarded in europe as one of the most important achievements of progress: the access of all citizens to social and health care. equal access to health services for the entire population is one of the key building blocks of the welfare state. i voted in favour of the resolution on the establishment of a social protection committee, because it is a way of making a significant contribution to a more active monitoring of the economic and social situation of the population in each country and, through appropriate policies, of responding more rapidly to anomalies that arise.
in writing. report on the draft council decision establishing the social protection committee and repealing council decision 2004/689/ec. i welcome the draft council decision extending and specifying the mandate of the social protection committee of the spc, which operates within the epsco council. the spc employment committee was established in 2004 by council decision 2004/689/ec, which defined the institutions, main tasks and functioning of the committee. over the past decade, the committee's tasks have adapted to current developments in the union and are now focused mainly on advising ministers on employment outcomes in the context of the european semester. in doing so, it shall cooperate with other competent authorities and with the committees for social affairs and economic policy matters, such as the employment committee, the economic and financial committee and the economic policy committee. since the draft council decision reflects well the role of the social protection committee in the context of the european semester, which is intended, in particular, to monitor the social situation and the development of social protection policies in the member states and the union and to promote the exchange of information, experience and good practice between member states, i voted in favour of the report on the draft decision.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the draft council decision establishing the social protection committee and repealing decision 2004/689/ec, as the competent parliamentary committee recommended that the council decision establishing the social protection committee be approved. this committee will have an advisory status and will ensure better cooperation between the member states and the commission in the field of social protection policies. the parliamentary committee recommended that the four main objectives set by the commission as part of the overall modernisation of social protection systems should be to ensure high quality and sustainable healthcare for all. these objectives also relate to sustainable pension systems, fair pay for work and the promotion of social inclusion, and their achievement requires ensuring better coordination of member states' employment, social and socio-economic policies.
in writing. report on the draft council decision establishing the employment committee and repealing council decision 2000/98/ec. i welcome the draft council decision extending and specifying the mandate of the employment committee of emco, which operates within the epsco council. as the draft council decision reflects well the role of the employment committee in the context of the european semester, i voted in favour of the report on the draft decision. the emco employment committee was established in 2000 by council decision 2000/98/ec, which defined the institutions, main tasks and functioning of the committee. over the past 14 years, the committee's tasks have adapted to current developments in the union and are now mainly focused on advising ministers on the employment performance of the european semester (evaluation of the european employment guidelines, joint employment report, epsco conclusions on the annual growth survey, etc.), preparing member state-specific recommendations on employment and assessing member states' progress in implementing these recommendations, preparing a horizontal opinion on national reform programmes and similar tasks. in order to monitor effectively the employment situation in the member states and in the union, the committee should, in particular, promote the objective of high employment in the formulation and implementation of policies and contribute to the process of adopting the broad economic guidelines in order to ensure their consistency with the employment guidelines.
in writing. i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision establishing the employment committee and repealing decision 2000/98/ec, following a recommendation from the competent parliamentary committee. the council wants to set up an advisory committee on employment to ensure better coordination between member states on employment and labour market policies. the committee is intended to ensure that the european employment strategy, the coordination of macroeconomic policies and economic reforms are designed and implemented in a consistent manner and in cooperation with each other in the member states. each member state and the european commission are to appoint two members of the committee for a period of two years, renewable once. the committee should elect its chairman from among the members appointed by the member states. the committee is to monitor developments in employment conditions and employment policies in the member states and the eu, consult the social partners and cooperate with other bodies and committees dealing with social and economic policy issues. it should promote the integration of the objective of a high level of employment into the formulation and implementation of eu policies and activities and contribute to all aspects of the european semester within its mandate.
in writing. ‒ supporting this draft council regulation amending the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework was the only logical move by meps to ensure that certain funds already committed but not spent in 2014 were properly used in the same areas as they were originally intended. in fact, such restrictions would encourage consumers in the future to rush into their programmes for fear of losing funds due to short deadlines, while at the same time making even more errors and superficiality. it is therefore appropriate that where there are already sectoral approvals, there are no such strict limits in terms of year. that's why i'm supporting this change, the financial re-allocation.
in writing. due to the late agreement on the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework, many legal acts containing provisions for the implementation of the funds were adopted only in december 2013. subsequently, a large number of implementing and delegated acts were adopted for each fund in 2014, which meant that a number of programmes under shared management could not be adopted in that year. on the one hand, the unaccepted programmes include those which were ready for adoption at the end of 2014 but could not be formally adopted due to lack of time. for these programmes, commitments from 2014 may be automatically carried over to 2015. appropriations which were neither used up in 2014 nor allowed to be carried over (inadequate allocation to programmes) should be reallocated to future years by revising the ceilings of the multiannual financial framework, which is a precondition for the adoption of programmes and the triggering of the corresponding budgetary commitments and payments of initial pre-financing. in 2014, commitments for programmes under shared management amounted to eur 21 billion. as the commission proposes to reallocate a large part of these appropriations directly to 2015 in order to ensure the planned level of investment in growth and jobs, i supported the draft recommendation on the amendment of the regulation.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation on the draft council order amending the mff regulation for the period 2014-2020 to carry over unused allocations for a whole range of funds from 2014 to subsequent years. as the cohesion policy regulations for the period 2014-2020 were adopted very late, the adoption of operational programmes was delayed and it was not possible to spend funds in 2014. without the regulation change, the funds would be lost and we can't afford that. this would mean that the european funds, including the structural funds, the cohesion fund and the european agricultural fund for rural development, would have fewer resources and would consequently have a harder time achieving the european objectives they set themselves.
in writing. i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council regulation amending regulation (eu, euratom) no 1311/2013 on the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 as this is the only way to avoid negative consequences for regions, cities and european citizens. large delays have already occurred in the new cohesion policy programming period and further delays need to be avoided. structural and investment funds are essential for eu investment policy, growth and job creation, so it is important that resources are used as quickly and efficiently as possible. due to delays in the adoption of the 2014-2020 cohesion policy regulations, it was not possible to adopt all operational programmes in a timely manner. by the end of 2014, only 39% of eu programmes had been adopted. the adoption of the remaining programmes was postponed, either by transfer of funds or by amendment of the multiannual financial framework (mff). the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. for all other programmes (47% of eu programmes), however, an amendment of the mff and a carry-over to subsequent years is required in order not to lose the 2014 appropriations.
in writing. ‒ my support for the resolution on the centenary of the armenian genocide is based on the fact that historical events, whether tragic or joyous, should be recognised and learnt from. it is necessary to be aware of our mistakes or those of our ancestors and to draw from them the energy to cooperate, not to divide. the massacre of over one and a half million armenians in the ottoman empire during world war i is one of the most horrific genocides in human history. genocide is a despicable act that deserves all condemnation, regardless of the time or period in which it took place. any deliberate and intentional killing of an ethnic minority is incompatible with humanity and the ethos by which we are obliged to live, and therefore the denial and relativisation of such acts must also be condemned. a glimmer of optimism about the horrors mentioned, however, can be detected in the more conciliatory words of the turkish head of state. but the goal will be achieved when the genocide is actually acknowledged. it will make it easier to put the dark history behind us and to focus on the path of reconciliation and cooperation. that this is possible is shown by the example of the founders of a united europe, who almost 70 years ago began to build the story of which we are now a part. i believe the turks and the armenians are capable of this!
in writing. ‒ the year 2015 marks the centenary of the armenian genocide, which took place in the ottoman empire and ended the lives of one and a half million innocent armenians. i support the growing number of member states which recognise and condemn this genocide, which is one of the greatest crimes against humanity in europe. and it is right that the european parliament has also publicly condemned the armenian genocide, thus expressing its support for the fight against human rights violations. it is important to remember and record difficult events from the past, as this makes us aware of the negative effects of such actions and, consequently, increases the effort to prevent similar events in the future. we cannot and must not allow a crime of this magnitude to be repeated at any time in the future. for this reason, i support the idea of establishing an international day of remembrance of the genocide, dedicated to the memory of the fundamental rights of all the peoples of the world, that is, to live in peace and dignity. it is important to prevent and punish in a timely manner any acts that suggest genocide or violations of human rights. i strongly condemn violence against humanity and violations of human rights in any form, and i supported and voted for the resolution to be adopted by the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the european commemoration of the 100th anniversary of the armenian genocide. i support the designation of a european day of remembrance of the genocide, the purpose of which is to further remind all people and nations of the world of their right to peace and dignity. i also join the commemoration of the 100th anniversary of the armenian genocide in the spirit of european brotherhood, solidarity and justice.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a european parliament resolution on the centenary of the armenian genocide because it is of the utmost importance that we preserve the memory of the past and because there can be no reconciliation without truth and memory. the european parliament already recognised in its resolution of 18 june 1987 that the tragic events against the armenians in the ottoman empire in 1915-1917 constituted genocide as defined by the 1948 convention on the prevention and punishment of the crime of genocide. one of the main reasons for european integration is the desire to prevent war and crimes against humanity in europe. the timely prevention and effective punishment of genocide and crimes against humanity must be among the main priorities of the international community and the european union.
in writing. ‒ the roma are one of the largest ethnic groups in europe, their home for centuries, and there is virtually no country where they are not settled. but despite their long-term residence in europe, roma are unfortunately marginalized everywhere. they are discriminated against and often denied equal rights and equal treatment by the majority of the population. the roma problem is multi-layered and, in my view, cannot be solved from the top down. yes, there is a need for goals and direction to achieve equality, but problems must be solved where they arise - in the local communities where roma are concentrated. through tolerant dialogue and a smart approach, roma inclusion in society can be achieved, living conditions worthy of human dignity can be created and discrimination against the roma population can be reduced. i know from my own experience that this is a long and difficult process, but with the right approach, it's doable. i support the motion for a resolution which calls, among other things, for the recognition of the genocide of the roma during the second world war. at the same time, i call on the member states to address the roma problem with the utmost respect for the principle of subsidiarity. states must provide support to municipalities in dealing with such problems and conduct a patient dialogue with all stakeholders. only in this way will it be possible to ensure the long-term integration of roma into society and to reduce discrimination against them.
in writing. ‒ there are currently around 12 million roma living in europe, half of them in the eu member states. the roma are the largest ethnic group in europe, and their foundation is respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality and human rights, but we are faced with a strong anti-roma sentiment, which is the main cause of increasing discrimination and marginalisation of roma. modern society is thus still unable to recognise the rights of minorities and to provide adequate mechanisms for the enforcement of these rights! this is in clear contradiction with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, which promotes smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. the 2014-2020 financial framework also provides for the inclusion of marginalised communities in all phases and levels of eu funding. after speaking to key stakeholders in the field of cohesion policy, i have noticed that the roma issue is still not receiving enough attention. strategic approaches to improve their inclusion are the exception rather than the rule, and municipalities across europe are not providing enough support for projects, especially in the context of cohesion policy, that would improve the situation of the roma community. member states have the tools to change the situation of marginalised communities, including through the formal recognition of the genocide during the second world war and other forms of violence against roma, which this motion for a resolution calls on them to do.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the international roma day racial hatred against roma in europe and the recognition by the eu of a day of remembrance for the genocide of roma during the second world war. racial hatred against the roma, the largest ethnic minority in europe, is a specific type of racism based on racial superiority, a form of dehumanization and institutional racism. i supported the motion for a resolution because i am convinced that racism against the roma must be combated at all levels and by all means possible. i also support a special european day, called the european roma holocaust remembrance day, which will be dedicated to commemorating the victims of the genocide of roma during the second world war.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft resolution on the international roma day (on racial hatred against the roma in europe and the recognition by the eu of the roma genocide memorial day during the second world war) because commemorating crimes against humanity and serious human rights violations is essential to strengthen the efforts for peace, reconciliation, democracy and human rights in europe. during the second world war, at least 500,000 roma were killed, in some countries over 80% of the roma population. in the special section of auschwitz-birkenau reserved for roma, at least 23,000 roma died in gas chambers. on the night of august 2 to 3, 1944, 2,897 roma were killed, mostly women, children and the elderly. but it was not only the nazis who committed crimes against the roma, but also the fascists who had concentration camps for roma in italy, and stalin who had roma families killed in the 1930s from leningrad to moldova. in slovenia, too, several hundred roma were killed during the war, most by partisans led by the communist revolutionary movement and the rest by nazi and fascist authorities. only totalitarian regimes and powers have carried out genocide against roma. we must remain committed to the memory of the victims so that the horrors of our half-past history will never be repeated.
so, road safety is very important, and the number of road accidents per year... definitely too many accidents for me. as we heard, we're talking about 26,000 people a year. however, it should be stressed that more needs to be done in terms of prevention alone. and the fact is that the number of road deaths would be reduced by an average speed limit of six miles per hour. there is certainly more to be done in the field of prevention, including raising awareness of the importance of the so-called sober driver. it is true that this system we are voting on, the so-called ecall system, will not in itself reduce the number of road accidents, but it will certainly reduce the consequences and, above all, save the victims. however, there is probably still room for many compromises in terms of personal data protection.
i myself, of course, agree that a resolution on... alcohol abuse in particular should also be adopted at european level. we've heard a lot of data today and a lot of information about the negative effects of alcohol. but i think that when the commission is thinking about a strategy, it is important to pay particular attention to the strategy, to the ways in which the strategy will be directed towards raising awareness, towards informing people, in order to protect the most vulnerable groups, as we have heard many times today: pregnant women, children, minors. above all, we must be careful not to interfere with this alcohol restriction in a way that is detrimental to the industry itself, to the economy itself and, of course, to job losses. but there is also the matter of being alert to those who advertise alcohol and taking appropriate action.
i too find this multiannual plan for the baltic sea extremely... extremely important, especially if it follows scientific findings, evidence and, of course, advice. i think it can be a good example of how to ensure sustainable fishing, how to protect the environment and how to prevent overfishing. and i think that's what needs to be added: it's not just overfishing that's threatening fish, of course, it's pollution that's threatening fish. pollution caused by humans. and this example of this multiannual plan can also be an example of good practice for other seas, and if i mention only the adriatic sea, as has been said, there will also be certain measures needed. above all, to prohibit or restrict any extraction of oil in the adriatic sea as a closed sea, because this could seriously endanger fisheries on a permanent basis and if we make a mistake here, then there will be nothing to catch and nothing to plan.
these are regulations whose objective is primarily economic, environmental and social, but which in fact are not as clearly defined in this particular case as the commission claims. sometimes these rules seem to be a little out of touch with reality, and the question is how realistically they can be implemented. there is a risk that these rules may cause more harm than good to the essential elements for which they were established. and, commissioner, you talked about working with industry and inspection, you talked about control. however, there is also a need to talk to fishermen, to carry out analyses, to collect information, to plan in a way that also allows sustainable fishing, and therefore i need to reconsider the content of these regulations.
so a new annual report by the european food safety authority warns of high levels of various types of pesticides in food. and the results of control activities in the eu member states, iceland and norway, showed that as many as 685 different types of pesticides were found in just under 81,000 analysed samples of processed and unprocessed food. 27.3% of the analysed fruit and vegetables contained more than one type of pesticide, with the highest proportion of pesticide types found in strawberries, peaches, apples and lettuce. in fact, one out of every eight cans of strawberries contains residues of more than six different pesticides. it is important to emphasise that the current dietary standards are considered by the agency to be insufficient to protect consumers from toxic mixtures that are not safe and therefore this exposure can have a number of effects, including negative effects, on the health of consumers and should be ended.
i myself support this compromise proposal, which responds to the problem that arose with the over-ambitious target, where we saw that there were negative consequences in terms of the use of agricultural land and, indirectly, the increase in food prices. and it's only right that we take some time to think about it. it is also right that in adopting the energy concept, or energy union, we really emphasise the objective we have set ourselves, namely that energy saving is the first source of energy. and i think that the transportation sector, where we need these biofuels, is where we have the greatest potential and where we have the greatest problems with the targets. it is also important from the point of view of technological development... i think that in the way that it is necessary, and this proposal will encourage, technological thinking in the field of biofuels, that it is also necessary to have technological thinking in the field of electric car technologies. because i'm convinced that if we make great progress there, we'll be able to make that energy savings by using less fossil fuels and using more electricity in transportation.
first of all, of course, i would like to congratulate mrs auken on her persistence and thoroughness in this report and, of course, on the excellent report. plastic bags are, of course, a great distraction for consumers and, on the other hand, a great advertising space for merchants. of course, therefore, these measures provided for in the directives are likely to be a little more difficult to achieve in the directive's objectives than we think. but first, there's something you need to know. if people and consumers knew the consequences of discarded plastic, they would certainly act differently. so, of course, we need to tell people the truth about plastic, not the plastic truth. i think the numbers are frightening. if 90 percent of the bags are used only once, that means that the waste is just accumulating and we are actually digging into the plastic. and each country can do the most by raising awareness, by convincing people of the environmental harm of plastic. i think that plastic can also be a material, a possibility for a circular economy, and i would of course recommend that the commission re-prioritize the circular economy project.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision authorising member states to become, in the interest of the european union, parties to the international maritime organisation's (imo) convention on standards of training, certification and watchkeeping for personnel on fishing vessels (stcw-f), which aims to ensure that personnel on fishing vessels are qualified and able to work, thereby minimising the potential risk to life at sea and to the marine environment during activities on board fishing vessels. the convention requires that personnel have a minimum of knowledge in specific areas and a minimum of experience of working on board a ship. the convention can only be ratified by member states, which need the mandate of the european union to ratify. eu decisions on the recognition of regulated professions exercised by eu citizens on board fishing vessels affect the exercise of the european union's exclusive competence in this area. the proposed decision thus seeks to encourage member states to take all necessary measures to ratify the convention without delay. the provisions of the convention apply only to personnel working on ships of 24 metres in length or more, although the majority of accidents at sea occur on shorter vessels. the european parliament therefore proposes to extend the scope of the convention or at least to adopt rules at european union level for vessels of less than 24 metres.
in writing. ‒ due to the late agreement on the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework, many legal acts containing provisions for the implementation of the funds were adopted only in december 2013. subsequently, a large number of implementing and delegated acts were adopted for each fund in 2014. therefore, a number of programmes under shared management could not be adopted in 2014. the appropriations which were neither used up in 2014 nor allowed to be carried over will have to be reallocated to future years by revising the ceilings of the multiannual financial framework. in addition to the revision of the ceilings of the multiannual financial framework, an amendment to the budget concerning the commitment appropriations for 2015 had to be adopted. both the audit and the amendment of the budget are preconditions for the adoption of programmes triggering budgetary commitments and the payment of initial pre-financing. in 2014, commitments for programmes under shared management amounted to eur 21 billion. the draft amending budget no 2/2015 provides for the transfer of a large part of these appropriations directly to 2015 in order to maintain the level of investment in growth and jobs and to ensure the earliest possible payment of debts from the 2007-2013 period, and i therefore supported this proposal in the vote.
in writing. ‒ for the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 2/2015 of the european union for the financial year 2015, section iii commission i voted because draft amending budget no 2/2015 relates to the proposal for a council regulation amending the mff regulation (com (2015) 0015), and because article 19 of the mff regulation allows for the revision of this framework in the event of late adoption of rules or programmes under shared management to carry over to the following years the appropriations not used up in 2014. it is important for european citizens and economies in the member states that unused appropriations for 2014 can be carried over to subsequent years, thus contributing to job creation and growth. by carrying over to the 2015 budget year, to the extent possible, the unused appropriations for 2014, we will accelerate the implementation of cohesion policy and reduce the accumulation of payments at the end of the mff.
in writing. ‒ road safety is very important and the number of road accidents on an annual basis still takes too many lives. this figure amounts to 26,000 deaths annually in the eu. more needs to be done on prevention and the fact is that road fatalities could be reduced by lowering the average speed limit by 10 km/h. prevention must also include further awareness raising and actions in the field of the so-called 'sober driver'. it is true that the system we are voting on will not in itself reduce the number of road accidents, but it will certainly reduce the consequences and, above all, help to save those involved in road accidents. however, there is likely to be room for many compromises in the implementation of this system with regard to the protection of personal data. i see the problem with constant monitoring and the driver's movements by the device. given the current widespread concern about the mass surveillance of eu citizens, this is one way to monitor them at all times and everywhere. for the reasons set out above, i voted against the recommendation for a second reading on the e-call system.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation for a council position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on type-approval requirements for the deployment of the ecall in-vehicle system as a 112 service. almost 26 000 people die each year in road accidents in the member states. the ecall system will not reduce the number of road accidents, but it will make a significant contribution to saving lives. the system will allow for a faster and more efficient response by the emergency services. it is safe, free and will work in all member states. i also support the introduction of ecall for all new passenger cars and vans because it will ensure adequate protection of personal data, as data will not be stored for longer than strictly necessary.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this regulation concerning ʽecallʼ, an eu-wide emergency call system, because it will substantially contribute to the commissionʼs road safety programme (2011-2020) and will help decrease road deaths as well as facilitate the work of rescue teams and firefighters. the ʽecallʼ system will assist in the immediate rescue of passengers in road accidents. the system will be activated in the event of a car accident by automatically calling the 112 european emergency phone number, and all the necessary details, such as the exact location of the vehicle, will be transferred to the emergency call centre, for the immediate rescue of the passengers.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the proposal for a second reading of article 6 (under § 3) of the recommendation on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on type-approval requirements for the introduction of the e-call system. article 6 proposed that the e-call system be set up in such a way that it could be switched off manually by car users. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament and the council, including the provision of information on the rights and obligations of the union institutions and bodies. last year alone, 25,700 people died in road accidents in the eu. the ecall system will use the technology of the european emergency service (ees) 112 to automatically alert rescuers in the event of a major accident, thus increasing their efficiency, improving injury care and saving lives. in the event of a major accident, sensors in the vehicle will be activated, which will be connected to the appropriate call centre and will send: the location of the vehicle, the exact time, the direction in which the vehicle is facing, the number of passengers, etc. the system will be free, secure and operational in all member states and, very importantly, will respect data protection rules.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposed compromise proposal for a directive because i think it addresses the problem of the over-ambitious target on biofuels set years ago. the negative consequences of such a policy have been shown in the excessive use of agricultural land for biofuel production, which has indirectly increased the price of food. it's only right that we take some time to think about it. it is also right that in adopting the eu's energy concept, or energy union, we really emphasise the objective we have set ourselves: energy saving is the most important source of energy. the greatest reserves and opportunities to pursue this objective are, in my view, found in transport, where biofuels are used to the greatest extent. in addition, transport is the sector where we have the greatest difficulty in meeting our environmental objectives. the adopted directive will also, in my view, give rise to technological reflection on the feasibility of the long-term use of biofuels in transport. the focus should be shifted to developing technologies that will make it cheaper to produce electric vehicles and thus make them affordable for the widest possible range of the population. if more concrete steps are taken in this area, this will have a decisive impact on the dependence of transport on fossil fuels, enormous energy savings and a cleaner environment.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation on the council position at first reading with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the quality of petrol and diesel fuels and amending the directive on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources. the proposal proposes to limit the production of biofuels from crops that are otherwise intended for food and to accelerate the transition to alternative sources such as waste and seaweed. the agreement reached between the commission, the european parliament and the council on the share of biofuels means a drastic reduction in the use of first generation biofuels. the debate showed that we need to focus on second-generation biofuels in the future. we must encourage and support research and development in this area. i support the directive because it wants to start a new policy on biofuels, it wants to turn the page in the fight against co2 emissions. we also need to develop renewable energy sources in the transport sector. this is more urgent today than ever before.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the eu final compromise on the biofuels directive. i supported this draft directive since it will accelerate the necessary transition from conventional biofuels to ʽsecond generationʼ biofuels: this will entail a substantial reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. another positive aspect of the directive is that it will provide a clearer legislative framework for the production of all biofuels and ensure that existing investments in the sector are protected. parliament should also make sure that in the near future ʽadvancedʼ biofuels are produced on a larger scale in the eu, in order to achieve further decreases in co2 emissions.
mr president, i was very hesitant about voting on this point because it is a question of how much of the plastic bags restriction should be dealt with by the european union or how much, on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity, should remain the responsibility of the individual national states. i don't deny that this is an extremely beneficial environmental goal. finally, i supported this compromise solution, which is much more friendly to individual sovereign states and allows states to choose their own measures that will lead to a reduction in the consumption of lightweight plastic shopping bags. it's certainly a better solution than the original proposal which required states to charge for shopping bags, which i think is really something that we as the european union should not be imposing on states in this way. rather, we should give them general goals and general visions of where we want to go. that is the proposal for me, which, as i said, allows for a solution for the nation states. that's why i voted for the motion.
i myself support such a report because the plastic bags we have in europe by the millions are a major polluter. i like that it's... it's a move that goes in the direction of allowing countries, under the principle of subsidiarity, to decide for themselves how to reduce the bags in circulation. but they have clear targets, clear targets, from the european side for 2019 and also for 2025. i certainly support that if... if these thresholds are not met, the european parliament, the european commission, can take some stronger action. and at this point, i think that this is the right thing to do, for countries to choose their own path to reduce the number of plastic bags.
in writing. ‒ the new rules require member states to take measures to drastically reduce the consumption of single-use plastic bags. plastic bags are a major consumer consideration, with the average european consuming 175 single-use bags a year. the numbers are horrifying! if 90 percent of the bags are actually used only once, that means that the waste is just accumulating and we're actually digging into the plastic. each country can do the most to raise awareness and persuade people about the harmful effects of plastic on the environment. good examples are ireland, which reduced the use of bags by 94% with the introduction of the bags, and italy, which has already banned the use of single-use bags. the bags payable measure is already in place in many countries and needs to be introduced everywhere, from large supermarkets to small shops. the new rules will drastically reduce the use of plastic bags, as they aim to reduce consumption to 40 bags per capita by 2025, and represent a historic breakthrough in tackling the problem of plastic waste in our environment and reducing waste in general, which is why i supported the proposal for a directive.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation for a council position at first reading with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending the directive on the reduction of the consumption of lightweight plastic carrier bags. each year, the citizens of the european union use 100 billion plastic carrier bags. of that, 8 billion are left in nature or in waste. plastic bags are the source of many environmental problems. they have a particularly negative impact on the oceans. i also support the directive because it aims to give member states the tools to reduce the amount of such waste. we're talking about a dramatic reduction in the amount of plastic bags. if we can achieve that, then we've taken a big step forward.
in writing. ‒ europeans throw away a huge amount of almost unused plastic bags; according to statistics, an average european citizen wastes 200 plastic bags annually. i voted in favour of this report because it sets new binding targets to decrease the use of plastic bags in the eu by 80% by 2025. according to the new rules, member states will now have two options: to either reduce per-capita plastic bag use to 90 bags by 2019 and 40 bags by 2025, or to impose charges for all plastic bags by the end of 2018. these decisions are of significant global importance, since most of the hardly-used plastic bags end up polluting ocean waters worldwide. respecting the environment by introducing such measures is urgent if we want to ensure that future generations of europeans will enjoy a life without dramatic climatological phenomena taking place.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation on the council position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the monitoring, reporting and verification of carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport. maritime transport is a crucial transport for the world economy. more than 80% of goods are transported by ship, and this is also an energy-efficient transport, as we can transport goods with less co2 emissions compared to air and road transport. i also welcome this measure because it seeks to ensure that the new measures are cost-effective and that our companies do not become less competitive. this is because trade and transport are at risk of being shifted to less environmentally friendly means (such as lorries). but i warn you that we will have to be very strict in our monitoring and control, because that is a precondition for these measures to succeed.
in writing. ‒ maritime transport is currently the only transport mode that is excluded from the eu’s commitments to cut down greenhouse gas emissions. with the approval of this new regulation, which i voted in favour of, as of 2018 shipowners will have to monitor the co2 print of ships travelling in eu waters and report the information to the commission. the ships covered by the regulation are those above the threshold of 5 000 tons, which are responsible for 98% of emissions. the benefits for the shipping sector related to the introduction of these measures are threefold: 1) a higher level of transparency; 2) an incentive to adopt ʽcleanerʼ and more efficient technologies; 3) an incentive to reduce costs associated with fuel consumption.
in writing. ‒ the multiannual fisheries management plan is very important as it will regulate the different factors of fisheries in the eu. i would like to focus on sustainable fishing. this is crucial to ensure the fishing activity and the long-term viability of the fisheries sector. the integrated process of information gathering, analysis, planning and consultation with fishermen is important. only in this way can an environmentally friendly and sustainable fishing be ensured. i would also like to mention the importance of ecologically sustainable fisheries management. the latter is very important in order to reduce the impact of fishing on the marine environment, taking into account that a certain level of impact of fishing within reasonable limits is unavoidable. it is important to recognise that pollution, overfishing and unsustainable fishing practices have a major negative impact on fisheries. pollution has been shown to cause significant damage at different stages of the marine food chain, with serious consequences also for commercial species which therefore need to be protected. i therefore advocate fishing methods that respect the environment, while minimising the potential for overfishing by law, and also measures to be taken in the event that a fish species becomes endangered as a result of overfishing. for this reason, i supported the report and voted for its adoption by the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this regulation concerning the management of fish stocks in the baltic sea because guaranteeing sustainable fish stocks is essential, since fishing activities offer massive benefits to the eu, not only financial ones but also in terms of job creation. better management of the balticʼs wealth of fish species by establishing a new plan for larger stocks of some very popular table fishes, such as cod, herring and sprat, will bring us one step closer to implementation of the common fisheries policy. this regulation can also ensure the prosperity of local fishing companies, local economies and employment, as well as guaranteeing the ecological balance of the baltic seabed.
i supported this report, which provides for a relaxation of the rules on the obligations of fishermen when they land. this obligation is now set only for the year 2015. practice shows that there are also a number of problems in implementing this directive, and i agree that it will be necessary to be very careful when preparing the new document, which will be valid from 2015 onwards, and to follow and listen to the fishermen. in fishing countries such as slovenia, where we catch only a few hundred tonnes of sea fish a year, such regulations and rules in the fisheries sector become a heavy burden and also make fishing, which is also part of our tourist offer, largely impossible. therefore, great care should be taken with such regulations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulations (ec) no 850/98, (ec) no 2187/2005, (ec) no 1967/2006, (ec) no 1098/2007, (ec) no 254/2002, (ec) no 2347/2002 and (ec) no 1224/2009 and repealing regulation (ec) no 1434/98 as regards the landing obligation, as the reform of the common fisheries policy has brought about a substantial change in the rules in the fisheries sector. the commission has also proposed to amend the catch limits for the stock of bluefin tuna in the area of the north sea. since the landing obligation is contrary to many existing european regulations, a consolidating regulation is needed to amend those previous regulations and bring them into line with the cfp regulation. the current rules require fishermen to discard non-marketable catches.
in writing. ‒ for the recommendation on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the russian federation, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union, i voted in accordance with the recommendation of the competent parliamentary committee on foreign affairs, as set out in the report by mr gabrielius landsbergis, as parliament's consent was required for the conclusion of the protocol. in accordance with the act of accession, croatia is to accede to international agreements signed or concluded between the european union and its member states by means of protocols to those agreements. by council decision of 14 september 2012, the commission was authorised to open negotiations with the third countries concerned with a view to concluding the relevant protocols. following the successful conclusion of the negotiations with the russian federation, it was necessary to conclude, on behalf of the european union, a protocol including the republic of croatia as a party to the agreement and committing the eu to provide a verbatim version of the agreement in the new official language of the eu.
i would like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur, mrs łybacki, who has produced a very good report on the progress of the bologna process. and the way the report was written was very accurate. we also had other shadow reporters working on the text. i think it's right that we talk a little more about the bologna trial. there was not much room for that on monday night, and it is right that we can say a few words about that in the explanatory statement. the bologna reform is one of the most important reforms that has transcended the borders of the european union, and if we continue with it as we have started, i am convinced that in the future we will reduce the great gap between what the university produces today and what the market needs.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the review of the implementation of the bologna process. education is a public good. the bologna process was launched to improve the quality and recognition of qualifications and the duration of studies at european union level. the bologna process should also contribute to improving the employment situation of young people. today, we see that there are still many reserves in this area. there is still a large mismatch between the supply of skilled workers and demand in the eu. since the beginning of the crisis in 2008, the problem of youth unemployment has not improved much. i support the report on the review of the implementation of the bologna process as it calls on all stakeholders involved in the implementation of the bologna process to improve quality assurance in order to achieve the realisation of the european higher education area.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the follow-up to implementation of the bologna process because it represents a step forward towards the coordination of european education systems. it is crucial that all member states carry out the agreed reforms and ensure the compatibility of higher education systems in europe by guaranteeing the mutual recognition of academic degrees. education is key in fostering employment and social inclusion and it should remain one of the main priorities of eu member states; it is the only way that we can guarantee the prosperity of our societies. europe has historically been a pioneer in culture and education and should continue being a point of academic reference.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the review of the implementation of the bologna process, for which i was rapporteur for the group of the european people's party, as it constitutes the european parliament's contribution to the ministerial conference on the european higher education area, which will begin in a few days' time in yerevan. this conference will contribute to further consolidating the european higher education area and will also provide a critical review of the implementation of the bologna process for the period 2012-2015. the bologna reform can make a key contribution to the european union's youth employability and promote social cohesion, economic growth and a stronger commitment to a 'knowledge europe'. in 16 years, the single european higher education area has been created, and almost all universities have introduced a three-cycle system: undergraduate, master's and doctoral studies. the studies at different universities have become more compatible. but there is still much work to be done, because the bologna reform failed to achieve one of its most important objectives: increasing the employability of young people. at the end of 2014, there were still around 5 million unemployed under 25 in the eu, with a huge number of unfilled jobs. to improve this situation, higher education needs to be more flexible, to provide more useful skills and knowledge, and to take into account the needs of students, the labour market, the economy and society in general.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on european cinema in the digital age. films are cultural heritage. the european film industry urgently needs to be strengthened. the promotion of quality film production is particularly important for smaller eu member states, such as slovenia, with a small number of language speakers. we also need to develop quality financing instruments. in order to improve the distribution of european films on the european and international markets, public funding needs to be more balanced in order to increase support for development, promotion and international distribution.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report on european cinema in the digital age by the rapporteur, mr bogdan wente, because european films are of quality and represent an economic and cultural asset that contributes to economic growth and employment, helps to shape european identity, promotes european culture outside the eu, encourages cultural exchange and mutual understanding between citizens and contributes to the formation and development of critical thinking. nonetheless, non-european films are distributed in the eu on a much larger scale than european films. due to strong international competition and the fragmentation of the european film market, the promotion and distribution of european films in the eu is limited, audience levels are relatively low and problems also arise with exports outside the eu. i voted in favour of the report because it supports initiatives to help exploit the untapped potential of european films, such as the recent preparatory action for the mass subtitling of european works. this would improve the cross-border accessibility of european films within and outside the eu and would allow audiences across the union to access an ever-increasing range of films on an ever-increasing number of platforms. i am pleased that my addendum was included in the report, in which i stressed that the promotion of quality film production is particularly important for smaller eu member states with a small number of language speakers, such as slovenia.
i congratulate my colleague elisabeth köstinger on her excellent report and also on the adoption of this report, which i was happy to support. forestry, woodworking, is a very important industry, especially in countries like this, where we have a large area of forest. slovenia is one of the three countries with the highest forest cover, over 60%. more than 3.5 million jobs have been created in the forestry sector. forestry and wood are also one of the key renewable resources and contribute to the sustainable development of the republic... of all europe. it is also important that the strategy, in addition to forestry, also highlights the environmental note and also the importance of wood as a building material, namely wood as a material used in construction, industry and creates a whole range of new jobs.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the new eu forestry strategy. the european union is not responsible for the formulation of a common forestry policy, but it can influence the individual forestry policies of the member states through other policies. wood is a renewable energy source which is unfortunately not sufficiently exploited in europe. it is necessary to ensure the wise and sustainable use of wood. i also welcome the report on the new eu forestry strategy, as it stresses that the strategy should take into account that in some member states, including slovenia, forests cover more than half of the territory and that forests managed sustainably are of great importance for local and regional added value and are an important source of rural jobs, while also making a significant contribution to environmental protection.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report on the new eu forestry strategy (for forests and the forestry sector) because some union policies may affect individual member states' forestry policies, even though member states have the power to decide on forestry and forests themselves. although forests cover more than half the territory in some countries, urbanisation has left eu citizens with little awareness of forestry and its impact on health, climate, the environment and jobs. sustainably managed forests are of major importance at local, regional, european and international level and for rural employment, while also providing benefits for human health, and making a significant contribution to environmental and climate protection and biodiversity. wood is a renewable resource and its sustainable use can also be ensured through the exchange of expertise. cross-border information exchange is also important for raising awareness that only healthy and stable mountain forests can fully fulfil their protective function for people and nature, by stopping landslides and falling rocks and acting as natural flood protection. the forestry sector employs more than 3 million european citizens and its long-term competitiveness can only be achieved with a suitably qualified workforce.
in the fight against terrorism, our most powerful tools are awareness and education of young people. i agree that we need a coordinated and comprehensive response and that the protection of human rights must be at the heart of the security strategy. and also to make better use of the security policies that already exist. new measures such as pnr, smart borders, need to be thought through with clear data protection safeguards. but i miss the social aspect of strategy, the poverty, the inequality, the importance of family, school, peer pressure. they're the first to detect the first signs of radicalization. i also miss a strategy for returning young people who want to leave the islamic state in iraq and syria, and a clear analysis of the roots of the new phenomenon of european foreign fighters. last but not least, i would also ask the commission to put on the agenda the introduction of parental leave for minors travelling abroad.
first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, ms monica macova, on her work in this area. the proposal for a regulation establishing the european public prosecutor's office is historic in its own right. as has already been pointed out, half a billion euros in alleged fraud harming the financial interests of the european union, or rather the european taxpayers, is a huge amount of money. in addition, as we have heard, the member states are not responding sufficiently to these problems. less than one third of the one third of the olafa recommendations are converted into indictments. not to mention the convictions and the recoveries. in short, we must react. the establishment of the prosecution is the right way. if we establish it as a genuinely independent, powerful office that can investigate and prosecute without interference, then only if it exists as a sui generis will it be an important tool for protecting the financial interests of the european union. but if the council turns it into a body that operates solely on the basis of coordination, we will have another paper tiger, a dry branch in the structure of the european institutions. the european public prosecutor's office needs the highest degree of legitimacy. he will get that if the european parliament decides on its composition. the european union will have to define the boundaries between olaf, eurojust, europol and so on. it should also take a step forward in the completion of the legal framework for the functioning of the european courts. (the speaker agreed to accept the question raised by the blue card (rule 162 (8)).
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. a european public prosecutor's office, as a sui generis body, would therefore prevent exactly such cases where a member state does not respond well enough or does not investigate fraud. and we have said before that only 31 percent of all olafa recommendations are taken seriously by the member states and turned into indictments. the question is how many of these things get an epilogue. that percentage is much lower. this means that we seriously need one such body as the european public prosecutor's office.
we have discussed the alleged spying by the american nsa in europe many times and have already passed a resolution on this subject. i think this discussion today is completely unnecessary. with the number of hacks and attacks, a discussion of cybersecurity would be much more necessary. the authors of this item yesterday made a storm of water over alleged secret, and i quote, covert cooperation between german and american intelligence. what kind of a secret is that, if not a secret? and if, excuse me, this was about collecting data on certain companies in the arms industry, as the media has reported, i'm the first to support this kind of surveillance, because it's about the safety of all of us. your honour, it is clear that the protection of personal data is a core human right. so let's do something about it. accelerate the adoption of an eu data protection regulation to replace the different standards and rules in the 28 member states. and once the decree is passed, it will be required to be respected and enforced by all, at home and abroad. we also need to successfully conclude negotiations with the us on a framework agreement on data protection in the fight against crime, as this will be the only way to harmonise standards and define the modus operandi for handling data in these cases. let me conclude by expressing the conviction that no country, including the european union, can develop an effective security policy for the benefit of its citizens, including parliamentary oversight, without providing law enforcement authorities with the appropriate tools to act. and one last thing. i believe that the so-called big brother is neither german nor american.
i would like to thank mrs gräβle for her excellent report and, of course, my colleagues on the cont committee and, of course, the court of auditors. we have heard many times today that the court of auditors' report has made some important findings, in particular the fact that the error rate has been reduced, but not as much as we would like. but i think that the clear objective in the european parliament is to ensure that public funds are spent as correctly and transparently as possible. all of that is true, but for one of these joint ventures, we can't say that. it's about the iter project. i would like to emphasize the poor planning here. the projected cost of the project has increased from eur 5 billion in 2006 to eur 16 billion today. delays in achieving the objectives: the project is to be completed by 2027 instead of 2006. and some other examples of mismanagement, as also found by the court of auditors, notably the change in the scope of the project results and an unrealistic timetable. all of this, of course, convinces us that it would be irresponsible to grant the project a discharge for 2013. because if we were to grant a discharge, it would be in a way to ignore the effort and of course the findings of the court of auditors and also what we accepted at cont. and i sincerely hope that the members of this house will not give the bill a discharge.
in writing. youth unemployment is a major challenge facing most eu countries. i support the report, which will allow member states to receive advance payments to tackle the problem of youth employment. the european commission has sent a clear signal that youth employment is a priority. at the same time, it is essential that they provide a full and clear overview of the costs and measures to combat youth unemployment. the european commission, however, must set up a comprehensive monitoring system for the programme and report to the european parliament and the council of the eu on its effects. i thank the rapporteur for her wise decision not to table amendments to the report, thus ensuring that the funds for youth employment will be available as soon as possible.
on behalf of the ppe group. we all agree that tax avoidance is a very serious problem, which of course does a lot of damage to our economies and ultimately also affects the lower standard of living of people. and we fight this problem day after day and with different means. and one of the possible means is the so-called safe cloud, an internet tool to which information about harmful tax practices is supposedly sent. that sounds very promising, but when we get to how the thing is going to be implemented, of course, it gets stuck. we're running into a lot of problems, mostly legal. this is a very, very sensitive area, which touches on the role of parliament and the protection of personal data. how to ensure anonymity, if at all possible, and how to ensure the protection of personal data? in short, as we move forward, we should... we should be aware of our role in parliament, which is primarily legislative, and of course ask ourselves whether we want to go beyond that role.
we have long known that a fairer distribution of the financial, organisational and human resources burdens among the member states of the union is necessary. some solutions have been talked about for years, but apparently because of the selfish silence of many european countries, they have not been implemented. i have a concrete idea that would be worth considering - the idea of setting up a european search and rescue fund. we have funds in the european treasury, we just need to distribute them. we have set aside €791 million for smart borders, and we know that because of the lack of legislation, we won't be able to do it soon enough, and we won't need that much money. why not put some of that money into a bailout fund? to help countries that would cooperate in rescuing people, to help commercial ships. we could have at least three years of operations like mare nostrum. it's about political will. i know that's not enough, of course. all european countries must cooperate. financially, and a commitment to provide refugees with shelter. i therefore warmly welcome the commission's intention to introduce quotas and safe and legal routes to europe. the doors, the roads, the europe must remain open. and, president juncker, this is the right direction. i strongly support the commission in this. if we do not act now and together, we will bury the values of the entire european union forever. and it won't be the african refugees' fault. (the speaker agreed to accept the question raised by the blue card (rule 162 (8)).
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. i think that the honourable member is not really addressing this question to me, but to the commission. but i can say again that i support the intentions and efforts of the european commission, and that we have too much selfish silence from european governments. we've been talking about solutions for years. we have concrete ideas now. but i'm afraid we won't be ambitious enough while people die in the mediterranean. the refugee rescue and search fund is a concrete idea, if there is the political will, if we can find the legal mechanisms to do so.
in writing. for the thousands who crossed the mediterranean to seek a better life in the european union, it is already too late, but if we act today, we can save many more. migration is not an italian, greek or slovenian problem, it is a european problem, which the european union as a whole must tackle. joint action in the framework of a reinforced frontex is a necessary but not sufficient measure. we also need to strengthen other common european bodies such as easo, europol and eurojust to make them more effective and to look for new reception without delay. the solution to this problem must be based on the principle of solidarity with the countries most affected by migration, including through quotas. one of the key issues in tackling the problem is the effective fight against traffickers and migrant smuggling networks. we must use all means to stop them, including joint military-naval actions between the european union and the united nations off the north african coast from where smugglers ferry unfortunate migrants.
mr president, the oral amendment reads: ‘in addition to the increasing funding and assets for the triton operation which has been pledged by the european council, calls on the commission as a matter of the utmost urgency to use all means available to present a legislative proposal to manage and remunerate search and rescue activities carried out by the member states and coordinated at eu level’.
i apologize for that, because i thought we were talking about the budget earlier. we are talking, of course, about the report on the guarantees for young people, and i would like to emphasize two points. it is a very important instrument, particularly to facilitate the transition of young people who are neither employed nor in education into one of the important forms of life: immediate employment, apprenticeship, practical training or education. but i want to say, of course, that this alone is not going to solve the problem. that the member states, and of course slovenia, must also fight against various forms of exploitation and the provision of sustainable work, that is, work that will provide some quality employment. otherwise, of course, we're going to have a very rapid increase in unemployment. and i think that here is an important collaboration, on the one hand, both the profession, on the other hand, politics, economics, and here is an opportunity with these means to ensure rationality.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on pre-financing for operational programmes supported under the youth employment initiative. we all want the european union to be effective in combating youth unemployment. 7 million young people are unemployed in the european union. that's a huge number. we have regions where more than 25% of young people between 15 and 25 are unemployed. these are both young people without qualifications and young graduates who do not get a suitable job because there are no suitable places for their education. the ball is now in the court of the member states. they must provide for measures to ensure that the money is used efficiently and rationally. i support the report and the intentions of the european commission, which have shown that the european union can act quickly and efficiently.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal by the commission to make 1 billion euros available for the yei in 2015 because it is an important step towards the goal of reducing youth unemployment in the eu. this amount corresponds to one-third of the total yei funding foreseen for the period 2014-2020 (3.2 billion euros) and it is positive that it will be made available quickly. these funds are complementary to the 3.2 billion euros from the european social fund that are allocated to the 20 member states where youth unemployment exceeds 25%. the commission has already approved 28 out of 34 yei operational programmes; as soon as the new rules are approved by the eu council of ministers and enter into force, these programmes will receive up to a third of their allocations. i am particularly glad that slovenia is among the countries that will directly benefit from this initiative.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1304/2013 of the european parliament and of the council on the european social fund, as regards an increase in the amount of initial pre-financing paid for operational programmes supported under the youth employment initiative, as this will allow parliament to release about eur 1 billion of funds from the european commission before the summer, benefiting more than half a million young people in 20 eu countries. slovenia will thus have around eur 2,7 million available in 2015. i myself was the shadow rapporteur for my political group, the epp, for the opinion on this report, which allowed the increase in european pre-financing for youth employment from 1% to 30%. many member states have not been able to start drawing on european money because of a lack of their own initial resources. the european union must act, as there are as many as 7 million unemployed under 25 in the eu by some measures. the funds will be used for education, creating new jobs for young people and promoting a faster transition from schooling to the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the court of auditors' special reports in the 2013 commission discharge, which i myself co-authored as rapporteur for two reports. i myself prepared a working document on the common agricultural policy entitled 'has the commission successfully managed the integration of tied aid into the single payment scheme? , in which i pointed out that some member states did not always comply with the principles of sound financial management. this has resulted in an inefficient use of public funds and even unexpected financial benefits for some farmers. the second working document i produced relates to the european court of auditors' report entitled 'how the eu institutions and bodies calculate, reduce and offset their greenhouse gas emissions'. the objective of all eu institutions and bodies should be to have a common approach to their own greenhouse gas emissions and to reduce them where possible. to achieve this, they should calculate their greenhouse gas emissions comprehensively and publish the results.
in writing. ‒ the successful control of the implementation of the union budget requires cooperation between parliament and the council, and unfortunately, discharge procedures have been problematic on several occasions. effective budgetary control can only be achieved through cooperation, which includes formal meetings between the representative of the council and the european parliament's committee on budgetary control, the answering of questions raised by the members of the committee on the basis of a written questionnaire and the submission of documentation as information material for budgetary controls. without the council's participation, parliament cannot therefore take an informed decision to grant discharge. regrettably, parliament has repeatedly encountered difficulties in receiving replies and other necessary information from the council. the poor cooperation between parliament and the council has put transparency and democratic accountability to the union's taxpayers at serious risk, and i therefore supported the motion for a resolution calling for the suspension of the discharge to the council.
in writing. ‒ for discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013 - european council and council, i voted because the court of auditors concluded, on the basis of the audit work, that there were no significant errors in the total payments for administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies for the year ended 31 december 2013. the report reiterates that the budget of the european council and the council should be separated in order to ensure greater transparency in their financial management and greater accountability of both institutions, and calls on the council to work with the other institutions to find a common methodology for presenting translation costs, thus simplifying analysis and comparison of costs.
in writing. ‒ the european court of auditors in its 2013 annual report on the european external action service indicated, inter alia, that the final budget for the eeas headquarters was 4.09% higher than the previous year, with the largest part of this budget (69%) being devoted to the payment of salaries and other allowances to statutory and external staff. as the court of auditors found that there was no significant error rate in the overall payments for administrative and other expenditure relating to the implementation of the budget of the european external action service, i supported the motion for a resolution granting discharge to the european external action service for 2013.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors did not identify any serious deficiencies in its 2013 annual report on the implementation of the budget of the court of justice of the european union in relation to the audited areas relating to human resources and public procurement. there were also no significant errors in the total payments for administrative and other expenditure. the budget of the court of justice of the european union is purely administrative in nature, since a large proportion is spent on expenditure relating to the staff of the institution. it is also a positive policy of the court to give priority to the use of in-house resources, in particular in the translation service, and it is important that the court makes more frequent use of technological translation tools in the future. as the european court of auditors has not identified any material error in the implementation of the budget of the court of justice of the european union, i have supported the motion for a resolution granting discharge to the court of justice for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section iv court of justice of the european union, as the court of auditors states in its 2013 annual report that it did not find any serious deficiencies in relation to the audited areas relating to human resources and public procurement of the court of justice of the european union. the budget of the court of justice of the european union for 2013 was eur 354 880000 and the execution rate was 96,3% - a decrease in the execution rate compared to 2012.
in writing. ‒ the european court of auditors in its 2013 annual report on the implementation of the committee of the regions budget did not identify any major weaknesses in the areas related to human resources and public procurement. there were also no significant errors in the total payments for administrative and other expenditure. it should be noted that the committee of the regions' budget is purely administrative in nature, since a large proportion is spent on staff expenditure. the selection of regions actively cooperates with the european parliament in the discharge procedure, as the budget office records and enters the recommendations and requests of the committee on budgetary control into a central database and regularly monitors the progress of implementation. on the basis of the positive elements mentioned above, i supported the motion for a resolution granting the committee of the regions discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ for the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section vii committee of the regions i voted as it notes that the court of auditors stated in its 2013 annual report that it had not identified any serious deficiencies in relation to the audited areas relating to human resources and public procurement of the committee of the regions. the report also welcomes, inter alia, the 2013 annual report on subsidiarity, which contains an overview of the activities of the subsidiarity monitoring committee during the year, and further considers that the report is an important tool for parliament's legislative work.
in writing. ‒ for the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section viii european ombudsman i voted as it notes that the court of auditors did not find any significant deficiencies in relation to the audited areas relating to the european ombudsman's human resources and public procurement. i also voted in favour of discharge because the report notes that the ombudsman is constantly working to improve financial planning in order to ensure the most efficient possible implementation of the budget.
in writing. ‒ discharge the european court of auditors found in its 2013 annual report on the implementation of the budget of the european data protection supervisor that there were no material errors in payments for administrative and other expenditure and that the auditors examined the supervisory and control systems for administrative and other expenditure as effective. furthermore, it did not identify any serious deficiencies in relation to the audited areas related to human resources and public procurement. in this case, it is entirely the administrative budget, the rate of implementation of which in 2013 was higher than in the previous year, amounting to 84,7%. this is a positive development and the supervisor should make further efforts to improve the enforcement rate in the future. on the basis of the positive elements mentioned above, i supported the motion for a resolution granting the european data protection supervisor discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ for the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section ix european data protection supervisor i voted as it finds that the court of auditors has not identified any material error in the payments for administrative and other expenditure of the european data protection supervisor and that the audit of the supervisory and control systems for administrative and other expenditure has been effective. the report further notes that the supervisory audit carried out by the internal audit service in june 2013 allowed the completion of most of the measures and recommendations proposed in the area of administrative procedures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2013, as the court of auditors stated in its report on the final accounts of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2013 that it had received reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the authority's annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the transactions relating thereto. the financial statements of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators show that the final budget of the agency for the financial year 2013 was eur 11 930 220, which is an increase of 64,74% compared to 2012, which can be explained by the fact that the agency was recently established and that the remit regulation was implemented.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the body of european regulators for electronic communications for the financial year 2013, as the court of auditors stated in the report on the final accounts of the body for the financial year 2013 that it had received reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the body's annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the report further notes that the accounts of the authority for electronic communications regulators show that its final budget for the financial year 2013 was eur 3 557 219, representing an increase of 11,51% compared to 2012.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2013, as the court of auditors states in its report on the centre's final accounts for the financial year 2013 that it has received reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the centre's accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the accounts of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union further show that its final budget for the financial year 2013 was eur 52 193 667, representing an increase of 8,08% compared to 2012. the report also notes the centre's claims that it has prepared an action plan to reduce the above mentioned administrative costs in the areas of human resources, financial circles, information technology and infrastructure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2013, as it finds that the figures in the final accounts of the european centre for the development of vocational training are as annexed to the court of auditors' report. the report also approves the final accounts of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2013. the accounts of the european centre for the development of vocational training show that the final budget of the centre for the financial year 2013 was eur 17 925 075, representing a decrease of 6,72 % compared to 2012.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2013, as it finds that the figures in the final accounts of the european aviation safety agency are as annexed to the court of auditors' report. the accounts of the european aviation safety agency show that the final budget of the agency for the financial year 2013 was eur 167,023.535, representing an increase of 5,15% compared to 2012.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european asylum support office for the financial year 2013, as the court of auditors stated in the report on the office's final accounts for the financial year 2013 that it had received reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the office's annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the accounts of the european asylum support office show that its budget for the financial year 2013 was eur 10 500 000.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european banking authority for the financial year 2013, as it finds that the figures in the final accounts of the european banking authority are as annexed to the court of auditors' report. the report also highlights, inter alia, that the authority's role in promoting a common supervisory regime in the single market is essential to ensure a more integrated, efficient and secure banking sector in the union, as it contributes to economic recovery, job creation and growth in europe, as well as to preventing future financial sector crises.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2013, as the court of auditors stated in its report on the centre's final accounts for the financial year 2013 that it had received reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the centre's accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the accounts of the european centre for disease prevention and control show that the final budget of the centre for the financial year 2013 was eur 58 315 000, representing an increase of 0,2% compared to 2012.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2013, as it finds that the figures in the final accounts of the european chemicals agency are as annexed to the court of auditors' report. the report also notes that since 2012, the agency has been responsible for the management and implementation of the technical, scientific and administrative aspects of regulation (eu) no 528/2012 of the european parliament and of the council (the bpr regulation) and similar tasks related to the export and import of hazardous chemicals under regulation (eu) no 649/2012 of the european parliament and of the council.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2013, as the court of auditors stated in its report on the agency's final accounts for the financial year 2013 that it had received reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the agency's annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the report notes that, as a result of budgetary monitoring, the budget implementation rate reached 98,64% and the payment rate 83,85% in the financial year 2013. on the basis of the court of auditors' report, it concludes that the high overall level of commitments demonstrated that the budgetary commitments were implemented in a timely manner.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european food safety authority for the financial year 2013, as the court of auditors stated in its report on the agency's final accounts for the financial year 2013 that it had received reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the agency's final accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the report also notes that, as a result of budgetary monitoring, the budget implementation rate reached 98,80% in the financial year 2013, which is a slight decrease compared to the previous year (99,30%) and the payment execution rate was high at 90,80%.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european institute for gender equality for the financial year 2013, as the court of auditors stated in the report on the institute's final accounts for the financial year 2013 that it had received reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the institute's accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the report further notes that, as a result of budgetary monitoring, the budget implementation rate reached 98,01% and the payment rate 76,93% in the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for the financial year 2013, as the court of auditors stated in the report on the authority's final accounts for the financial year 2013 that it had received reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the authority's accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the accounts of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority show that its final budget for the financial year 2013 was eur 18 767 470, representing an increase of 19,88% compared to 2012, as the authority was established only recently.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2013, as the court of auditors stated in its report on the agency's final accounts for the financial year 2013 that it had received reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the agency's annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the agency operates through a network and coordinates the scientific resources available to it from the national authorities in order to ensure the evaluation and control of medicinal products for human and veterinary use. the report further emphasises that the agency has an important role to play in the protection and promotion of public and animal health through the evaluation and supervision of medicinal products for human or veterinary use.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2013, as the court of auditors stated in its report on the agency's final accounts for the financial year 2013 that it had received reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the centre's accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the report notes that, as a result of budgetary monitoring, the budget implementation rate reached 99,73% and the payment execution rate 97,71% in the financial year 2013, representing a minor decrease of 0,1% compared to 2012. the report also notes that the high overall level of commitments demonstrated that the budgetary commitments were implemented in a timely manner.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2013, as the court of auditors stated in its report on the agency's final accounts for the financial year 2013 that it had received reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the agency's annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the report also notes that two comments in the 2011 court of auditors report, marked as 'in progress' and 'not implemented' in the 2012 court of auditors report, have been corrected and that one comment is now marked as 'concluded' and one as 'implemented' in the court of auditors report; notes also that the court of auditors had three comments in the 2012 report and that one was corrected, with one comment now marked as 'concluded' and one of the remaining two comments now marked as 'implemented' and the other as 'not relevant'.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for network and information security for the financial year 2013, as the court of auditors stated in its report on the agency's final accounts for the financial year 2013 that it had received reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the agency's accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the agency's main task is to build on national and union efforts to strengthen the union's capacity to prevent and respond to network and information security problems.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european railway agency for the financial year 2013, as the court of auditors stated in its report on the agency's final accounts for the financial year 2013 that it had received reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the agency's annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the report also notes that three comments made in the 2011 court of auditors report, which were marked as 'implemented' and 'not implemented' respectively in the 2012 report, have been corrected and are now marked as 'included' and 'implemented' in the 2013 court of auditors report. the report further notes that three comments in the court of auditors' 2012 report have been corrected and that two comments are now marked as completed and one as in progress.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european securities and markets authority for the financial year 2013, as the court of auditors stated in its report on the authority's final accounts for the financial year 2013 that it had received reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the authority's accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the report concludes that the authority has used different methods, such as monthly reporting to the executive director and quarterly reporting to the management board, to ensure timely compliance with the corrective actions related to the implementation of the budget and that this has led to a higher rate of budget implementation compared to the previous year.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european training foundation for the financial year 2013, as the court of auditors stated in its report on the foundation's final accounts for the financial year 2013 that it had received reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the foundation's annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. according to the accounts of the european training foundation, the final budget of the foundation for the financial year 2013 was eur 20 143 500, which is 0,01 % less than in 2012.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice for the financial year 2013, as the court of auditors stated in its report on the agency's closure of accounts for the financial year 2013 that it had received reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the agency's annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the accounts of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice show that its final budget for the financial year 2013 was eur 61.345.072.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2013, as the court of auditors stated in its report on the agency's final accounts for the financial year 2013 that it had received reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the agency's annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the report also notes that two comments in the 2011 court of auditors report, marked as 'implemented' and 'not implemented' in the 2012 report, have been corrected and are now marked as 'closed' in the 2013 court of auditors report. the report further notes that one corrective action has been taken in relation to the two comments in the court of auditors' 2012 report and that one comment is now marked as 'completed' and the other as 'implemented'.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2013, as the court of auditors stated in its report on the annual accounts of the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2013 that it had received reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the agency's annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the report also notes that the accounts of the euratom supply agency show that the agency's final budget for the financial year 2013 was eur 104 000, which was the same amount as in 2012.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for the financial year 2013, as the court of auditors stated in its report on the foundation's final accounts for the financial year 2013 that it had received reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the agency's annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the accounts of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions show that the final budget of the foundation for the financial year 2013 was eur 20 624 300, which is 3,76% less than in 2012.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of eurojust's budget for the financial year 2013, as the court of auditors stated in its report on the final accounts of eurojust for the financial year 2013 that it had received sufficient assurances as to the reliability of eurojust's annual accounts for the financial year 2013 and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. in the financial year 2013, the union contribution to eurojust's budget amounted to eur 32 358 660, representing a decrease of 1,85 % compared to 2012.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european police office for the financial year 2013, as the court of auditors stated in the office's report on the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2013 that it had received reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the office's annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the financial statements of the european police office show that the final budget of the office for the financial year 2013 was eur 82.520.500, which is 1,94% less than in 2012.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2013, as the court of auditors stated in its report on the agency's final accounts for the financial year 2013 that it had received reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the agency's accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the report concludes that the court of auditors did not comment on the agency's procurement procedures in its 2013 report based on sample transactions and other audit findings. it also notes that the court of auditors did not comment on the agency's recruitment procedures in its report.
in writing. ‒ the artemis joint undertaking was set up in december 2007 for a period of 10 years to define and implement a research programme to develop key technologies for embedded computing systems in different fields of application, in order to improve european competitiveness and sustainability and to enable the creation of new markets and societal applications. the joint undertaking received a qualified opinion from the european court of auditors on the legality and regularity of the transactions for the third consecutive year, as it was not able to assess whether the ex post audit strategy ensures the legality and regularity of the transactions with sufficient reliability. furthermore, the joint undertaking did not establish an internal audit service as set out in its constituent contract, nor did it fully develop the procedures for monitoring the protection and dissemination of research results at the various stages of the project, as envisaged by the decision on the seventh framework programme of the european community for research, technological development and demonstration activities. i am convinced that, following the third opinion with reservations, the time has come for the joint undertaking to radically change its strategy and i therefore supported the motion for a resolution requesting a deferral of the granting of discharge.
in writing. ‒ the clean sky joint undertaking was set up in 2007 for a period of 10 years to accelerate the development, validation and demonstration of clean air transport technologies in the union, so that they can be put into use as soon as possible. the main observations of the commission's internal audit service for 2013 relate mainly to delays in the implementation of the programme, under-spending and difficulties in evaluating the use of funds. however, the european court of auditors stated in its report, inter alia, that the following weaknesses were identified in relation to ex ante controls of claims for reimbursement of costs of the joint undertaking's partners: the checklists for ex ante control of claims were not always complete, the tasks of financial and operational verification and approval of tasks were performed by the same staff, contrary to the principle of separation of tasks, and in the second case the grant agreement was signed only five months after the start of the activity without justifying the need for the start of the activity before the signature of the agreement. however, as the court of auditors found that the transactions related to the annual accounts were legal and regular in all material respects, i supported the motion for a resolution proposing to grant discharge to the clean sky joint undertaking.
in writing. ‒ the eniac joint undertaking was set up in december 2007 for a period of 10 years to define and implement a research programme to develop key competences for nanoelectronics in different application areas and was merged with the artemis joint undertaking to establish a joint technology initiative on electronic components and systems for european leadership. this joint undertaking also received a qualified opinion from the european court of auditors for the third year in a row on the legality and regularity of transactions relating to the annual accounts, as it was not able to assess whether the ex post audit strategy, which relies heavily on the national funding bodies to audit project cost claims, ensures the legality and regularity of transactions with sufficient confidence. the court even considers that the information available on the implementation of the ex post audit strategy is insufficient to determine whether this key control is working successfully. as in the case of the artemis joint undertaking, i supported the motion for a resolution requesting the postponement of the discharge to the eniac joint undertaking.
in writing. ‒ the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking was established in 2008 as a public-private partnership to focus on the development of market applications and thus accelerate further economic efforts to rapidly deploy fuel cell and hydrogen technologies. the internal audit department of the joint undertaking carried out an audit of the management of the grant in 2013 and identified in the final report the need to reduce the time between the grant award and the end of the negotiations and to clarify certain aspects of the procedure used by the joint undertaking to review financial capacity. however, the commission concluded in its report, based on the second mid-term evaluation for the period november 2012 to may 2013, that the joint undertaking could have allocated more resources to operations by sharing administrative functions with other joint undertakings, and could have focused more on the research strategy under horizon 2020 in line with the three main principles. as the joint undertaking has revised the action plan to improve the above aspects, i supported the motion for a resolution proposing to grant discharge to the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking.
in writing. ‒ the joint undertaking for the implementation of the joint technology initiative on innovative medicines was established with the aim of improving the efficiency and effectiveness of drug development and, as a long-term objective, the pharmaceutical sector to produce more effective and safer innovative medicines. in its report on the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, the court of auditors delivered a qualified opinion on the legality and regularity of the related transactions, as the error rate found exceeded the materiality threshold of 2%. the error rate found in the 56 completed audits of the first representative sample in 2012 was as high as 5,82%, and the error rate of the second representative sample was 2,3%. moreover, the court of auditors has delivered a qualified opinion for this joint undertaking for the third year in a row. i am convinced that, following the third opinion with reservation and the recurrent breach of the materiality threshold, it is time for the joint undertaking to make a fundamental change in its strategy and i therefore supported the motion for a resolution requesting the postponement of the discharge.
in writing. ‒ meps are committed to ensuring that public funds are spent as correctly and transparently as possible. in the case of the iter project, our role is particularly important. i want to highlight the poor planning here. the projected cost of the project has increased from eur 5,9 billion in 2006 to eur 16 billion today, and there are no delays in achieving the objectives - the project is to be completed by 2027 instead of 2016. the change in the scope of the project results and the unrealistic timetable are also of great concern. these are the reasons why it would be irresponsible to grant the project a discharge for 2013. in granting discharge, we ignore the efforts and findings of the european court of auditors, which calls into question not only respect but also understanding of the role of the supreme audit institution.
in writing. ‒ the sesar joint undertaking was set up in february 2007 to implement the single european sky - air traffic management research programme with the aim of modernising air traffic management in europe. the commission concluded in its second mid-term evaluation of the working methods, results achieved and overall financial situation of the joint undertaking that the joint undertaking could better address the specific information and communication needs of the member states and continue its efforts to improve the achievement of the annual targets. however, the court of auditors found in its report that the joint undertaking disseminated new knowledge in the field of research by making detailed information on products and processes available to relevant stakeholders. the court also found, inter alia, that the joint undertaking had already introduced improvements in the area of prior checks. that is why i also supported the motion for a resolution proposing to grant discharge to the sesar joint undertaking.
what i am saying is that, first of all, of course, any expenditure of european funds - including those used by parliament and the members of the european parliament - must be transparent and subject to appropriate controls. and in this connection i would just like to point out that the part of the funding that we members receive for our offices, that special budget 4200, i think should be more transparent. and of course the rules on what these funds can be used for should also be more precise, more specific, and at the same time, of course, subject to appropriate controls to avoid various speculations and, of course, possible abuses. because in the end, it can also cast a bad light on the whole parliament and on the public's confidence in the work of members.
in writing. ‒ i supported the interim report on the proposal for a council regulation establishing the european public prosecutor's office. each year, we witness fraud that amounts to billions of euros. money is stolen for youth, for employment, for research and innovation. this is our money. all this is due to the fact that, unfortunately, we do not have an effective mechanism at european level to combat fraud against the eu's financial interests. it is up to the member states alone to fight this. some countries are successful in fighting fraud, others are not. this difference between the different modes of investigation requires a single public prosecutor at a single level to be able to deal with this type of fraud. the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office will make investigations faster and more efficient.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the interim report on the proposal for a council regulation establishing the european public prosecutor's office by the rapporteur, ms monice macovei, as there are between 500 million and 3 billion euro worth of alleged fraud cases per year that harm the eu's financial interests. european taxpayers are being hurt at a huge cost, and some member states are not responding adequately; less than a third of olafa recommendations are followed by indictments. the european public prosecutor's office can increase the effectiveness of the fight against alleged infringements of european law. at the same time, it should not be forgotten that the european parliament has repeatedly called for the strengthening of existing mechanisms at the level of the european union, not only in relation to breaches of european law in individual member states, but also to sanction flagrant abuses of the rule of law in individual member states and to ensure respect for the union's values as set out in article 2 teu. effective intervention measures are needed to detect violations with the possibility of sanctions in case of systematic violations of the principles of democracy and the rule of law, if the relevant control system in the member state does not function.
the victims of the so-called islamic state in iraq and syria are first and foremost people. isis shows no mercy in their atrocities. at the same time, the regime has also targeted many archaeological, religious and cultural sites, which have been declared world heritage sites by unesco. many shiite churches and mosques were destroyed, as were statues in the mosul museum from the time of the ancient assyrian and akkadian empires. the ancient assyrian city of nimrod was razed to the ground. finally, they turned to the city of hatra, also a unesco world heritage site. isis is forcing syrian and iraqi christians to flee their homes. it wants to erase all traces of these communities, so it destroys both cultural artifacts, i.e. material culture, and intangible expressions of culture, such as customs, traditions and beliefs. cultural cleansing, or culturicide, is defined by unesco as a strategy that destroys cultural diversity. the rome statute of the international criminal court in '98 also treats as a war crime attacks on buildings dedicated to religion, education, art, science or charity, historical monuments and so on. the european union cannot be indifferent to the cultural genocide that is taking place in the neighbourhood. therefore, the actions of isis must be understood as a war crime and a crime against humanity and must be dealt with accordingly.
blue-card question.– mr mcallister, you are the rapporteur for serbia, and a good one. i know that you read, as i did, the comments in the serbian press and by serbian politicians about the remarks made by albanian prime minister rama which actually announced a kind of ʽanschlussʼ. do you share my opinion that the reaction of the european union institutions – the commission and the council – to this kind of rhetoric was too weak?
i congratulate the rapporteur of the commission... the rapporteur and the commission on a job well done and albania on a remarkable progress. this report and this debate are proof that the european union is serious about albania's european perspective. the acquisition of candidate status has brought albania into a new phase in the accession process, in which only consistent and dynamic implementation of the commitments made in accordance with the priorities set can lead to the opening of accession negotiations. i am convinced that overcoming polarization through constructive political dialogue towards common goals would significantly enhance albania's credibility and effectiveness on its path to the european union.
so albania is of course a country that has a varied and dynamic history and at certain periods in that history it was of course not allowed to progress as it would have liked. so of course the progress that albania has made in recent years is welcome, but of course there are still many questions and many problems that it will have to face. one of them is certainly the accusation of corruption, the prudent and correct use of public funds, the question of justice and, of course, what mr. jakovčić said, political culture, especially the dialogue between the position and the opposition. and i would also like to point out something that is extremely important for albania's progress and its development, and that is of course the areas of the environment, the protection of nature, because albania has wonderful natural resources and it would be bad if, of course, capital destroyed all that is the prospect for green jobs and green energy.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. first of all, i would of course like to emphasise that bosnia and herzegovina needs to be treated differently from other western balkan countries, because it nevertheless has a specific situation. its arrangements are based on the dayton agreement, which is of course not ideal, leaves a lot of questions and of course we must also consider a different, more permanent agreement in the future. at this moment, of course, when bosnia is in a very difficult situation, both financially and in terms of human resources, and when there are still attacks, when tensions are still high and when we cannot therefore talk about lasting peace, it is important that we help bosnia and herzegovina, that we help it in a balanced and listening manner and that we do not therefore introduce demands which may cause further divisions or which may raise new questions. and of course i support constructive criticism and all the efforts of those who want to help bosnia. the situation in a country can change, we can help it with financial incentives, but of course we need to know where to direct these incentives, and one of these is of course the environment. i therefore say from this place that bosnia must refrain from industries and interventions which seriously damage the environment. but i would also like to take this opportunity to remind you all, or us, of the 20th anniversary of the srebrenica massacre, which we will be marking this june. (the speaker agreed to accept the question raised by the blue card (rule 162 (8)).
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. i think that the european union should make its own contribution to environmental protection, because it is also bound by international environmental commitments and these border problems linked to the environment can also be discussed in the european parliament. that is the case with the question of the border rivers and, of course, the question of the adriatic sea, and that is why i think that oil drilling and exploration in the adriatic should also be stopped.
bosnia and herzegovina is an extraordinary country with extraordinary people, who deserve much more: progress, a modern state. the stabilisation and association agreement, the european initiative for growth and jobs are windows of opportunity, but only if the responsible politicians understand this. i regret that we are speaking at a time when we are all in shock over the attack in zvornik and i offer my deepest condolences to the family of the police officer who was killed. the resolution calls attention to the number of young people who are becoming extremists and going to the battlefields of syria and iraq. europe is fighting violent extremism through awareness-raising and education, i fear that a discontented and economically weak bosnia and herzegovina will have an even worse impact than a state on its young people, on tolerance and on coexistence. unfortunately, the state has no time to delay its obligations, politicians have no time to delay or political blockade. the victims are ultimately civilians.
first of all, i would like to congratulate mr predi on a very balanced report. bosnia is a very complicated country, created in the flimsy, but probably the only possible wartime dayton agreement. the country has a fundamental problem that it is in a complete political blockade, which is a key obstacle to any... to any development of the country. as has been said here today, the key... the key to solving the problems and to progress in bosnia is in bosnia itself, and i support what europe is doing and i help it along the way. the failure of the rule of law, the corruption in the... then the failure of the market economy cripple and make the country unviable for young people, which is even more terrible, it becomes a breeding ground for crime and terrorism, which we have seen in recent days and which we all condemn. in conclusion, i support the changed positive approach taken by europe. but i call on all three constituent peoples in bosnia and herzegovina to dialogue and progress.
economic cooperation between countries moving closer to europe is essential. bosnia is in a very dramatic economic situation. the very high unemployment rate and the major floods that have hit the country last year and the year before, really testify to europe's positive, benevolent attitude towards this economic cooperation and the opening up of these markets. it is also the case that any opening of markets, any halt to people's participation is ... a contact with the european cultural space, a contact with the european political space and all the demands made to the countries in the context of such cooperation are also a step towards facilitating reforms in the countries themselves. that is why i support such a resolution, i support europe also helping the bosnian people to have a perspective and a connection with europe.
in writing. the marrakesh treaty on facilitated access to literary works for the blind, visually impaired and persons with reading disabilities was signed at the diplomatic conference on 27 june 2013, which, after many years of negotiations, recognised the right of these groups to a range of facilitations in accessing works previously inaccessible to them. unfortunately, the european union has not ratified it to date. in fact, in the most developed countries, only about 5 percent of published works of any kind are adapted to formats accessible to the blind and visually impaired, while in slovenia, the proportion is as high as 2 percent. this very limited access to literature in their mother tongue and in a foreign language deprives blind and partially sighted people of their right to education, information and social inclusion. ratification of the marrakesh treaty at eu level will help to reduce existing restrictions arising from national copyright laws and encourage the cross-border circulation of works adapted to blind and partially sighted people. the commission, the council and parliament should therefore set up an informal trialogue to agree on the fastest possible way of ratifying and implementing the marrakesh treaty.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the alcohol strategy, as it is important that the european commission update the regulatory framework to support national governments in developing strategies to deal with the harmful consequences of alcohol consumption. in addition, support for monitoring and collecting reliable data, promoting preventive and health education and supporting people facing alcohol-related problems are also important. as a member of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, i believe that consumers should be informed about the ingredients and nutritional values in alcoholic beverages in the same way as they are informed about these data for other foods. in addition to such labelling, member states should endeavour to raise awareness among the general public. here, particularly minors and pregnant women are the most vulnerable, as the harmful effects of alcohol consumption on these two groups are even greater. member states should also endeavour to reduce the number of road accidents related to driving under the influence of alcohol. it should be noted that at eu level, as many as 25% of all deaths among young men aged 15-29 are alcohol-related, as are 1 in 10 deaths among women in this age group.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the alcohol strategy. as an alternate member of the committee on transport and tourism, i would like to highlight the devastating effects of alcohol on transport. driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs is responsible for one in four fatal accidents on european roads. 10,000 needless deaths a year. add to that the badly injured. european commission statistics show that for every death, on average, we have four people who survive with permanent and severe brain or spinal injuries. today we're talking about measures that could reduce alcohol consumption. so when we talk about the cost, we must also talk about the pain, suffering, and expense that alcohol causes.
in writing. ‒ on the second anniversary of the tragedy in rana plaza, bangladesh, we commemorate the deaths of more than 1,100 people and the injury of 2,500. the accident is considered one of the worst ever to have occurred in a garment factory. in 2013, a fund was established to provide financial assistance to the families of the victims and injured to cover the costs of treatment and other claims related to the accident. the estimated amount to cover these costs is $30 million, but by february 2015 only $21 million had been raised. this shortage is particularly threatening the treatment of people in need of long-term medical care. it is certainly unacceptable that there is a shortfall in the funds of the said fund. i cannot ignore the fact that many internationally known and respected brands directly associated with rana plaza have still not contributed any financial support. brands must ensure that workers are paid fairly for the work they do, and not just look at their own profits. i believe that exploitation of workers in any industry is not appropriate and that every person deserves a fair wage for their work. in addition, workers must be provided with working conditions in a safe and appropriate environment. for the reasons stated above, i supported the resolution and voted in favour of its adoption by the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the second anniversary of the rana plaza building collapse and progress on the bangladesh sustainable development pact, as the collapse of this building in the suburb of dhaka, which housed several garment factories, represents one of the deadliest industrial accidents in modern history. on 24 april 2013, more than 1100 people died and around 2500 were injured, all of which could have been prevented by better occupational safety systems. there are serious shortcomings in transparency and traceability in the global supply chain and not all companies in the garment sector respect the labour standards in their supply chain as they should in line with internationally recognised principles of corporate social responsibility. i am pleased that in july 2013 the eu concluded an agreement for continuous improvement in the field of safety in garment factories in bangladesh, in which bangladesh committed to take action to improve labour standards and working conditions in the garment industry.
in writing. ‒ in 2014, 276 113 migrants entered the eu illegally, an increase of 138% compared to the same period in 2013. this figure takes into account illegal entry into the eu territory by land, air and sea. most migrants, however, have turned to criminal smuggling networks for transportation. illegal smuggling of migrants is a fast-growing criminal activity. the fight against migrant smuggling has been one of the eu's key objectives for more than a decade and i believe it must remain a top priority in the future. the illegal smuggling of migrants across mediterranean waters has increased particularly in recent years, as evidenced by the increasing number of tragic accidents resulting in the loss of innocent lives. in 2014, more than 220,000 migrants reached the eu by sea, an increase of 310% compared to the same period in 2013. the cruelty suffered by migrants on board ships often puts their lives in danger. the eu cannot stand by and watch innocent people lose their lives. we cannot allow the burden of migrants to fall on the shoulders of just a few member states. the public must be made aware of the current acute problem, and i have therefore supported the european parliament's resolution on the mediterranean migrant problem, which needs to be resolved immediately.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the recent tragic events in the mediterranean and the eu's migration and asylum policy, as this resolution can help to prevent many more deaths in the mediterranean. in one recent tragedy alone, some 700 migrants died, and in another, some 400. the union as a whole must respond to these events and all member states must show solidarity with those most affected by migration, such as italy, which has received some 24 000 migrants in recent months, and greece, which has received some 10 000 migrants in the meantime. we need to strengthen and increase the effectiveness of frontex, easo, europol and eurojust, and above all, the fight against trafficking in human beings needs to become much more effective.
in writing. - i supported the proposed report. economic cooperation with countries in the process of or preparing for accession negotiations is of particular importance to these countries. the economic situation of bosnia and herzegovina is unenviable, which makes the readiness for economic cooperation and the creation of an attractive business environment all the more important. the eu is very much in favour of opening up the markets with bih, as it wants to help the country and put it on a more optimistic path. bih needs it, especially after last year's and the previous years' catastrophic floods, which destroyed much of the basic infrastructure. i support this path, as it is necessary to give many unemployed young people in bih a brighter future. unlike the one they're showing today. opening up markets, cooperation and contact with the european cultural area will be the most effective means of reforming the state and the citizens themselves and helping them to develop their perspectives.
in writing. ‒ as a representative of the green party, i did not support the autonomous preferential agreement requested by bosnia and herzegovina by the european commission, arguing that it was merely a technical change. by requiring bosnia and herzegovina to sign the agreement or to terminate it completely as of 1 january 2016, the commission has cornered them. such an action would only further jeopardize their already weak economy. bosnia and herzegovina pointed out that its request not to accept the autonomous preferential agreement was based mainly on the fact that it has a specific agreement with the existing trade agreement with croatia for 15 types of agricultural products, which represent a significant proportion of its exports. therefore, any change in the export conditions for these sensitive products threatens their already weak economy. moreover, such an action is not in line with mogherini's approach of promoting economic growth and job creation in the country. the country and its people need to be listened to and understood. after all, the very high unemployment rate, the poor economic situation, the excessive level of corruption and the many other problems they face clearly indicate that bosnia and herzegovina and its citizens do not need additional blows, but a helping hand and understanding.
in writing. ‒ the resolution is well written and balanced, covering all the relevant aspects and clearly expressing support for albania's future eu membership and if it remains on track as it is now. the eu should continue to promote and accompany albania on the path to successful reforms and the establishment of a strong democratic state. for many years, albania made little progress compared to the other balkan countries. but in the last three years, we have seen a lot of improvement and effort to improve the situation in the country. in june 2014, albania was granted eu candidate status. since then, albania's main objectives have been: reform of public administration; fight against corruption and organised crime; protection of human rights; and strengthening the judiciary. albania has good potential and i support its very well-defined and successful path so far. for this reason, i supported the european parliament resolution on albania's progress in 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i strongly believe in albania’s future as a member state of the european union. the country has made good progress in meeting the political criteria for eu integration and has improved its relations with its neighbours. notably, it has maintained a pro-active stance in regional and bilateral cooperation and has shown political will to intensify its dialogue with serbia. moreover, albania’s foreign policy is now fully aligned with eu foreign and defence policy. sustainable reforms in the priority areas of public administration, reinforcement of the judiciary and the fight against corruption and organised crime have been adopted and are being implemented effectively. the opening of eu accession negotiations would boost new reforms and consolidate existing ones by offering albania a credible european perspective.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposed progress report on bosnia and herzegovina prepared by mr preda, as it is very balanced and realistic in its presentation of the situation in bih. this is far from ideal, and the reasons for this are many. bosnia is a very complex country with a bloody history, created on the basis of a flawed, but the only possible, in wartime, dayton agreement. since its founding, or since the end of the war, the country has been in a spiral of a broken political system, inter-ethnic conflicts, corruption and economic problems that prevent any significant progress of the country. the lack of rule of law, corruption and the fact that it prevents the normal functioning of the market economy make bih a completely unpromising country for young people - the worryingly high youth unemployment rate of 59% is a cause for concern. and even more disturbing, such conditions become an optimal breeding ground for crime and terrorism. but this is not happening thousands of miles away from us, but right in our own backyard. the main burden of solving all the problems that have accumulated over the years in bih rests on the bih authorities themselves, and the eu must help them to do so at all times. i am convinced that, with the prospect of a more positive eu approach to the situation in bih and a greater readiness of the bih authorities to deal with the difficulties, progress is possible.
in writing. ‒ bosnia and herzegovina needs to be treated differently from other western balkan countries because of its specific situation. the division and division of the country can be felt at every turn and it is necessary to give people time to integrate and to feel like one nation. the european parliament resolution is encouraging, balanced and positive. it was the effort of the rapporteur, mr preda, and all the other parties involved in the negotiations. i support constructive criticism and also the efforts of all those who want to help bosnia and herzegovina to improve the situation in the country. but the state and its people also need to be listened to and understood. after all, the very high unemployment rate, the poor economic situation, the excessive level of corruption and the many other problems they face clearly indicate that bosnia and herzegovina and its citizens do not need additional blows, but a helping hand. the european parliament must help to establish a better economic and political situation and give bosnia and herzegovina the maximum possible support to achieve the desired progress. that is why i supported the resolution and voted for its adoption.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it strongly supports bosnia and herzegovina’s european integration while, at the same time, clearly highlighting the numerous challenges that the country still faces and needs to address swiftly in the interest of its citizens. bosnia and herzegovina (bih) is plagued by overly complex and inefficient institutional architecture, which enhances the existing divide along ethnic lines and severely hampers the decision-making process. the lack of cooperation among political elites prevents the adoption of much-needed reforms to fight the high levels of corruption and unemployment, while public administration remains fragmented and costly. the written commitment to eu integration, signed by all political leaders and adopted by the bih presidency in february 2015, represents a positive step towards reversing this tendency. with the entry into force of the stabilisation and association agreement, on which the council agreed in march 2015, the leaders of bih and the eu will need jointly to set out a roadmap for urgent reforms to advance the country on its path towards eu membership.
in writing. ‒ i was happy to support the expo 2015 resolution, as it really opens up the most pressing issues in the field of agriculture or food production in the world. agriculture is undoubtedly one of the cornerstones of the eu economy and as such must make its greatest contribution to eradicating hunger in the world. the right to food is a universal human right and i am pleased that the resolution puts this finding at the centre. the need for food will increase with the increase in the world's population, and the global economy must be prepared for this. at the same time, the problem of food waste needs to be tackled seriously. the current amount of food thrown away worldwide could feed hundreds of millions of hungry people, so action must be taken here and now. i am also pleased to see the sincere recognition of the role of smallholder and family farmers in ending persistent hunger and ensuring global food security. without them, there is no sustainable agriculture. i also find the resolution calling for greater transparency in the food chain and the elimination of unfair trading practices very important. farmers must be guaranteed a fair return, fair prices and a fair profit, and this must be ensured along the whole chain. i believe that this year's world expo 2015 in milan, which begins tomorrow, will give the world and all of us a new impetus to improve the conditions on our beautiful planet.
in writing. ‒ nigeria has been facing widespread violence in the country since 2009 by the fundamentalist islamist organisation boko haram. the latter killed more than 22,000 civilians between 2009 and 2015. terrorist attacks and violence are occurring mainly in the northern part of nigeria. by the end of 2014, more than 1.5 million people had fled conflict zones. boko haram wants to establish an islamic state in nigeria, which will practice shiite law and where education will be banned. the security problem is exacerbated by the continuing attacks, mismanagement, corruption and deteriorating social and economic conditions in northern nigeria. in addition, the differences between the northern and southern parts of the country, which are developing very unevenly, are constantly increasing. the unemployment and poverty rates are much higher in the northern part of the country than in the southern part. i strongly condemn any attacks on innocent people in nigeria, kidnapping, murder and other forms of violence. it should be made clear that the european parliament is strongly opposed to all forms of violence and i myself supported the resolution and voted in favour of its adoption.
in fact, finally, you might say. i think this regulation is a mechanism in the right direction. financial or benchmark values are the basis for a whole range of financial instruments worth millions of euros, and are also linked to millions of residential mortgage loans, savings of citizens and their manipulation can cause huge losses for consumers and investors. it is therefore necessary to ensure the accuracy, robustness and integrity of the benchmarks and the procedures for their establishment. we have seen a lot of speculation and manipulation in the past, but the fact is, of course, that manipulation and speculation are the two instruments that create the so-called fictitious financial capital that currently runs the world. it is therefore necessary to ensure, in this respect, greater transparency, realism and substantiation of input data and sanctioning and appropriate control mechanisms by means of this regulation.
1.5 billion people still live in poverty because they are faced with a lack of health, education and living standards, and it is these countries that are usually the most affected by any new virus, whether it is created naturally or in a laboratory. official development assistance is thus a key instrument for financing development, but unfortunately few countries are delivering on their commitments to provide aid from gross national income. in particular, it is of course necessary to look for possibilities in cooperation with private sources, so-called blending funds, and it is of course necessary to take into account that these funds achieve their objective and that they are therefore not just a one-off, short-term effect, but that they are long-term effects, which, of course, must also be properly monitored in these projects, so proper planning and selection of projects and evaluation of completed projects are necessary, otherwise the money may go to the wrong hands.
in writing. illicit trade in tobacco products mainly involves the smuggling of original cigarettes, the production and sale of counterfeit cigarettes, and the production of more than is required for a given market. illicit tobacco products can be far more harmful than legal ones, as they are manufactured in unverified facilities and imported into the eu, and the ingredients can contain more nicotine, tar and carbon monoxide, and in some cases even particles of packaging and plastic. in addition, smuggling of tobacco products also finances other forms of illicit trafficking in human beings, drugs and weapons, and reduces the impact of measures to reduce the use of tobacco products, such as tobacco taxes, health warnings and legislation restricting access to tobacco by young people. the eu and its member states lose more than eur 10 billion a year in customs duties, vat and excise duties due to the illicit trade in tobacco products. to combat illicit trade in tobacco products, they have therefore signed tobacco agreements with four tobacco manufacturers. the question now arises whether the existing agreements should be renewed or whether new ones should be concluded. in order to answer this question, you should be aware of the evaluation of the success of the implementation of existing agreements, prepared by the commission at the invitation of parliament, and the evaluation of the added value of tobacco agreements.
the debate on the taxation of e-magazines and e-books has been going on for a long time. a number of expert and interest groups have also expressed their views on this issue, one of which highlighted the following: in order to achieve the economic, social and cultural well-being of all citizens of the european union, access to information, whether in printed or electronic form, is crucial and equally satisfies the needs of citizens. the reason for the same way of meeting needs is the reason that should determine whether printed and electronic publications are treated in the same way in the tax field. books are our great wealth. although they are forgotten today in the flood of electronic media, they are witnesses of our history. this is priceless. access to these books in traditional or electronic form should be made available to everyone today and i see no reason why the tax rates for electronic and printed books should be different. it's not the content, it's the form. progress is being made in all areas and tax systems must of course adapt to this. - my dear sir, (speaker with microphone off)
i'd like to speak briefly about a subject that we should have been discussing in this house in april, but unfortunately we haven't. on 15 april, opposition politician oleg kalashnikov was murdered outside his home. i'm talking about the ukraine. on 16 april, a journalist named oles buzin. on april 17, amnesty international released the following list of deaths in unusual circumstances, which they described as suicides. between january and mid-april this year, the following people are believed to have committed suicide: alexander pekluchenko, former regional governor; stanislav melnik, former member of parliament; mikhail chechetov, former vice-president of the party of regions; sergei valter, mayor of melitopol; alexey kolesnik, former head of the regional government in kharkiv; alexander bordjuh, former head of the police in melitopol. ladies and gentlemen, if we are to believe in the democratic legitimacy of the ukrainian authorities, they owe us the results of a thorough and objective investigation into these unusual deaths.
the events in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, kosovo, serbia and bosnia and herzegovina are a reminder of the danger of the western balkans. the european union has shown signs of fatigue after the enlargement process, which has resulted in 110 million more people in the european union, so this uncertainty that people in the western balkans, the 20 million or so who want to come to the european union, are experiencing is uncertain. i therefore think that we should have a thorough discussion once again in the european parliament, in the european commission, about whether we should really delay this enlargement process for so long. i am also firmly convinced that the name dispute with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia must be resolved and that pre-accession assistance must be stepped up, because as these development differences increase year by year, we will continue to deal with unpleasant developments in this part of europe.
i think it is appropriate to recall at this sitting that 100 years ago, on 23 may, the soča front was launched on slovenian soil as part of the first world war. in three years, it claimed the lives of over 300,000 soldiers from many european nations, and it also left behind many civilian casualties. the first use of the gas was on the sochi front. i am glad that the peace process is now taking place in the area of the former front, and the museum in kobarid, with its display of the tragedy of those times, reminds us of our political responsibility.
smes are discussed at virtually every plenary session and there are many predictions that we will make it easier for smes to get into business, or indeed improve their situation, but it seems to be increasingly theoretical. it is clear that the member states also have to do the majority of the work, but at least if we look at the area of recycling and waste and the circular economy, which is not currently a priority for the commission, it should be said that currently 60% of all waste in the eu is not recycled, composted or reused, which is a great opportunity for smes. and there is much more to be said on this subject, including in the report, thank you mr rapporteur, but i would like to add one thing: in order to really make progress, legislation must also be changed and adapted. one of these important legal frameworks for better functioning and accessibility of smes is the area of public procurement.
we are talking about a very pressing issue because we have heard that on the one hand, people are being exploited, women, young people, in the extraction of ore itself. on the other hand, the huge profits from this trade, in fact the only resource africa has, also go into the hands of criminal terrorist organizations. i therefore support the efforts to bring order to this area, to make europe, which, as we have heard, is a major consumer of these raw materials, make its contribution and make it clear that it wants clarity and transparency in this area. we will ensure that transparency in a way that the revenue from these minerals will also go to the people of africa. yesterday we were talking about development aid for africa. and i think that if we regulate this area of trade in raw materials in the votes today and tomorrow, we will also be making a big step forward in development aid to those who need it most.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation on the draft council decision on the legal protection of services based on or involving conditional access. the eu council decision creates a common legal framework in the eu to combat prohibited devices that allow unauthorised access to pay-tv services. in the legislative process itself, the commission and the eu council have come to different interpretations of the law relating to the signature of the convention itself.
in writing. ‒ many indices and benchmarks have become public goods. it is therefore necessary to increase their social benefits and to limit the damage to the real economy and society resulting from their inappropriate design or manipulation. currently, supervisory authorities exercise control over financial instruments but not over the design and management of indices that determine the risk profile, performance and economic value of these instruments. manipulation of benchmarks, to which millions of housing loans and savings of citizens are linked, can cause significant losses for consumers and it is therefore necessary to ensure their accuracy and robustness and the transparency of the procedures for their determination. the proposal for a regulation we voted on is intended to remedy the shortcomings that have led to fraud scandals in the past. unfortunately, several proposed changes could make the situation worse. for example, the commission should delegate the responsibility for drawing up the list of critical benchmarks to national authorities and withdraw the requirement to disclose the information on which the benchmark calculations are based. a significant gap in the proposal for a regulation is also represented by the proposed amendment which excludes from the definition of critical benchmark benchmarks whose calculations are based on regulated data obtained directly from trading venues. i therefore voted in favour of only those amendments which reduce the gaps in the proposal for a regulation and increase transparency and control of benchmarks.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts. in the european union, we have a problem of trust in our markets because of the manipulation of benchmarks. we should stop these practices. at the end of 2013, the european commission fined eight banks billions of euros for manipulating the libor and euribor rates, which are also used to calculate interest rates for consumer and home loans. i support the introduction of stricter controls on the setting of these interest rates. i supported the report because it creates more transparency.
in writing. ‒ the year 2015 is crucial for global development, with the adoption of the sustainable development goals and the global climate action agreement. 1.5 billion people still live in poverty, where they face lack of health, education and living standards. there are enough resources in the world to make this situation better. the united nations conference on trade and development estimates that developing countries' financing needs for the sustainable development goals are approximately usd 3,9 billion per year, and they are currently underfunded by usd 2,5 billion per year. the cost of inaction will be significantly higher than the cost of decisive action for sustainable development. the development agenda is becoming ever broader and action beyond oda needs to be encouraged by mobilising domestic resources and using innovative financial instruments. the potential of developing countries to mobilise domestic resources is considerable, as it is more predictable and sustainable than foreign aid, and must therefore be a key source of financing. however, public aid and domestic resources are not sufficient to cover all investment needs, and therefore a combination of public and private resources pursuing sustainable and long-term economic, social and environmental objectives is also important. as this report can serve as a financial pillar for achieving the objectives of the post-2015 development agenda, i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on financing for development and the search for new measures to eradicate poverty. the european union is built on the foundations of solidarity and must remain the world's largest donor of development aid. that 1.5 billion people still live in poverty is unacceptable. the deaths of migrants and refugees in the mediterranean are massive. many of these tragedies and deaths could be prevented if people in their countries had more hope and opportunities for a better life. i therefore welcome the special chapter in the report on domestic resource mobilisation and international tax cooperation. i agree that domestic resources are more predictable and sustainable than foreign aid, and that we need to improve, among other things, domestic tax collection in developing countries, and that the commission needs to improve its assistance to these countries in building capacity in the areas of tax administration and public financial management.
in writing. i supported the report of the committee on development (deve), which calls for a global partnership for financing, a prerequisite for achieving the new sustainable development goals. despite the need for shared responsibility, the european union (eu) still has a leading role. among other things, the report calls for a re-commitment of the eu and its member states to 0.7% of oda, with half of the funds going to the least developed countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution concerning the financing for development. i find that it is vital that we, the representatives of the european citizens’, actively support and acknowledge the importance of financing developing countries. one of the main aims of the european union is to promote economic and social progress and this is what the resolution ‘financing for development’ offers us to continue doing.
in writing. ‒ over the past 70 years, antimicrobials have dramatically reduced the number of deaths from infectious diseases. however, overuse and misuse of these drugs have caused many microorganisms to become resistant to them. according to 2011 data, infections caused by drug-resistant microbes kill 25 000 people in the eu every year. healthcare costs and productivity losses due to antimicrobial resistance are estimated at eur 1.5 billion per year. it has been found that less aware people are more likely to use antibiotics. in fact, between 30 and 50 percent of patients either do not take medications prescribed by their doctors or take them without following instructions. one of the main causes of antimicrobial resistance is, therefore, the misuse and overuse of antibiotics. we have a poor understanding of the treatment options for patients without antibiotics. we have the misconception that antibiotics do no harm but can do good, so we rush to antibiotics. bacteria are old, adaptable creatures, so we have to be more careful and use antimicrobials only when they're really needed. as the report contains a series of proposals on how member states can achieve greater awareness among patients of the use of antibiotics, i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report on safer healthcare in europe. it is a report of special importance to all of us. it is very worrying that 8 to 12% of patients are victims of hospital-acquired infections. 25,000 citizens die every year from these infections. in light of this, i would like to draw your attention to the infections in hospitals that make patients sick. many hospitals have cut back on the number of cleanliness and hygiene workers, which should be given more attention. prevention is easier than limiting the spread of infections in hospitals.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on safer healthcare in europe. between 8% and 12% of patients in the eu suffer from adverse events such as care-related infections, drug-related events and complications that occur during or after surgery. perhaps as many as 20-30% of infections could be prevented if hygiene standards and control programs were stricter. the eu council recommendation called on member states to implement measures to raise the level of patient safety. the european commission published a second implementation report and expressed concern about the progress made by certain member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution concerning the ‘safer healthcare in europe’. the annual deaths of 37 000 patients in the eu caused by in—healthcare infections underlines the necessity of this resolution. this resolution will succeed in improving patients’ safety, as it highlights the danger of tight healthcare budgets which have had an impact on patients’ and on hospitals’ staff safety. i believe and hope that by supporting this resolution and also its proper implementation, the death of 37 000 patients will become a thing of the past in the near future.
in writing. ‒ smes have been the driving force behind economic growth and the export policies of the member states. this is also largely the result of new jobs being created. however, all too often they still have difficulties in accessing the fresh capital they need for investment and production expansion, mostly due to administrative obstacles. i therefore supported the report on opportunities for green growth for smes, as it calls on the european commission to adopt additional support measures, both to facilitate access to risk capital in the early stages and to create the urgently needed specific programmes linking educational institutions with measures to support the green economy and entrepreneurship.
in writing. ‒ the report we voted on was produced under the circular economy programme and relates to the green sme action plan, which encourages smes to take advantage of the business opportunities offered by the transition to a green economy. the plan focuses on actions at european level, which are consistent with existing green initiatives to support smes at national and regional level and will be implemented under the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework. the measures shall take into account the potential of resource efficiency and access to green markets for businesses. unfortunately, from the greens/efa's point of view, the report is too vague and too ideological, focusing mainly on reducing regulatory and administrative burdens to promote sme growth and increase access to finance and markets. i did not support the vote on this report and the amendments, since the latter call in particular for a reduction in the regulatory burden and call on the member states to avoid excessive transposition of legislation and to eliminate all redundant and ineffective regulations which constitute market barriers. the commission should also withdraw outdated and restrictive legislative proposals, such as the circular economy 2014 programme.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report on green growth opportunities for smes. small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) are the backbone of the european union's economy, accounting for some 99% of all european enterprises and providing some 75 million jobs. green growth is enabling us to transition to a more sustainable economy. if our consumption stays the same, we'll need 40% more energy in 20 years. i also support the opinion of the committee on budgets, which emphasises the added value of the eu budget in helping smes access finance and international markets, in particular under horizon 2020 and the european structural and investment funds.
in writing. ‒ i supported a report based on the commission's green action plan for smes. most of the amendments support the green economy. it is important to be cautious when adopting green growth policies, as they can be the biggest obstacle rather than opportunity for smes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution concerning the ‘green growth opportunities for smes’ as i agree that the real prosperity of the union can be ensured through the support of the private sector and in particular of european smes. particularly, the green approach that this resolution offers will allow us to recycle products into resources and take advantage of the opportunities that the circular economy offers. i strongly support this resolution as the opportunities addressed to small businesses will increase, and therefore we will enjoy a more competitive european economy.
twenty years ago, i attended a debate on the common security and defence policy at the convention on the future of europe. unfortunately, the direction and dynamics of the debate at the time were not followed by a suitable dynamic of implementation after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, but in the meantime the security situation in our neighbourhood has changed significantly. it turned out that we had a lot of strategic assumptions and miscalculations and we weren't strong enough in prevention activities. the concept of soft and hard power met. we already have a conflict in ukraine on european soil. if we don't do the right thing in time, we'll get the next one in the western balkans. it is not just pro-eu forces at work there. i thank the vice-president/high representative and the rapporteurs for providing such a rich basis for today's debate. the president agreed to raise the question by raising the blue card in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.
answer to the question posed by raising the blue card. i would like to reply to mr jakovčič that i am of course in agreement that this must be done in close contact, within the institutional framework available, in order to develop, in the common interest, a direction which must of course include a credible european perspective for all the countries of the region, and in this context particular attention must be paid to security and defence policy.
today, instability in our neighborhood is growing. it is caused by countries that threaten the financial stability of the euroregion and, consequently, of the european union. it is caused by terrorists for whom europe has become an increasingly real and potential target for their attacks. it is caused by the new russian imperialism which, in defiance of international law, annexes part of the neighboring country. we are also causing it ourselves by not responding properly and in a timely manner to crisis hotspots in our neighbourhood, not in the east, not in the balkans. for example, we have not given macedonia a date to start negotiations for accession to the european union for ten years. and we left her alone, she became vulnerable, and some of the actors who had been clawing at her for a hundred years became active again. so we are also to blame for the escalation of conflicts, as if we have learned nothing from history. respected, the balkans will not be a powder keg again, it deserves all our active involvement. honourable high representative for the common security and defence policy, the move is on your side.
the monetary union, the banking union and the common fiscal policy also include a joint fight against the illicit transfer of funds, which often serves criminal purposes, without respect for the rules and across national borders. in this respect, i welcome the agreement which parliament and the council have agreed without any major complications. at a time when we are talking about a foreign policy strategy and a common security and defence policy, such regulations also fall within the defence of the integrity of the union and its citizens. we know that illicit financial flows often end up in tax havens, and it is therefore also the responsibility of the union to increase pressure on those countries that allow such opportunities to cooperate in combating such illicit financial flows and to improve transparency. in this context, it is also important that the union conducts accession processes in such a way that candidate countries converge on the same principles of preventing criminal and illicit financial flows.
so both documents, and the directive and the regulation, are documents in the right direction. of course, that's no reason to open champagne, because money laundering is actually a very real threat to the stability of the financial system. so if we are spending over a trillion dollars a year in this way, if we are avoiding taxes, if we are creating the conditions in europe itself for tax avoidance to happen, that is clearly not good and i hope that these new rules, when they come into force, will be a step in the right direction. and there's a particular emphasis on transparency in all of these things, including the registry being public, because i completely agree with transparency, of course, in the way that some have said it's like the holy grail, that of course you know it exists, but you can't access it. but i think, of course, this area of money laundering is actually one of the biggest challenges in order to stabilize the economy and finance going forward.
first of all, i would like to congratulate my colleague mr karinč and his fellow rapporteurs on a very good job. today we've already heard that the global economy loses 5% of its output due to money laundering, which of course directly affects poverty, because only criminals and terrorists benefit from this evil. can you imagine a situation where all that money was invested in human capital? what would this mean, especially for poorer countries? new european legislation is introducing effective measures by the police, tax authorities and other authorities to eradicate this social evil. the introduction of the registration of financial actors and the blacklisting of third countries with a high risk of money laundering seem to me to be good measures in the fight against money laundering. finally, a global problem requires a global and of course holistic approach. i believe we are on the right track and that this will make it harder for criminal organizations to operate and clean up the financial economy.
in writing. ‒ the problem of organised crime in connection with money laundering is a constant one. the financial crisis has further exacerbated this phenomenon in recent years. this has led to the emergence of a variety of illegal methods and forms of terrorist financing, which is a growing threat in the eu. as it has long been recognised that the issue goes beyond national action and is becoming a broader, global challenge, member states have committed themselves to reinforce action in this area. those activities are addressed in directive 2005/60/ec on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering and terrorist financing. in view of the increasing activity in these areas, i believe that a revision of the directive was necessary and good. it seems to me that the protection of persons who report suspicion of money laundering or the financing of possible terrorist acts has been increased, as this will make it easier to identify persons/organisations operating in this field. i also think it is important that it is easier and faster to identify the countries involved in these transactions and helping to launder money. for this reason, i supported the adoption of amendments to the directive which will further strengthen the fight against money laundering.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for second reading on the prevention of the use of the financial system for money laundering and terrorist financing. the united nations office on drugs and crime estimates that between $615 billion and $1.54 billion is laundered worldwide each year. these are unimaginable amounts. money laundering is often linked to organised crime, which threatens the security of our society, undermines the legal foundations of a democratic state and threatens the values on which the european union was founded. moreover, money laundering seriously threatens the stability of the financial sector and weakens market power, ultimately resulting in large losses to member states' budgets and the eu budget. in addition to traditional money laundering methods, organised crime groups are increasingly using advanced methods made possible by the internet and other technological innovations. this requires continuing and strengthening the fight against those who abuse freedom of movement and the internal market of the european union, and ensuring the highest standards of anti-money laundering.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution concerning the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering or terrorist financing. terrorist groups and attacks are on the rise globally and it has been proven that they finance their activities through money laundering channels. i strongly believe that this resolution and the existence of clear rules within the eu will contribute to the european parliament’s constant battle against terrorist groups that threaten our cohesion and security.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for a second reading on insolvency proceedings. in some insolvencies, national insolvency law presents a major problem in terms of cross-border activity and the related successful restructuring of insolvent companies. our concern must be to ensure the survival of healthy firms, and we must therefore seek solutions for the effective restructuring of over-indebted and insolvent firms. we must also keep in mind at all times the employees of such companies, who are not responsible for the insolvency of the company, but usually the latter are the ones who draw the shortest end when there is not enough money in the bankruptcy estate to pay off debts to employees. i welcome the possibility for the court to identify the centre of the debtor's main interests and that the place of the debtor's regular business is determined to be the place where the debtor has been operating for at least three months before the opening of insolvency or interim proceedings. it'll give third parties a chance to check the place out. long-term insolvency proceedings, which drag on for several years, are often unsuccessful, and therefore the effective work of insolvency administrators, as well as the supervision of their work, is of great importance.
in writing. ‒ regulation of trade in minerals, which represent the greatest natural wealth of poor african countries, is essential. sadly, the people of these countries receive very little of this wealth, at best suffering even more from the consequences of its unfair exploitation. on the one hand, we have the appalling exploitation of children, women and men, and on the other hand, the millions of dollars of profits made by the traders and smugglers of minerals, which are now in the hands of corrupt associations and paramilitary militias. the horrors of the massacre were also noted by this year's sakharov prize winner, denis mukwege. given that the eu is one of the largest importers of minerals, taking measures to curb the unfair trade and redirect profits from this trade is the first step towards curing one of the most dangerous diseases afflicting the african continent. the disease has resulted in armed conflict and terrorism, poverty, hunger, and, last but not least, millions of refugees. i am convinced that the regulation of the mineral trade is by far the greatest development aid we can offer to african countries. this is the basis for the profits of this trade to remain in the country and be used for development, education and so on. i was pleased to support the proposed regulation introducing certification schemes in the mineral supply chain, thus improving traceability.
in writing. ‒ the greens' party is particularly committed to mandatory transparency for companies involved in the production and sale of minerals, and above all we want the sale of conflict minerals in europe to be banned. the european parliament has voted to make the sale of minerals from conflict or high-risk areas compulsory, and the greens will certainly continue to fight for this requirement to be included in binding legislation. in particular, it was important to cover the entire conflict minerals supply chain. this means that the scope of the review extends from the extraction of mineral resources from conflict-affected and high-risk areas to their use in computers, mobile phones and other electronic equipment, if any. we want to ensure that legislation covers the widest possible range of uses of minerals in everyday consumer products and that the import of conflict minerals into the european union market is prohibited. for this reason, i supported the report and voted for its adoption by the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution concerning the self-certification of importers of minerals and metals originating in conflict-affected and high-risk areas, as i believe that this is a very significant step that parliament should take in order to guarantee and secure the human rights of people living in the conflict minerals zones. with this resolution, it is also very important that european consumers will be able to avoid buying certain products that might consist of conflict minerals, and therefore stop indirectly financing conflicts and illegal armed groups. i strongly believe that this resolution and the creation of a european certification system for smelters and refiners will be the starting point for the further establishment of a transparency mechanism for the entire supply chain and for all key players in the minerals industry.
in writing. ‒ the commission's proposal to amend the maternity leave directive was tabled in 2008 and was designed to give more protection to pregnant workers and workers who have just given birth. the amended directive should help to facilitate the reconciliation of private and professional life. the proposal to amend the directive would extend the minimum duration of maternity leave from 14 to 18 weeks and recommend that workers receive 100% compensation. the protection against termination of employment contracts would also be increased, and women workers would have the right to return to the same or comparable jobs after maternity leave and could apply for flexible working hours. parliament endorsed this proposal in 2010, including a proposal to amend it to extend the length of maternity leave to 20 weeks. unfortunately, the council neither accepted nor rejected the proposal, and consequently the new commission announced that it would withdraw the proposal to amend the directive if the council did not deliver an opinion within six months. as the motion for a resolution addresses the council's irresponsibility, which undermines the whole legislative process, and calls on it to take a position on parliament's proposal and to take responsibility for improving the health and safety of workers, i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this regulation, concerning maternity leave because the european union should renew urgently its maternity leave policy. our continent is facing dramatic changes in social, demographic and financial terms. therefore a more up-to-date regulation for new mothers is needed, so we will be able to cover not only the needs of mothers and their families’ new-born members but also the needs of the financial market.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on the rights of the disabled. there are 80 million disabled people in the european union who should be guaranteed universal rights and be able to integrate fully into society in the fields of education, employment, the labour market and quality leisure time. social inclusion is also one of the objectives of the european union strategy. much has been done, and more work remains to be done. i also supported the resolution because i agree that the problems of people with disabilities must be dealt with in an integrated way and not in a partial way.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities as it will bring significant changes to the lives of people with disabilities, but also immense responsibility for us, the eu. people with disabilities need to be able to enjoy their rights today. we have to guarantee and ensure that people with disabilities will have equal access and equal opportunities and will enjoy social protection and education. this convention can and will be an important step forward for our continent.
in writing. ‒ xylella fastidiosa is a major threat and directly threatens the cultivation of certain agricultural crops in southern europe, such as olives, almonds, peaches, citrus fruits, etc. this bacterium causes a lot of damage to olive groves in the southern italian region of apulia, which could cause a lot of environmental and economic damage for that region. the biggest problem is the unusually rapid spread of the disease to other areas and to plants grown in southern european countries. i am convinced that effective measures must be taken within the eu as soon as possible to prevent the spread of xylella fastidiosa. these measures should be targeted primarily at the most vulnerable agricultural crops and ensure effective protection against the spread of the bacterium. the controls at eu entry points, especially at ports, also need to be tightened up. however, in order to ensure effective control or to prevent the spread of this dangerous bacterium, sufficient financial and human resources should be provided and farmers should be able to benefit from financial support to implement appropriate agricultural practices to combat this dangerous bacterium. i supported the motion for a resolution because i believe it calls on the european commission to take key measures to limit the spread of this bacterium. otherwise, the farmers in these areas face great disaster.
in writing. ‒ in 2013, the olive trees in apulia, southern italy, were decaying. the rapid spread and destructive effects of xylella fastidosa are of great concern. the bacteria is damaging various plants, and in europe, olives are currently the most endangered. in 2013, there were 8000 ha of plantations infected and in 2014 the infected area increased. this phenomenon poses a major threat to olive groves and olive growers in europe and action is therefore necessary to limit or halt the spread of the disease as quickly as possible. the total cutting of olive groves and the use of poisons on vast areas are certainly not acceptable and are ecologically inappropriate. moreover, the possibility exists that cutting down the olive tree will not eradicate the disease, and the destruction of the first million olive trees would result in the destruction of another million. alternative measures such as treatment of olive trees with injection of 'medicines' against the bacterium xylella fastidiosa should be considered. this is a very serious problem if we don't deal with it thoughtfully and quickly. i do not agree with the measures proposed in the resolution and, as a member of the greens, i am also in favour of environmentally friendly measures which do not place additional burdens on nature and vegetation. that is why i voted against the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the outbreak of xyella fastidiosa, which attacks olive trees, as it represents the adoption of measures to combat the serious effects of the bacterium. in slovenia, in slovenian istria, and to a lesser extent in the goriške brda region, olive growing has a very long tradition. there are some 1,900 hectares of olive groves in slovenia. although slovakia's olive oil production is negligible compared to other olive oil producing member states, olive oil is of high quality. i supported this resolution, which calls attention to the catastrophic situation facing olive growers. i also support the development of appropriate guidelines for measures to combat the spread of this disease.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution concerning the ‘outbreak of xylella fastidiosa affecting olive trees’ in southern europe, as we should act immediately and secure the eu’s olive oil production but also the main source of income of thousands southern europeans. it is our mission to find solutions and take effective measures, so we should prevent the further spread of this bacterium. the european parliament should safeguard not only eu olive oil and olive production but should also take all the necessary measures so that xylella fastidiosa will not attack other plants. i believe that this resolution is extremely significant since xyllela fastidiosa is an enemy of europe’s agriculture, its tourism and therefore its economy and demands an immediate solution and action.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, mr commissioner, i too would like to thank you for your excellent words and for the very precise introduction you have given us to this debate. we have recently supported macedonia in this parliament by a large majority as the country we want to join the european union, stressing that for many years it has fulfilled most of the conditions for opening accession negotiations. the only reason why this has not happened before and at a time when we have opened the door to candidates who are lagging behind macedonia in many respects is the absurd dispute over the name of the country. unfortunately, the reason for today's debate is not just a desire to reiterate a positive attitude towards macedonia's progress as a candidate, but a serious political crisis with the tragic events in kumanov, which reminded us that there are still known interstate and interethnic problems in this part of southeast europe, to which we must add new threats of aggressive islamic chauvinism and already transparent attempts to involve macedonia in russia's geostrategic plans. the situation in macedonia requires more understanding from the european union for this potential member. it is time to find a compromise on the name or to start negotiations with macedonia and to eliminate this problem until they are concluded. in the context of the overall concept of collective security in europe, macedonia should be supported in its efforts to become a member of nato. the opposition of our neighbour greece, a country which expects and enjoys our help and solidarity, must be rejected and this country must be called upon to take account of common interests. there's some bizarre things going on these days. today, the albanian prime minister threatened to block macedonia's entry into nato. macedonian politicians, who are responsible for exacerbating the internal crisis, must take responsibility for the country's euro-atlantic future. just yesterday, after more than ten hours of negotiations with the leaders of the two largest parties in macedonia, we adopted in parliament a platform to overcome the crisis through dialogue. may the agreement reached be the beginning of the end of the political crisis and of a serious effort to stabilise the country!
blue-card answer.– i would just like to say that i think that, in these times when we are facing far more important issues in this world, this problem looks like an artificial conflict, and i would say stop it. it makes no sense anymore.
first of all, i would like to thank commissioner stylianidis for his clear words. the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, as a candidate country, is facing an internal political crisis and a multi-year blockage in the opening of accession negotiations. following the tragic incident in kumanovo, the political stabilisation of the country is even more important for it and for the wider region than before. in this context, i welcome and support the initiation of a political dialogue between the opposition and the opposition, including the parties of the macedonian albanians, which should lead to the normal functioning of the macedonian parliament and transfer to it the political debate on the key issues of the country. i am grateful to commissioner hahn and to my colleagues kukana, howitta and weigla for all their efforts in support of the said dialogue. i also welcome the political culture at the political rallies of the past few days. i would like to call for a negotiating dynamic that will allow the joint parliamentary committee, which is a necessary element in the candidate's accession process, to function fully after a long period of time. i am convinced that in the interests of political stability, a better neighbourhood and a credible european perspective, it is necessary and possible to make progress in the accession process that is beneficial to all without losing face. we must do everything we can to ensure that internal, not external, causes do not lead to a new conflict on european soil. let us not underestimate the political, interethnic, interreligious and post-totalitarian aspects of the western balkans, which have not yet eliminated all sources of instability. stability, security and the european perspective of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia are not in its interest alone and therefore not its responsibility alone. (the speaker agreed to accept the question raised by the blue card (rule 162 (8)).
answer to the question posed by raising the blue card. so, if you were born in greek macedonia, then i can hardly imagine what you would call yourself as someone from skopje, as you said. but i don't see the big deal. everyone has an identity and can live accordingly, whether they live here or there.
a country that has developed so successfully over the past decade is undergoing a severe test. there are at least two reasons for the destabilisation of macedonia. the first is political. the opposition socialists, after a heavy defeat in the elections, according to the government, boycott, demonstrate, even bug the government, and at the same time accuse the government of being bugged. given the sharpness of the socialist move, we can see that we have seen a similar story in the case of bulgaria and slovenia, as well as hungary. the terrorist attack in kumanovo is another reason for destabilization. it could even spark an inter-ethnic conflict. in the last decade, macedonia has successfully managed to resolve interethnic relations on the basis of comprehensive inclusion. but the macedonian albanians demanded faster european integration at the cost of constructive posture. i think that if european integration were to happen faster, the situation in macedonia and the region would be more stable. i fear that vulnerable macedonia will fall victim to various interests if we do not help it in time.
macedonia is in a very difficult situation and if we were talking a few months ago about macedonia, about its path towards european integration and meeting the conditions for this, we can now see that peace is of course an extremely fragile category. what or where is stuck in the case of macedonia, of course before it shows real time, how much it was influenced by external factors, how much there are conspiracy theories, how much of course wants to influence the geostrategic position of macedonia from one side or the other... the fact is that macedonia has become a barrel of explosives which can explode and seriously threaten the region, and that is why parliament must also play an active role. i would like to thank mr vajgl, mr kukana and mr howitta in particular for their work so far and, above all, wish them much courage, wisdom and impartiality in continuing this difficult task. (the speaker agreed to accept the question raised by the blue card (rule 162 (8)).
answer to the question posed by raising the blue card. i think this is a very relevant question and we have heard some of the answers in today's debate. it is true that macedonia's path to the european union has been dragging on for a long time, and it is clear that this has had its consequences. and i would also point out that macedonia is one of the countries in the region where peace is fragile, and i would also point out bosnia and herzegovina, which has also been in this process for some time, not so much, but nevertheless they also point out that some activities must be started in time to avoid the problems we are seeing in macedonia.
i think you'll take my word for it in the end, because it's hard to say a complicated thing very quickly and concisely. both the eastern partnership and the union for the mediterranean were innovations in european policy that did not work, did not work for a long time, and that is why we are talking today about the need for a thorough revision. both organizations have become prisoners of open bilateral issues and geostrategic interests. but i think that we have to look for the meaning of both, not in the expansion of political influence, but in the expansion of the space of freedoms, the space of values that we share and that we want to be in this part of the world. i still believe that if we understood the role of partnerships in this way, then the war in ukraine would not be inevitable.
on behalf of the ppe group. a good year ago, we adopted here, without a vote, a resolution on the negotiations for the conclusion of a strategic partnership agreement between the european union and japan. it aims to define a number of areas of strategic cooperation, including science, environment, climate change and fisheries management. it seems to me that, following the clear judgment of the international court of justice and japan's response to it, it is right to place the question of whales also in the context of the efforts to conclude the agreement in question, in which one of the fundamental starting points is respect for and enforcement of the principles of international law. i assume that the european union and japan also share the view that biodiversity is important in a global context. i expect japan, like other countries whose fishermen still hunt whales, not only to follow the international court of justice's decision, but to regulate its scientific interest in whales in accordance with international rules, with a growing awareness of the endangerment of whales and with attention to the european parliament's 2012 resolution in which we advocated the end of whaling for scientific purposes.
the investment plan announced by commission president juncker, the measures taken by the european central bank, the positive economic climate, also due to the low oil price, are all circumstances that are in our favour. we are all aware that we still have problems within europe, in european economies, the balance of budgets is still a problem in many countries, reforms are needed in public administration, pension reform, reform of labour law, the education system needs to be changed in many places. we simply cannot use economic growth at this moment to transfer it to consumption on the basis of this economic growth from hand to mouth, as we say in slovenia, but we must actually reform the countries well. and another piece of advice: we should not look for problems outside the borders of the member states, we should solve most of the problems within the member states themselves.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy. there are few crises and conflicts in the world where the european union does not play a role. i understand the implementation of the common security and defence policy as the european union taking responsibility for its own security and for the security of all of us. at the moment, the implementation of the common security and defence policy is not yet at a satisfactory level. although each country has its own national security and defence policy and many member states are involved in nato, i am convinced that the implementation of the european union's common security and defence policy must be further strengthened and upgraded. that's why i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report which states that the eu is surrounded by crisis and conflict as never before. it also regrets that the eu still lacks a common strategy to deal with the new challenges that threaten its security. it also highlights the structural shortfall linked to missions and operations under the common security and defence policy. it also calls for the potential of the lisbon treaty to be exploited, in particular articles 41, 42 and 46 of the eu treaty and article 222 of the tfeu. the report welcomes the framework of the common cyber defence policy, while warning of the uncontrolled reduction of defence budgets. it must reach at least 2% of gdp.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the financing of the common security and defence policy. the vote on the report comes at a time when we are facing various crises and conflicts, including those close to home. the european union and its member states provide significant funding for various peace operations around the world. i think that no one can deny that the mediation of the common security and defence policy is important for achieving peace. i also supported the report because it calls on member states to take a more decisive stance towards conflict prevention, post-conflict reconstruction and the maintenance of lasting peace in conflict zones.
in writing. i supported the report on security and defence capabilities in europe because it deals with important topics that are highly sensitive in the area of the common security policy in europe. the main problems we face in the field of security and defence are mainly market fragmentation, inefficiency, poor transparency, corruption, poor governance and a lack of clear and rigorous internal market rules. the many dilemmas and suspicions of eu citizens are not unfounded. especially in a time of not only economic crisis, but also crisis hotspots that are creating rivers of refugees on the edge of europe. with terrorism the subject of many summit meetings, calls for more and more defense resources are not surprising. but are they really necessary? in fact, eu countries are estimated to spend just 0.7% of gdp on ending poverty worldwide, while an average of 2.0% of gdp is spent on financing development for defence and arms. at this point, we can ask ourselves what the priorities of european foreign policy are. the means of defence are sometimes a bottomless bag, especially because their use is opaque and carried out in the name of covert procurement. only in this way can confidence be restored that the misuse of money for military equipment is really in the interests of eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the impact of the development of european defence markets on security and defence capabilities in europe, as i believe that the european union must establish a system that will allow a rapid and effective response to the various crises in europe and in our neighbourhood. the single european defence market will make all this possible, as the report rightly points out, by eliminating duplication and reducing administrative burdens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution concerning security and defence capabilities in europe, since security is, and will continue being, one of the key priorities of the eu. i strongly believe that all member states should correctly implement defence package directives, in order to better spend their taxpayers’ money on defence equipment. also, i would like to underline the importance of our continent’s role as a security provider, which should be deployed to a great extent.
i support schemes to promote healthy eating in children. in many countries, they have been well established and therefore well accepted. where the national bureaucracy over-regulated and complicated the implementation level, the project failed. i remember that it was because of bureaucratic obstacles that the schools in slovenia gradually dropped out of the milk scheme. i also support the new joint scheme. i have no doubt that the house will support it. i want the project to be as open, flexible, broad and as unconstrained and complex as possible. healthy eating for children is important. when i was the minister of education, i introduced free hot meals for all students. the project was very well received, especially by pupils, but somewhat less so by school management. when the new government came, unfortunately, they canceled the project. this government was a left-wing government.
in writing. healthy nutrition for children and adolescents is essential during the growth and development phase, as the energy and nutritional value of meals are important for energy, everyday functioning, growth and development of the body and psychosocial development. consumption of fresh fruit and vegetables in europe fell between 2005 and 2010 and this is a cause for concern. the decline in fruit consumption is 9.4 percent and in vegetables 10.3 percent. among the many factors that determine a healthy diet, the adequate intake of fruits and vegetables plays a special role. according to who research, insufficient consumption of fruit and vegetables ranked as the fourth highest attributable risk factor for premature mortality in the eu. a diet that includes a variety of fruits and vegetables every day is very important for children to increase the nutritional value of meals and to maintain the recommended body weight. the european union for the study of obesity estimates that between 12 million and 16 million children in europe are overweight. and the number of overweight children is between 3 and 4.5 million. all these reasons clearly demonstrate the urgent need to introduce healthy eating habits at an early age through educational institutions, since a well-organized school diet is one of the most effective ways of correcting unhealthy (family) eating habits and also contributes to reducing social disparities.
according to unicef, worldwide more than 700 million women are married before the age of 18, and 250 million are married before the age of 15. these are unimaginable figures, and they show that we still have a lot of hard work ahead of us in the fight against discrimination against women and in achieving gender equality. i am very pleased that slovenia was one of the first countries to sign the istanbul convention, which sets out obligations to prevent violence against women, and ratified it at the end of last year. the legal framework for combating discrimination against women is thus established, but we need more decisive steps in the fight to achieve gender equality. in this light, i believe that the information campaign to raise awareness among our citizens about this type of violence should be strengthened, as the figures show that in some countries there is a very high percentage of adolescent girls who have been victims of violence and have never sought help.
it is therefore of concern that the slovenian public fund for human resources development and scholarships has been reduced to such an extent as to no longer be able to apply for ad futura scholarships for study visits under the erasmus+ programme for the academic year 2015/2016 in 2015. students will thus not be able to receive the €150 per month erasmus+ grant supplement, and study exchange or traineeships abroad are a considerable financial burden, which many students can only afford with financial aid. the sad fact is that, because of their unfavorable material circumstances, many have not been able to take part in foreign exchange programs. we can conclude that the withdrawal of the allowance will make the situation worse, and recall that the eurostudent survey in 2013 showed that only 2% of students go on exchange, while a much higher number, 18%, wanted to go. the reasons, of course, are purely financial. the 2014 impact study of the eu erasmus student exchange programme shows that graduates with international experience are much better placed in the market. i therefore appeal to the competent slovenian institutions to reconsider the consequences of the changed conditions and the compensation for the co-financing loss.
in writing. ‒ i naturally supported the proposed decision to open interinstitutional negotiations, as it would provide a faster path to the adoption of a regulation and thus to ensuring healthy food for our youngest. the purpose of both schemes, which are combined in the proposed regulation into a single aid scheme for the supply of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk to educational establishments, is to encourage children to adopt healthier eating habits. given the importance of this scheme, which will be supported by at least eur 230 million, and its early start of implementation, today's decision by the european parliament is a clear signal to member states to take a more responsible approach to the negotiation of the regulation and to adopt it together with the ep as soon as possible. this will allow the implementation of the joint scheme to start and will meet the interests and health of primary school children across the eu. i am pleased that the proposed regulation pays greater attention to educating children about the importance of a healthy diet and the importance of products of local or regional origin such as honey, olives, olive oil, dried fruit, etc. for slovenia, where an exceptionally small number of schools have been included in the milk supply aid scheme, it is crucial that the proposed regulation is adopted as soon as possible, as this would allow slovenian schools to draw almost eur 300 000 of european funding per year for the free distribution of milk and milk products to primary school children.
in writing. ‒ consumption of fresh fruit and vegetables fell in europe between 2005 and 2010. the decline in fruit consumption is 9.4 percent and in vegetables 10.3 percent. the situation is similar for the total consumption of dairy products in the eu. this decreased by 5% between 2006 and 2011. the european union for the study of obesity estimates that between 12 million and 16 million children in europe are overweight. and the number of overweight children is between 3 and 4.5 million. excess weight already during childhood has a negative impact on health and well-being. for this reason, it is vital to instill healthy eating habits at an early age through educational institutions. the european union has been running a scheme to distribute fresh milk to schools since 1977. the schemes for the distribution of fruit and vegetables in school establishments are similar. the school fruit scheme reached more than 8 million children from 54,000 schools in the 2010/2011 school year. in terms of quantity, 44,000 tons of fruit and vegetables were distributed. since i believe it is important that the existing system of distribution of healthy food is used in the future and since it is also essential to inform children about the importance of healthy eating, i voted in favour of adopting the report and opening negotiations with the european council.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision on the opening and the mandate for interinstitutional negotiations on an aid scheme for the supply of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk to educational establishments. today, we face an increasing number of overweight children because of poor dietary habits that include highly processed foods, with large amounts of added sugar, salt, fat, and additives. according to the oecd, overweight has become a global problem, with research showing that one in five children between the ages of 5 and 17 living in one of the 34 oecd member countries is overweight. slovenia is ranked fourth on this scale. i agree with the report that schools should be encouraged to distribute fresh fruit and vegetables rather than processed products. this should be included in the objectives of the school curriculum. we must give priority to local and organic products and ensure that children are made aware of the diversity of agricultural production.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the aid scheme for the supply of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk in educational establishments across the european union. it is our responsibility as the european parliament to promote an active lifestyle and healthy eating habits, starting at an early age. the number of overweight children in the eu has significantly increased, reaching 20 million, and a change of direction, towards improving health through the daily consumption of fruit and vegetables, is urgently needed. my hope is that, by supporting this aid scheme, we will see young europeans, who are the future of our continent, embracing a healthier way of living and eating.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your time. so i myself support this regulation on the adjustment of the rate of payments for 2015 to be paid in 2016, and the fact is that in this case too, if we want to give something, we must also take from another source and all the more necessary is, of course, also the proper control of the use of these funds. these funds will also be used to alleviate the effects of the crisis, and i think it is extremely important that we have a clear idea of the criteria which the commission will use to allocate these funds, that these criteria are properly and fairly assessed and that, of course, the control of these funds is then defined. to avoid a situation where we can of course also talk about irregularities here in parliament later, we would like to draw particular attention to both the expediency and the correctness of the use of these funds, even if it is a question of crisis.
mr. chairman, thank you for your time, ladies and gentlemen. i fully support the report on the european union strategy for equality between women and men after 2015 and congratulate the rapporteur. it is an ambitious report, which actually brings to mind things that have been happening for many years, and i think it is good that we are talking about this topic today, because gender equality is one of the fundamental values of the european union, which has already been recognised in the treaties and the charter of fundamental rights. despite the fact that the european union is working to strengthen gender equality, unfortunately at the moment it seems that this process is far from being completed, and even more so that in recent years this process has even slowed down somewhat, perhaps also because the strategy of the previous commission was somewhat too weak. the new strategy will therefore have to give new impetus and lead to concrete actions to strengthen women's rights and promote gender equality. i think, of course, that in these times, we cannot remain bound to useless and also environmentally unsustainable economic models based on the outdated division of labor based on gender. the economic crisis has certainly contributed to this, for, as the honourable member said before me, it has forced many women into this deplorable situation and has actually deepened poverty in some areas. so, of course, it is also the task of the european union to prepare, in addition to reports and strategies, the appropriate economic and financial incentives to reduce gender inequalities, because this is one of the key issues if we want to move these differences forward. of course, we can talk about equality at the declaratory level, but if we do not do the same for gender equality as we did for youth employment in the ageing population, that is, with economic incentives, we will of course be talking about the same problem next year. i think that a more decisive step is needed here, and what my colleagues say, that this is of course a subsidiarity issue, that this is of course also a family issue, that this is an internal problem, is also not true. of course, this is an issue that needs to be brought to the fore, and in fact, most violence against women happens within the closed circle, within the family, and it is our job to bring these things to the fore. and of course subsidiarity is also a subject which will certainly be discussed in the future, but i think the european union's role here is very clear, and that is why i support this report. - thank you. - thank you. (the speaker agreed to accept the question raised by the blue card (rule 162 (8)).
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. these are values that you speak of, which were created long ago and are woven into the fabric of civilizations. unfortunately, human beings have interfered with these values in an unacceptable way, in a way that has actually begun to increase disparities in various areas and has actually threatened these values. i therefore think it is right to use subsidiarity, which is of course a concept that is also embedded in the treaty, logically, carefully and only when it can help to safeguard these values. - thank you. - thank you.
thank you so much for your words. i will focus my speech on an area that is very important to me, one that i believe gender equality has not yet fully achieved, and is also one of the areas where progress could be made relatively quickly. it's about women's participation in entrepreneurship and it's about women's participation in leadership positions in the economy. it is unacceptable that there are still large disparities in the participation of men and women in the really top, most important positions where the most important decisions are taken. the fact is that european women have a higher level of education than their male counterparts. and also, various studies show that a balance between women and men in leadership positions can lead to an improvement in european competitiveness and, of course, to a better position in international markets. but why doesn't it happen that way? if we really want to make progress, we have to make changes in the education system itself. it is the education system that must be directed towards promoting entrepreneurship and generally breaking the stereotype of so-called male bosses. stereotyped leadership still prevails in business, in politics, and in our entire society. and i think that the european commission and the european parliament have done a great deal, and i hope that the council will also find a suitable solution and continue negotiations on the 'women on board directive'. of course, the responsibility is always primarily with the member states themselves and it is clear that the quota system is producing results, although i have some reservations about it.
we recently received a eurostat study that tried to sketch out the different dimensions of our quality of life, our well-being. it means a certain standard of living or access to goods and services. i was particularly struck by the fact that higher education can mean a better future, a better quality of life, and a higher standard of living. but is that really the case? then why do we have a so-called lost generation? why are so many highly educated young people in the european union without suitable jobs? we have a number of strategies, reports, we are doing everything at european level to ensure a decent future for young people, but we simply do not yet share the results to the extent we want. are we doing everything right, and should we not make some changes in this area?
i am absolutely convinced of the following: that the pursuit of a strategic partnership based on shared values and principles between the european union and russia was the right intention; that war is the worst possible way to resolve the issues of interethnic coexistence in ukraine as well as relations between russia and ukraine; that the military violence on european soil is a tragic paradox, contrary to the political development since the fall of the berlin wall and a threat to peaceful development in the region; that no country that voluntarily shares european values and principles with the european union is a threat to any other country in the world; that without respect for the rules of international law and agreements, there can be no progress towards mutual trust, without which there can be no partnership.
in writing. ‒ although the proposed regulation, which i supported, is an annual adaptation to the current situation, it is a small but not insignificant piece in the puzzle of adapting more quickly to changes in the eu agricultural market. the eu's contingency reserve will amount to some eur 441 million in 2016, so it is crucial that these funds are spent prudently. that reserve is created by applying the reduction in direct payments through the financial discipline mechanism at the beginning of each year. the cap provisions for the financing of market-related expenditure and direct payments provide for the fixing of an adjustment rate for direct payments in the event that the forecasts for the financing of measures indicate that the applicable annual ceilings have been exceeded. therefore, in order to ensure equal treatment of farmers, the proposed regulation provides that the adjustment rate is to apply only to payments for which aid applications have been lodged in the calendar year to which the financial discipline applies, irrespective of when the payment to farmers is made. for 2015, the adjustment rate will therefore be 1,393041%, which means that any subsidies paid on the basis of an aid application of at least eur 2000 will be reduced by that percentage.
in writing. ‒ the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council fixing the adjustment rate for direct payments provided for in council regulation (ec) no 1306/2013 for the calendar year 2015 was proposed by the committee on agriculture and rural development. it states that financial estimates indicate that eur 441,6 million is needed to cover the agricultural crisis reserves. this reserve will be included in the commission's budget for 2016 and will require the application of the financial discipline mechanism to cover it in calendar year 2015. the european parliament and the council of the european union have therefore adopted a regulation reducing aid applications by an adjustment rate of 1,393041% for the calendar year 2015. this rate shall apply to amounts of direct payments exceeding eur 2000 granted to farmers following an aid application. as the adjustment rates are only introduced gradually for bulgaria, romania and croatia, the reduction is not taken into account for applications from the latter countries. i think the report on the proposal for a regulation is a good one and i voted for its adoption.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the setting of the adjustment rate for direct payments for calendar year 2015. the purpose is to create a crisis reserve to support agricultural production in times of crisis, such as the russian embargo. it's about solidarity in action. i would point out that very clear conditions must be laid down for beneficiaries and that the distribution of funds must also be monitored. in the long term, however, we must put in place the instruments to deal with the crisis. we can't wait for the next crisis.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the setting of the adjustment rate for direct payments for calendar year 2015. to protect the agricultural sector in the event of major crises, we must provide reserves. we will do this by reducing direct payments through the mechanism of financial discipline. the amount of the direct payment should be reduced by 1,393041% in all member states except bulgaria, croatia and romania.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution on the adjustment rate for direct payments in respect of 2015. i believe that the establishment of rules for direct payments to farmers is a very important element of the eu budget 2016. we ought to support the agricultural sector and agricultural production and also underline the importance of this draft resolution as a very good first step to take for the simplification of application forms for small farmers.
in writing. ‒ it is unfortunate that a report on the eu strategy for equality between women and men pretending to bring light to the empowerment of genders, finishes proposing actions which are out of scope, directly violating the principle of subsidiarity on issues related to the family, health and education. it is unacceptable that the report aims at providing political legitimation for the eu to make access to abortion and population control the political priority of the international development policy after 2015, in clear contradiction to the ruling of the ecj in the case of brüstle v greenpeace, in which it was unanimously stated that ‘life begins after conception’ and against the universal declaration of human rights, article 3, which says that ‘everyone has the right to life, liberty and security of person’, including the unborn. this is also recognised in the international covenant on civil and political rights, and other international human rights instruments. there exists no right to abortion under international law, either by way of treaty obligation or under customary international law and no united nations treaty can accurately be cited as recognising a right to abortion. therefore i support the alternative resolution tabled on behalf of the epp group.
in writing. ‒ the report on the post-2015 gender equality strategy focuses on the fundamental rights of women and men. the year 2015 saw the completion of the un millennium development goals, which included the goal of promoting gender equality. in addition, the european commission is conducting research on the impact of the eu strategy on gender equality between 2010 and 2015. the latter show that today the division of labour between men and women is still based on economic models that are not environmentally sustainable. that certainly needs to change. gender equality needs to be integrated into all programmes, civil initiatives and actions. respect for the rights of the lgbti community and support for broader strategies against discrimination between men and women are needed. the commission was invited to include sexual and reproductive health rights in its next strategy and to work more actively to reduce gender gaps. the wage and pension gap remains high, which is unchanged. in addition, sex education should be implemented in schools and better access to information should be provided to young people in order to reduce discrimination on grounds of sex. for the reasons set out above, i supported and voted in favour of the adoption of the report on the strategy for equality between women and men after 2015.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the eu strategy for equality between women and men after 2015. we need to tap into the talents and qualifications of women. the presence of women on the boards and in high positions is a good thing. i'm a big supporter of gender equality, and i agree that we need to close the gender gap. however, i voted against the report because i believe that in this area we respect subsidiarity and that we respect the individual member states and do not interfere in the affairs of others. there are some areas in the report that go beyond the bounds of subsidiarity. it's not good, it can be harmful.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the eu strategy for equality between women and men after 2015. gender equality is slowly moving forward, but there is still much work to be done, and the report has not answered all my concerns. for me, it is a very important area, one where i believe gender equality has not yet been fully achieved and one where progress could be made relatively quickly. it is about women's participation in entrepreneurship and leadership. it is unacceptable that there are still large differences in the participation of men and women in the highest positions in politics and in large economic societies, and that the ratio is also in favour of men in business. the fact is that european women have a higher level of education than their male counterparts. various studies also show that a balance between women and men in management positions can lead to an improvement in europe's competitiveness in international markets. but if we really want to make progress, we have to make changes in the education system itself to encourage entrepreneurship in general and to break the stereotype of male bosses.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report concerning the eu strategy for gender equality, as i believe it is high time the commission adopts a strategy for women’s rights and also for gender equality in europe. this report addresses many important issues, from sex discrimination to the gender pay gap, very significant problems of our societies that we should not pretend do not exist. unfortunately, gender based inequalities are happening constantly in our continent, therefore the importance of this report is tremendous.
in writing. ‒ i also supported the report proposed, as i am aware that a higher level of awareness of the protection of intellectual property rights or the prevention of infringements resulting from them can mean a more competitive european economy. we all encounter infringing goods, services, visual or digital products on a daily basis. it is therefore of the utmost importance that the eu, where 39% of all economic activities and some 56 million jobs are generated in sectors based on the intensive use of intellectual property rights, intensifies the fight against infringements of intellectual property rights and thus protects and strengthens its own economy. i am convinced that the protection of intellectual property rights and appropriate measures to combat infringements of intellectual property rights can make a significant contribution to the fight against organised crime, money laundering and tax evasion and thus to the development of a fairer, more sustainable and innovation-friendly market. the rapid pace of global digitisation is increasingly raising the issue of the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights in the digital world. of course, we can watch the latest movie online for free or download the entire album of our favorite artists. we rarely think that a particular service, product, movie, or song is a lot of hard work that deserves a fair wage. but in the long run, that kind of thinking is going to cost us all.
in writing. ‒ the debate on the fair balance between the interests of rightholders and end-users is multifaceted and extremely complex, as economic interests are on all sides and need to be reconciled. the protection of intellectual property rights in third countries should be considered as a necessary first step, but still insufficient to establish access to the third country market. the ability to effectively exercise recognised intellectual property rights depends on good protection, including effective enforcement and remedies in a given country. the commercial nature of many ipr infringements and the involvement of organised crime is becoming an increasing problem. i believe that the current strategy does not sufficiently recognise the distinction between physical counterfeiting of trademarks and patents on the one hand and copyright infringements, particularly in the digital environment, on the other. the protection of intellectual property is also given excessive importance. the principles of the agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights also need to be safeguarded. i think the strategy should be more adapted to the digital environment. an informed, balanced and more transparent strategy is needed, involving all parties and representing private and public interests equally. given all the shortcomings in the current strategy, i voted against the adoption of the report on the strategy for the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights in third countries.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the strategy for the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights in third countries. the last decade has seen tremendous speeds of technological development in fast-growing countries. given that in 2013 customs authorities in the eu detained almost 36 million items suspected of infringing intellectual property rights, and the fact that one of the priorities of the europe 2020 strategy is smart growth, knowledge-based development and innovation in the knowledge-based economy, i support the call for the commission to involve stakeholders more in the debate on intellectual property rights.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the strategy for the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights in third countries. exactly two years after the rejection of acte, the commission published a communication on the basics of an eu strategy for the protection of intellectual property rights in third countries in july 2014. it would certainly be helpful to harmonise the rules on intellectual property rights within the eu. this would make it easier to protect these rights vis-à-vis third countries. according to the latest statistics from 2012, there were as many as 90 thousand such violations. it is necessary to ensure a fair balance between the interests of rightholders and end-users. a distinction should be made between individual developing countries, taking into account their specific circumstances. i am thinking here of china in particular.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on strategy for the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights in third countries, as we need a legal framework for intellectual property rights holders. the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights is a very important step to take but not the only one, since further assistance should be considered for developing countries wishing to improve their intellectual property rights systems. thanks to this report the eu can now protect efficiently its creative industries and jobs, especially if it is combined with further support of institutions such as the european observatory on infringements of intellectual property rights.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposed report for similar reasons as the report on intellectual property rights in third countries. infringement of intellectual property rights and counterfeiting are hindering growth, job creation, innovation and creativity, and are causing both intangible and economic damage to european businesses. countries also suffer, as this causes them great economic and fiscal losses. it is therefore necessary to strengthen the control of online sales of goods, as an increasing number of counterfeit physical goods are sold via online marketplaces. the authorities of the member states have limited powers to control sales, and the need to involve the owners of marketplaces in efforts to combat infringements of intellectual property rights is therefore essential. the latter should be involved in efforts to remove counterfeit goods from their platforms and prohibit the use of these platforms by sellers of such goods. i would also highlight the cultural and creative sectors, where intellectual property rights are often used very intensively. these sectors generate around 4.5% of gdp and employ up to 8.5 million people in the eu. they are therefore essential to ensure cultural diversity and make a significant contribution to social and economic development. but inadequate protection of intellectual property rights can change that picture dramatically. i also agree that intellectual property rights continue to be regarded as an important factor in the competitiveness of the european economy.
in writing. ‒ the report on intellectual property rights (eu action plan) states that enforcement of intellectual property rights is essential for job creation, growth in the union and the smooth functioning of the single market. the report does, however, offer an improvement in the intellectual property rights themselves and awareness of them. some amendments were adopted concerning fundamental rights and judicial review. unfortunately, the report focuses too much on strengthening intellectual property rights and increasing the obligations of internet service providers. a broader and more diverse debate is needed on the actual contribution of enhanced intellectual property rights. these should mainly support business development and small and medium-sized enterprises. the involvement of all actors in the supply chain in the processes of combating ipr infringement is also a concern. this approach is too one-sided and problematic. in general, intellectual property rights do not represent a significant source of funding for research projects. this is based on the assumption that universities and other publicly funded research institutions do not sell their research to private companies. the importance of the predictability of the law should be emphasised. fundamental rights require judicial review, which cannot be exercised by commercial operators. i voted against the report on intellectual property rights because of the problems mentioned.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on progress towards a renewed consensus on the enforcement of intellectual property rights: an eu action plan. i supported the report because of the high level of intellectual property infringement in the european union and the resulting damage. i am also aware of the importance of innovation and new technologies for the development of the european union's competitiveness and for the eu's economic development. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on progress towards a renewed consensus on the enforcement of intellectual property rights: an eu action plan. in july 2014, the commission presented an action plan, which is the first step towards building an effective policy for the enforcement of intellectual property rights. intellectual property rights are a key driver of development and growth. protecting these is important to enhance the eu's competitiveness. according to the latest statistics, about 39% of eu gdp and 26% of all employment in the eu comes from industries that are strongly linked to the protection of intellectual property rights. it is necessary to point out the complexity of effectively dealing with infringements, especially when we are talking about the international web.
in writing. energy security is of great importance to the european union. all our goals for more jobs, for economic growth and also for a better global position of the eu are based on our economy. and that, in addition to our households, needs a secure supply of electricity. we can't afford power outages these days. it is necessary to provide the appropriate infrastructure, which will be key to ensuring energy security throughout the european union. i agree, it is also important to define the wider meaning of energy policy in the eu. the energy security report should be the basis for a long-term strategy. europe can't be worried every winter about russia cutting off its gas supply. we need to come together and look at what we can do within the eu. what are our opportunities, and where can we improve? only by working together in this area will we be able to stand up to the external suppliers who have power over this area.
on behalf of the s&d group. thank you, commissioner, and thank you to mr de mera for your cooperation. what is the purpose of smart borders? to make europe more attractive or to build new walls? right now, this debate is going in the wrong direction. spending money on a new system, new technology is anything but smart. especially if the commission does not take into account our concerns about data protection and costs almost 800 million euros. we're focusing too much on security, out of proportion to the risk that exists. i am particularly concerned about the extent of access to data by judicial authorities in the renewal of the proposal. the question of who will store and process the data and how this will affect the fundamental rights of passengers is a very serious one. i would like to point out that the socialists and the democrats have a very clear red line, and i am glad that you are aware of that. my next concern is that we have never heard a detailed answer in parliament: will the costs that europeans will have to pay for the new technologies, the new system, justify the purpose of the project? i admit i'm very skeptical. experts and professionals point to other solutions. improved border management and easier passage for travellers could be achieved by upgrading the existing vis system, where we already collect biometric data on visa holders for entry into the union. with a simple operation, we could extend this system to those travelers who do not need visas to enter. why not use these systems, like sis2? last but not least, the proposal for a programme for registered passengers, for which i am the rapporteur. if this is not included in the new proposal, we will lose even the glimmer of hope that the purpose of the legislation in question, which is to make it easier for third-country nationals to cross the border, was sincere. i know that we all want the same thing, commissioner: an attractive, free and secure europe. i urge you to take all these concerns into account when preparing your renewal proposal. almost 800 million euros, or at least part of that money, could be put to much more meaningful use. for example, to provide emergency rescue and aid to refugees dying in the mediterranean today. what we don't want to do is to set up a system, a new smart border, which would mean in practice two things: a waste of money and new unnecessary barriers for passengers. that would be anything but smart boundaries or smart. thank you so much.
in writing. regarding the relations between the european union and russia, i consider that russia's illegal annexation of crimea, direct and indirect participation in the armed conflict in ukraine and violation of georgia's territorial integrity are a violation of democratic and international principles. moreover, russia's economic coercion and political destabilisation of its european neighbours is a deliberate violation of international law. in the light of the above, the european union needs to thoroughly assess its relationship with russia and prepare a comprehensive plan for the future of its relations with russia and its eastern neighbours. the european union has for many years sought to build a mutually beneficial strategic partnership with russia and remains open to such a relationship and dialogue in the future when the preconditions for this are met. russia is an important partner of the european union and we should, for our mutual benefit, define and constructively establish a long-term sustainable relationship based on respect for international law.
i was happy to support this proposal myself, because i am sure that there is a great deal of awareness of the problem of climate change, and it is therefore important that it has been adopted by such a large majority in the european parliament today. europe is the driving force in this area, and we have also shown and proved that there are a whole range of opportunities for european jobs in the area of green jobs. i am also pleased that other major polluters have followed this trend recently, and what was impossible to expect a few years ago, for example, that china would invest heavily in renewable energy, in reducing greenhouse gas emissions, is now a reality. i believe that at the paris meeting at the end of the year, a whole range of other major economies will follow europe's lead.
in writing. ‒ i support the consent to the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol. the european union needs to send a strong signal to the rest of the world in its commitment to address climate change. not only is this a signal that the fight against climate change is of key importance for the eu, but also that the development of renewables, with their impact on fighting climate change, remains at the core of the energy strategy.
in writing. ‒ the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol on climate change and the collective fulfilment of commitments focuses primarily on climate change. the doha conference adopted a target of a 20 percent reduction in emissions that pollute the environment. under the kyoto protocol, eu member states have committed themselves to limiting their greenhouse gas emissions to 80% of current levels. in this context, it is necessary to mention in particular the concrete measures to further reduce global emissions before 2020 that member states are already implementing. among them, the most important is the target of a 20% reduction in emissions. i find it sad that the eu member states are the ones joining the second target period of the kyoto protocol, but the biggest polluters are not. the eu should use all the political, diplomatic and economic tools at its disposal to persuade these countries to sign a binding international agreement. this would create a level playing field and, above all, the eu would not have to meet all its climate commitments alone. as enhanced action to combat climate change is of great importance, i voted in favour of the european parliament's recommendation on the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol and the joint fulfilment of commitments under this amendment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change and the joint fulfilment of the commitments under that amendment. the second kyoto protocol target period, 2013 2020, contains legally binding greenhouse gas emission reduction commitments under which the european union and iceland commit to limit their average annual greenhouse gas emissions to 80% of their base year emissions between 2013 and 2020. i support the rapporteur's view that the eu member states are the main contributors to the second target period of the kyoto protocol, but the biggest polluters are not. the formal implementation of the doha amendment must be one of the european union's priority objectives.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation to conclude the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol. the eu council should ensure that the ratification procedures in the member states and the eu are completed by the third quarter of 2015 at the latest, so that they can deposit their instruments of acceptance in time for the 2015 paris conference of the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change. this would send a strong signal about the efforts and leadership of the eu and its member states in addressing climate change at international level. in addition, we would put a mirror on the biggest polluters and encourage them to do the same. at the same time, the eu should use all the political, diplomatic and economic tools at its disposal to persuade these countries to sign a binding international agreement. it is important to take account of the eu's policy on climate change and the promotion of renewable energy sources. this is also supported by president juncker in the commission's programme, which envisages the eu taking the lead in the use and promotion of renewable energy sources. in order to meet the commitments under the doha round and to maintain the target of keeping the global temperature increase to the 2 °c target, the right balance between economic and environmental challenges needs to be found in the context of sustainable development.
in writing. ‒ i was pleased to support this proposal for a decision on the conclusion of an eu-iceland agreement on iceland's participation in the second target period of the kyoto protocol, as i did the recommendation on the draft doha amendment decision. the european union is a driving force in the fight against climate change and i am pleased that iceland, which is not yet an eu member, is joining the eu's united fight to meet its commitments under the kyoto protocol. iceland is already participating in the eu emissions trading system and the greenhouse gas monitoring mechanism, and its participation in the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol is an upgrade to the unified fight against climate change. i am pleased that more concrete steps are being taken recently to combat climate change, and i hope that a long-term agreement will be reached at the paris climate conference later this year. the eu is leading the fight against climate change and is seen to be followed by the rest of the world's economies, which are among the biggest air polluters. this is the only way to achieve the goal set by the doha agreement of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 to 80% of 1990 levels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the signing of the agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and iceland, of the other part, on the participation of iceland in the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol. the authority will assess the compatibility of the aid with the internal market in accordance with the provisions of the eea agreement. the european union is playing a leading role in the world in the fight against climate change and i support the continuation of such a policy. i support iceland's accession to the second target period of the kyoto protocol, as it will only strengthen the fight against climate change and the european union will once again send a clear signal about coordinated european cooperation in the fight against climate change.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation on an eu-iceland agreement on iceland's participation in the second target period of the kyoto protocol. iceland is a party to annex i of the kyoto protocol that has met its target for the first target period, when it had to limit its emissions growth to an average of no more than 10%. this country is also interested in joint fulfilment of commitments for the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol. the agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and iceland, of the other part, sends a strong signal for coordinated european action to address climate change at international level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the recommendation for a council decision on the accession of croatia to the convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters between the member states of the european union. the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union in 2013 has simplified its accession to conventions and protocols concluded by member states, since the negotiation and conclusion of individual protocols of association is no longer necessary. in support of this report, we will adopt all the adjustments necessary as a result of croatia's accession to the convention on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters.
in writing. - i supported the report. in today's globalized world, where crime in all its forms is rampant, cooperation among nations is all the more important. it is certainly in the common interest of the member states to provide mutual legal assistance in a rapid and efficient manner compatible with fundamental principles and individual freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the recommendation for a council decision on the accession of croatia to the convention on the fight against corruption involving officials of the european communities or officials of member states of the european union. as in the case of the report on the accession of croatia to the convention on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters, the adoption of the report on the accession of croatia to the convention on the fight against corruption involving officials of the european communities or officials of member states will make all the adjustments necessary for the implementation of the said convention.
in writing. - i supported the report. there's been a lot of ink spilled on corruption. despite the constant fight against it, it is still very much alive, more so than ever. you could call it the plague of the 21st century. it is a convention that provides a legal framework for the cooperation of member states in the fight against corruption. and it is cooperation, or collective resistance, against such acts that can bring results.
in writing. ‒ i am absolutely convinced of the following: that the pursuit of a strategic partnership based on shared values and principles between the european union and russia was the right intention; that war is the worst possible way to resolve issues of interethnic harmony in ukraine as well as relations between russia and ukraine; that the war violence on european soil is a tragic paradox, contrary to the political development since the fall of the berlin wall and a threat to peaceful development in the region; that no country that wants to share european values and principles with the european union voluntarily is a threat to any other country and that without respect for international law and agreements, there can be no progress towards mutual trust, without which there can be no partnership.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the state of eu-russia relations. stability and peace in the european union depend to a large extent on the quality of relations between the european union and russia. i support the establishment of a strategic partnership between the eu and russia, but not at any price. russia must meet its international and legal obligations. given the numerous violations of the fundamental principles of european security, the illegal annexation of crimea, the involvement in numerous frozen conflicts in its neighbourhood, i support the report which stresses that russia can no longer be considered a strategic partner at this point in time.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the state of eu-russia relations. direct and indirect participation in armed conflict, violations of territorial integrity, abuse of economic power and political destabilisation constitute deliberate violations of democratic principles, fundamental values and international law. i am concerned by the fact that, even in light of recent events, the publication of the blacklist has made russia appear in public as a challenger to the international democratic community. i believe that we must be cautious in our relations with russia and that we must act more unitedly as the eu against this country, which has recently been in serious breach of international law.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report on the state of eu-russia relations because russia and the european union need each other, in fact they should be partners. and putin's russia has betrayed that partnership in at least two ways in recent years: first, by annexing part of a neighboring country, provoking military maneuvers, undermining the stability of the region, causing conflicts in the neighborhood, stepping up intelligence and propaganda activities in and against the european union, and thus reviving the cold war. secondly, he persecutes the opposition at home and has never explained the murders of anna politkovskaya, natalia estemirova, boris nemtsov, sergei magnitsky, alexander litvinenko and others. the european union has no choice but to tighten economic and other sanctions against the country until russia returns to respect for international law, returns crimea and begins to respect basic human rights. the european union's sanctions are already weakening putin's position, but we must also continue to strengthen the unity of the european union's policy towards russia and, above all, strengthen our defence capabilities.
i voted in favour of this report because i am aware that, in addition to military and food security, energy security is a very important issue, one which must also be of great concern to the european parliament. energy security is all the more at risk because most of the energy we import into europe, more than half of it, comes from politically risky areas, there was a lot of talk about russia today, a lot of energy also comes from the middle east, so it's right that we take decisive steps on the continent ourselves. energy saving is the first and most important measure in energy policy, and i am pleased that this report is largely devoted to these very energy saving measures, but it is also important that the measures we are preparing for european politicians in parliament, that is to say, measures in the field of both the juncker plan and the energy union, are an opportunity for a whole range of infrastructure facilities that will allow greater market stability. it is also essential that the gas and electricity markets in europe are interconnected, otherwise these isolated markets will be in serious trouble in the future.
in writing. ‒ energy supply, mainly from fossil fuels, has unfortunately become a matter of political influence. the eu is in fact an energy dependent block, which each year imports more than eur 500 billion of energy. in the long run, security in energy supply can be achieved only by establishing the right partnerships and ensuring sustainable and environmentally viable exploitation of the resources we already have, including the hugh potential of renewables. the eu is in urgent need of a framework for improved energy security in order to pursue effective foreign policy and increase industry competitiveness through concrete actions to pool energy supplies among member states and clean up inefficiencies in external supply. therefore, in the current geopolitical context, it is of utmost importance that the eu works hard on a long-term strategy in support of the upcoming energy union.
in writing. ‒ the report on the european energy security strategy focuses on improving europe's energy security and efficiency in the light of the recent crises in russia and ukraine. the importance of diversifying energy sources and not just a single energy supplier should be recognised. although the time is right for the eu to focus on renewable energy sources, the report still focuses on gas and coal, whose supply would be spread over various third world countries. as a representative of the green party, i cannot support this. nature offers us many opportunities and options for green energy, but unfortunately we do not use them to the maximum extent possible. the gas imported into the eu is mainly used to heat residential buildings, which makes any gas crisis a heat crisis. the use of renewable energy sources promotes decentralisation, better regulatory frameworks and self-consumption, with a view to improving energy security. but the eu is still not completely moving away from nuclear energy. it is true that nuclear power plants still contribute a large share of the total energy consumption, but with a well-designed plan this could change. the nuclear and infrastructure problems mentioned above led me to vote against the report on the european energy security strategy.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the report on the european energy security strategy. the european union today faces major challenges in energy supply. in the current geopolitical context, energy security is all the more important. the prosperity and security of the european union and its political independence depend to a large extent on a stable, affordable and sustainable energy supply. but a report is not enough. the european union must come together and increase the use of its own resources: fossil fuels, renewable energy sources and economic technologies.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on the energy security strategy because it contained certain statements with which i cannot agree. on the other hand, there are plenty of good, positive messages that i can't turn down. europe's prosperity and security depend on a stable and abundant supply of energy. today, the eu imports 53% of its energy from third countries. the real problem is that the eu is heavily tied to only one supplier for these imports. the new strategy provides a framework for improving energy security. we need to ensure a stable and predictable environment for private investors, while promoting european technological capacity, research and science.
in writing. ‒ the european union needs to ensure high-level supervision of how eu funds are applied in order to avoid fraud or manipulation of any kind. i agree that the supervisory committee needs to review previous figures, and the commission will have to take action to improve current results.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution of the european people's party and the greens on the 2014 annual report of the olaf supervisory committee. as indicated in the olafa supervisory board's 2014 annual report, olaf did not make a proper assessment of the information received in any of the cases analysed by the supervisory board, the vast majority of cases did not even have a trace of any assessment, and of the 50 recommendations issued by the supervisory board, only 8 were fully implemented by olaf. i therefore join the commission's call to promote negotiations between olaf and the supervisory board by preparing an action plan by 31 december 2015 to complement the working arrangements and thereby create a working environment in which the supervisory board can fulfil its mandate.
in writing. ‒ i supported the 2014 annual report of olaf. it is necessary to emphasise strongly the responsibility of olaf in fulfilling the legal requirements for the initiation of an investigation. i consider it regrettable that the supervisory board was unable to reach a conclusion on whether the priorities of the investigative policy were properly defined and whether their implementation had positive or negative consequences in the fight against fraud and corruption.
in writing. ‒ i find any talk in hungary about reintroducing the death penalty regrettable, and i hope the government will stick to its commitment of not doing so. the abolition of the death penalty constitutes a milestone in the development of fundamental rights in europe and we should strive to keep fundamental values at the core of the eu.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament resolution on the situation in hungary is the eu's overall response to recent events in the country. the situation, which concerns mainly violations of fundamental human rights, has deteriorated considerably in the last 12 months. the hungarian government launched a national consultation on migration on 24 april 2015. in addition, it issued a questionnaire to be completed by every hungarian citizen over the age of 18. the questionnaire contains biased questions on migration and security threats. the replies would thus reveal personal information and political opinions of citizens, which would violate the rights to protection of information and personal data. the statements by hungarian prime minister viktor orban on the introduction of the death penalty in the country are also worrying. in a statement to hungarian radio, he said that member states should decide for themselves whether to introduce the death penalty. this is of course irreversible, as the death penalty is a violation of human rights and the treaty and the eu charter of fundamental rights. it is regrettable that the member state is deliberately violating and failing to show respect for human dignity. the spread of hate speech is contrary to the values on which the eu was founded. i think hungary should stop this kind of behaviour and human rights violations. i voted in favour of the resolution in the european parliament because of the limited concerns.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european people's party resolution on the situation in hungary because it is balanced, realistic and impartial. the abolition of the death penalty is one of the european union's greatest achievements, and i welcome the decision of hungarian prime minister orban to commit himself not to reintroduce the death penalty in hungary. i join those who, in the light of the situation in hungary, call for respect for european union law, which reflects democratic principles, the rule of law and fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution concerning the situation in hungary, as i am deeply worried about the xenophobic and racist rhetoric of the hungarian government. as a member of the alde group and a promoter of democracy, i believe we should continue our efforts to strengthen mechanisms for the defence of democracy all over our continent, and therefore i believe that this resolution is a good step. however, it is not enough. we should consider the possibility of establishing a european mechanism to monitor the state of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in all member states. as a member of the european parliament, i have been elected to guarantee the observance of fundamental rights in europe. if democracy is being undermined in one eu country, hungary in this case, it is as if it was happening in every other european country, and that is why i support this resolution.
in writing. ‒ turkey, with its population of some 77 million, is a large economy with even greater potential. although economic growth has moderated somewhat in recent years and employment rates have fallen, turkey still has a lot of scope for stable growth assuming a stable political, social and legal framework. the country should be recognised for its successful reform policy in recent years, but it still has a long way to go to meet the values and standards prevailing in the eu. on the one hand, we can welcome changes in the legal framework for political parties, which open the door to greater political pluralism, but we cannot be satisfied with the increase in corruption in the state and the lack of transparency in the investigation of such acts, the low level of independence, impartiality and efficiency of the judiciary, and the violation of a range of human rights. the most important of these are restrictions on freedom of speech, freedom of the media and gender inequality in political, economic, social, cultural and other areas, as well as unequal treatment of certain ethnic minorities. turkey also has a lot of work to do in foreign policy, particularly in talks with its neighbours armenia, greece and cyprus. the international community is ready to help address these difficult issues, but the key role is to be played by the countries involved. without a willingness to engage in frank dialogue, no results can be expected.
in writing. ‒ during recent years turkey has made impressive progress in many areas. for a long time i was a big supporter of turkish accession to the eu, and i still consider the process as a big opportunity for turkey to achieve european standards on which to establish the highest level of trust. unfortunately, i consider that several events – mainly during the past two years – have greatly slowed down the process. problems including corruption, an unclear separation of powers and a different mutual understanding of political pluralism have hindered the entire process. turkey will be able to continue its transformation only if it commits to democratic rules and principles, which are at the heart of the eu. in such a spirit, the eu will remain a key partner of turkey, supporting and helping it in its commitment to achieve genuine change.
in writing. ‒ in general, i would say that this year's progress report on turkey is more critical than previous reports, but also more constructive. it is important to stress that the recent events of the turkish government against the freedom of the press and public opinion are in conflict with the fundamental rights of the european union. critical but also constructive compromises were reached. improvements were made, particularly with regard to visa liberalisation and opportunities for civil society. the latter are crucial to turkey's progress as a democratic state. the customs union for trade between turkey and the eu is also to be improved. in the future, turkey will need to monitor corruption activities within the turkish government systematically. on the basis of the recent elections in turkey, i welcome the election of the most inclusive and representative parliament in turkey's modern history, reflecting the diversity of the country. i would like to commend the resilience of turkish democracy and the democratic spirit of its citizens, as reflected in the high turnout in the elections. it is important that all political parties work towards establishing a stable situation in the country with a view to reviving the process of democratisation and reforms, which will encourage and strengthen the dialogue between turkey and the european union. for the usual reasons, i voted for the resolution to be adopted by the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the commission's progress report on turkey for 2014. this october marks 10 years since the opening of accession negotiations with turkey, but there is no progress or even setbacks in some important areas. although turkey is an important trading partner of the european union and an important counter-terrorism partner, we must not forget the eu's core values, such as human rights and fundamental freedoms. the turkish authorities have also been accused of using violence against journalists to threaten journalists and journalists in the media.
in writing. ‒ i supported the 2014 progress report of turkey. turkey is certainly one of the eu's key strategic partners and with active and credible negotiations we could draw the appropriate framework to exploit the full potential of the eu-turkey relationship. i note that turkey continues to implement reforms in the area of the rule of law. progress has been made, but certain problems remain in the areas of combating corruption, freedom of expression, violence against women, minority rights and judicial independence, and the related separation of powers.
sport is part of culture and quality of life, especially in europe, which is the most sport-developed. it is becoming increasingly important in our private and public life, so much so that we even included it in the european union documents during the slovenian presidency of the european union and subsequently institutionalised it accordingly. sports are not only represented in public by athletes but also by officials. it is therefore of the utmost importance that all national and global sports associations act with integrity, professionalism and transparency in the good development of sport and in accordance with the values associated with it. this is especially true for the world's most important football association. i therefore support the european parliament's motion for a resolution, which stresses that corruption scandals have no place in the international football federation, as they damage the reputation of football, played by both top players and young boys and girls in africa, south america, asia and elsewhere who love the game and for whom their football goals mean a great deal and give them hope that they too may one day experience life, many beyond poverty. now fifa football officials have not only sullied themselves, but the sport they represent. it is well known that sport is increasingly associated with illegal activities ranging from doping, bribery, money laundering, betting, black-market betting and falsification of sports results. criminals know no borders and their activities too often cross national borders and successfully evade national law enforcement authorities. the fifa affair is also international in nature and therefore requires a comprehensive, joint and effective response. and fifa needs an organizational overhaul, as well as a moral overhaul, both of which can only be achieved by new people.
i support the resolution on the fifa corruption scandal and i think it is right that we should raise this problem in the european parliament, because football, which we say is the most important side business in the world, is much more than just one of the sports industries. it's an industry that has now done damage to practically the sport as a whole with this scandal. soccer as a game has gained a lot of attraction over the last decade, with more and more people following the sport. we heard a woman's voice today that fife should be run by a woman. i was also pleased recently to hear that a lot of women were watching the champions league final between barcelona and juventus. i think it's only right that we congratulate these sports knights on a real demonstration and a celebration of football. but what happened between the officials is a bad sign and in a way a distraction from football, too, for young people who spend much of their time in nature in this way, instead of being locked in their rooms, mostly behind the computer, television or some other addiction. these unfair deals that are taking place in football, which is a growing business year after year, have already been mentioned here today, and i am firmly convinced that it is right that we speak about this and that the voice of parliament is also the one that will bring those who have engaged in these unfair deals to where they belong - that is, before the court, and that they are convicted and that they ultimately pay the price for the damage they have also done to football. but we also see that a long-term mandate in a field like being president of fifa is sometimes similar to a dictator in africa. it is therefore right that something should change in this area as well.
the first pan-european games are being held in baku, where more than 6 000 young people will be looking to achieve their best. like any game, these have another extraordinary added value that of connecting europeans to the universal voice of peace that sport represents. that's how i always imagined the mission of sports. even as a young man, i was deeply affected by the boycott of two olympic games in the 1980's, as some of you younger people will remember. when, as the sports officer in the eu council of ministers in 2008, i was surprised by journalists asking whether the eu would boycott the beijing olympic games because of china's violation of human rights and freedoms in tibet, i immediately rejected the option, as boycotting would hurt the chinese people, including tibetans, more than the authorities. boycotting would miss the overall cultural effects that such an event brings to the environment where the games take place. interestingly, the tibetan religious leader, the dalai lama, later adopted the same view. today we have again linked this sporting event in baku to the violation of human rights and freedoms. while this is legitimate, critical discussion of the human rights situation in azerbaijan is certainly always welcome, as in other countries, including within the european union. this must remain our common concern and one of our priorities. but perhaps the games will have a positive impact on the development of democratic culture, and our permanent task is to monitor azerbaijan regularly for respect for human rights and freedoms, not just now when the games are taking place.
in writing.– the world of sport is globally dominated by money, aggressive commercialisation, corruption and politicisation – instead of being an activity aimed at boosting the positive achievements of young people and their ambitions to reach new horizons of their physical and mental capacities. that is why every important sports event in countries which are outside of the mainstream political power and strategy games in the world becomes a matter of lively political controversy. azerbaijan is certainly not a country with the highest standard of respect for democratic values, such as human rights, the rule of law and freedom of expression, but it is nevertheless a country which can proudly display its commitment to secular values, religious tolerance and gender equality. instead of continually exposing azerbaijan to criticism which barely takes account of its complex geopolitical situation and the fact that a large part of its national territory is occupied by neighbouring armenia – with the assistance of russian troops stationed on its territory – the eu should do much more to boost dialogue with baku and contribute to a just solution to the nagorno-karabakh dispute. the games in baku should be left to the athletes!
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report on the strategic military situation in the black sea area after the illegal annexation of crimea by russia. i support good relations with russia, i support cooperation and not conflict, but not at the expense of illegal and illegitimate actions and violations of the fundamental principles of international law. the european union must therefore strongly condemn the illegal annexation of crimea and reconsider its foreign and security policies in the light of the change in the geostrategic situation. the key to this is that the european union is united and united in its efforts, as this is the only way to respond effectively to security and political threats.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the strategic military situation in the black sea area following the illegal annexation of crimea by russia. the illegal annexation of crimea has given russia a strategically important territory. both from a military and an energy perspective. the eu must respond. it must link up with the other black sea states and strengthen its military capabilities, while maintaining a democratic dialogue with russia that would lead to a resolution of the situation.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i strongly disagree with the excessively aggressive policy that the eu is pursuing against russia following its annexation of crimea. while condemning russia’s invasion of crimea, i believe that the country still remains a world superpower with which the eu has to maintain dialogue. any disputes must be solved through peaceful and diplomatic means, leaving aside any aggressive attitudes that might lead to the most undesirable of results – war. while any further escalation of the already existing tensions must be avoided at all costs, this report in my opinion goes exactly in the opposite direction, hence my decision to cast my vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i support the resolution on the fifa corruption scandal. i think it is right that we should also raise this problem in the european parliament. this corruption scandal among the highest officials of the international football federation has done damage not only to football but to the sport as a whole. football is becoming a bigger business every year, millions and billions are being made in it, and it's the perfect platform for corruption. those individuals who engaged in these unfair transactions and thus enriched themselves illegally must be brought to justice. they have to pay for the damage they've done to football. although the european parliament has no formal levers with which to influence the functioning of international organisations such as fifa, it is very important that we speak out about this problem and use our influence and pressure to influence the reform of such organisations. this will also have an indirect impact on the eradication of corruption in sport. now is the perfect time to make a real change in sports.
in writing. ‒ the lack of rule of law inevitably leads to corruption and the main reason lies in the lack of values, allowing self-interest to override the purpose for common good. the highest problem of corruption and the ethical problem with which we are confronted is that the cost is usually shared by everybody. in the case of the fifa scandal, i encourage european national football associations to step up their own efforts to push for the implementation of fundamental reform measures within fifa.
in writing. ‒ the recent revelation of high-level corruption at fifa is certainly an act that is unacceptable and shameful for such an organisation. i believe that the integrity of sport must be safeguarded, as both amateur and professional sport promote peace-keeping, respect for human rights and solidarity. sport also provides health and economic benefits to society as a whole. fifa has been proven to be a dishonest and corrupt organization for years. but recent arrests are evidence that these fraudulent activities were systematic and highly diversified. good governance in sports organisations requires transparency, democracy and accountability. the players must be protected against possible extortion and intimidation, which are serious criminal offences. in addition, sponsorship requires clear criteria for negotiation and allocation of funds. a coordinated approach is needed to combat organised crime. the involvement of key stakeholders such as sports organisations, the police and national judicial authorities is important. educational programmes that raise awareness of the good values of sport should be encouraged. such programs are especially needed for youths and later for amateur and professional athletes. the organisation of fifa itself needs radical structural changes, especially after the resignation of former president sepp blatter. for all the reasons i have already stated, i voted in favour of the resolution in the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european people's party resolution on the recent revelations of high-level corruption at fifa. as already emphasised in the 2012 european parliament resolution on the european dimension in sport, sport contributes to the union's strategic objectives, highlights fundamental pedagogical and cultural values and is a driving force for integration, as it is addressed to all citizens, irrespective of their gender, ethnicity, religion, age, nationality, social status or sexual orientation. in this respect, the role of sports organisations is important, and their integrity must not be called into question. i therefore join the call to the commission and the member states to strengthen and prioritise good governance in the framework of the eu work plan for sport and to ensure that national associations are fully involved in actions aimed at better governance at european and international level.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the recent revelations of high-level corruption at fifa. it is necessary to provide the conditions for a thorough reform of its structures and practices as soon as possible in order to improve its governance and combat corruption within the organisation. the integrity of sports organisations is of great importance, as both professional and amateur sport play an important role in promoting peace, respect for human rights and solidarity. they bring health and economic benefits to society and also play an essential role in highlighting fundamental educational and cultural values and promoting social inclusion. the systematic corruption in fifa requires the strictest condemnation. football, arguably the most popular sport in the world, has an impact on the daily lives of millions of citizens. it is especially popular among young people. let's make sure that this is not just a source of entertainment for the young, but a model of healthy, upright living.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution concerning the recent revelations of high- level corruption cases in fifa. we should start investigating the fifa scandal immediately, as well as the russian and qatari world cup bid; if not the integrity of global football will be damaged even more. i hope that the commission will continue monitoring the eu anti-money laundering legislation and also make sure that the current legislation is sufficient to fight against corruption in sport.
many people have put their hopes in this fund, and of course there are many questions. many are hopeful, as the prospect of creating new jobs in many areas is also foreseen. but of course, it also raises a lot of questions because it's a relatively... important new thing in this capital market, too. and above all, it is clear that we are also entitled to demand the best and most transparent transparency and accountability of the funds. it would therefore be good to reconsider whether this fund should of course become a financial instrument and thus be subject to greater scrutiny by the european court of auditors on the one hand, so that we can also be confident in assessing the effectiveness of the use of funds in this area and in achieving the objectives themselves. on the other hand, it also means that it can be the subject of a discharge decision by the european parliament, since this also strengthens the european parliament's specific role in relation to the fund.
in writing. the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) is at the heart of the plan to revive growth in the eu. it is the main tool to mobilise €315 billion in new investment in the real sector of the economy over the next three years. the ambitious plan represents a great opportunity for the member states, and i really hope for slovenia as well. it is also an opportunity for investors who will see a return opportunity in this fund. this additional investment will be directed towards infrastructure, broadband and energy networks and transport infrastructure in industrial centres, education, research and innovation, and renewable energy and energy efficiency. europe needs all of this now.
in writing. seven years after the start of the global financial and economic crisis, many member states are still facing recession, low inflation and high unemployment. according to eurostat, the unemployment rate in the euro area stood at 11.1% in june this year, while the inflation rate in may was 0.3%. to overcome these challenges, the european union has established an economic governance framework based on enhanced economic planning with more thorough eu oversight, protection of the stability of the euro area and measures to rebuild the financial sector. i am surprised that the economic governance review report considers the current framework and the policies resulting from it to be adequate. in the future, the framework would only need to be supplemented slightly, but only after the member states have implemented the existing requirements of the economic governance framework appropriately. unfortunately, the report under-emphasises some important positions adopted by parliament in the past in this area, such as the call for the adoption of convergence guidelines under the codecision procedure to better coordinate economic policies and to put more emphasis on the social dimension of emu, while completely omitting some important aspects, such as the calls for a more democratic emu and a more ambitious european tax policy and the promotion of investments with long-term positive effects on society and the environment.
i was going to say a few words, despite the late hour, about the crisis in macedonia, which has been waiting for ten years at the door of the european union to open accession negotiations. it is this agonizing wait that is one of the reasons for the general frustration and accumulation of negative political energy, mistrust between the parties, illegality and anomalies of another kind. the next few days could turn the tide. we have a strong message from the union foreign ministers' meeting. we're waiting for the council's decision. on monday, the presidents of the four most powerful parties will meet again in skopje to agree on a political solution to the crisis... a political solution to the crisis. i hope that's true. i believe that there is no alternative to a political agreement. the alternative is to escalate and destabilize the country and possibly the region. today, for the first time, the foreign minister of neighboring greece visited skopje. they found that for every problem, there was a solution. and the notorious problem of the country's name. together they found that countries want stability within themselves and with their neighbors. we've waited a long time for this expression of goodwill.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by the committee on legal affairs concerning the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of sotirios zarianopoulos, following the request by the greek judicial authorities. i believe that the charges against zarianopoulos are not of a political nature, as he claims, but a part of the legal obligations that he, like any other civilian, has. the waiver of mr zarianopoulos’ immunity goes in the right direction and i hope that after the trial in greece, the truth will prevail.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by the committee on legal affairs concerning the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of udo voigt. i strongly believe that all europeans should enjoy equality before the law, so the justice system can decide about accusations of any kind. i do not think that our parliamentary immunity should exclude us from the legal procedures and obligations that our fellow citizens have to respect.
in writing. ‒ the european economic growth and jobs guarantee fund is estimated to create between 1 and 1.3 million new jobs and mobilise at least 315 billion in investment between 2015 and 2017. as this is a major innovation in the capital market, it raises many questions. first of all, it is clear that we have the right to demand the best and the greatest possible transparency of the funds. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget and the implementation of the budgetary policy, in particular by means of the annual report on the implementation of the budget. it can also be the subject of a discharge decision by the european parliament, thus strengthening the parliament's concrete role in relation to the fund. i would also like to point out that the regulation clearly provides for the use of indicators to assess the impact of projects before the investment is approved and after it has been implemented. before adopting the indicators act, we must not forget the call for greater emphasis on the priority selection of sustainable projects that provide long-term and quality jobs. i voted in favour of the resolution on the efsi as a whole, as i am convinced that this fund, with appropriate interinstitutional cooperation, is a good step towards the revival of economic growth in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european fund for strategic investments. since the start of the economic crisis, however, we have seen a decline in investment, which has created uncertainty in financial markets. the european union must respond to the current situation. that is why i support the european fund for strategic investments, because the funds from the fund will not only benefit individuals but also the european union as a whole. in this context, i would like to emphasise that the member states must also do their homework and create a favourable investment environment through appropriate structural and economic reforms.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the european fund for strategic investments. the economic and financial crisis has reduced the level of investment in the eu by around 15% since its peak in 2007. there's enough liquidity. however, uncertain economic prospects and high public and private debt in some parts of the eu are holding back investment. president juncker's investment plan for europe will help by linking projects to existing liquidity and directing money where it is needed. the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) is at the heart of this plan. it is the main tool to mobilise €315 billion in new investment in the real sector of the economy over the next three years. the fund will be set up within the framework of the eib (european investment bank), with which the commission will act as a strategic partner. it will finance projects with a higher risk profile, which will increase the impact of public spending and unlock private investment. the efsi will also be supported by a guarantee fund covering the risk of the guarantee for the efsi.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on the european fund for strategic investments, as i believe that the european economy urgently needs the establishment of a new european fund for strategic investments (efsi), which will bridge the eu investment gap. ‘the juncker plan’ as we meps also call it, is a flagship which could create a multiplier effect that could mobilise additional investments over the next years. furthermore, the efsi could act as a guarantee which could unlock billions of euros in investment in projects, infrastructure and small businesses – a necessary step to get out of the current economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is one of the budgetary instruments introduced by the european union to provide additional support to workers who have been affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns or by the consequences of the global financial and economic crisis and to assist them with their reintegration into the labour market. the maximum annual budget available for the egf in 2015 is eur 150 million, and the egf regulation states that, at the initiative of the commission, a maximum of 0,5% of this amount is to be used to finance the activities necessary for the implementation of the egf regulation. eur 630.000 should therefore be used for 2015 to provide technical assistance at the initiative of the commission, which will include in particular the monitoring and data collection, the updating and development of the website including translation to increase awareness and visibility of the egf, the establishment of a user interface to simplify and speed up the processing of applications, the establishment of an expert group of egf contact persons and the networking of member states. since the union's financial assistance for redundant workers must be dynamic and available as quickly and efficiently as possible, and the above activities will certainly make a major contribution to this, i was pleased to support the report on the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund in the vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund. the proposed amount of eur 630.000, out of a total of eur 811.825 per year, will be used for the preparation, monitoring and data collection, which will allow for simplified and faster processing of applications and improved reporting. i support the commission's intention to raise the profile of the egf, which provides additional support to workers who have been affected by the consequences of major structural changes during the financial and economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ i support the report on the use of the egf. the egf is an instrument to support workers who have lost their jobs and provides vocational guidance, help in finding a job and so on. in this case, it is a transfer of €630,000 from the fund, which covers technical assistance to the commission. the technical assistance shall be aimed at financing monitoring, information and knowledge-building activities and at assisting member states in the implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the egf.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). that this report provides support for workers and self-employed people whose activities have been severely influenced as a result of the current financial crisis is very positive. i believe it is very valuable that these people will be assisted to reintegrate into the labour market, which is not only a very challenging part but also the most vital one.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the review of the economic governance framework. the eu economies are closely intertwined, especially the euro area with a single monetary policy. it certainly does not help to have one side row forward and the other side row back. that's why we have economic management. that we in the eu help and support each other in creating the jobs we lost in the crisis, in strengthening economic recovery and investment. this requires the implementation of agreements and clear, simple and transparent rules and procedures, and the european institutions also have a role and responsibility in ensuring this.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the review of the economic governance framework: assessment of the situation and challenges. i, like the els political group, deplore the lack of compliance with the rules observed in several member states, as well as the weak implementation of the rules by the institutions, which we believe is the root cause of the national debt crises that many countries have faced since 2009. and to increase competitiveness, i support stable and sustainable public finances.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the review of the economic governance framework: stocktaking and challenges, as i believe that the report does not address a series of key issues of great importance. there is no inclusion of a merger of the country-specific recommendations, the excessive deficit procedure and the macroeconomic imbalance procedure in a single document of legally binding nature; there is no inclusion of a role to be played by the ecj; there is no inclusion of an insolvency procedure for sovereigns and no inclusion of a debt redemption fund, on which the report actually rolls back on standing ep positions. these are just a few of the shortcomings of the report which led me to vote against it, in the hope of a better re-formulation that would adequately tackle all the outstanding issues.
the capital markets union is of great importance for the financial and developmental recovery of smes. low economic growth in the european union is not creating jobs. it is therefore essential to ensure the international operation of smes, which requires better access to finance. the cross-border flow of capital is of great importance here, and the capital markets union will certainly provide this for smes. a comprehensive approach and the channelling of financial resources through long-term investments are also needed. in all this, it is necessary to ensure proportionality of measures, the effectiveness of legislation and uniform controls in order to ensure real benefits for smes. by september, when the action plan will be published, and also the outlook for the capital markets union initiative, it will be necessary to further examine and regulate the provisions on third countries as well as to consider how to better regulate the area of insolvency and tax systems.
the capital markets union can be an important corrective test after the crisis we have experienced in recent years, which was of course also caused by financial systems, by banks, by loans that were distributed uncritically, and indeed by questionable ethics in this area. this is why we naturally support this document, which offers a new opportunity and also new content for financing smes. on the one hand, we are talking about free and, above all, more flexible markets, about the need for a tax union, about investment issues and, of course, about the content itself. i'd like to make a personal point. on the one hand, the problem of insolvency, the failure to resolve insolvency at the level of the european union, is called the rules. and then, of course, there are the employment policies. so that by this way of financing we can contribute to reducing so-called redundant jobs.
i welcome the report by sirpe pietikäinen on the circular economy, and also the fact that we have two vice-presidents of the european commission in the room today and their views on the european commission's ambitious plan for the circular economy, which we are expected to receive by the end of the year. europe is the continent with the most ambitious environmental goals. and it is right that the circular economy is one of our great priorities. it's about saving resources, recycling, reusing resources. it's about the people who are doing it. in adopting this approach to resource management, it is very important to involve local and regional authorities in this process. without their active participation, there will be no results. real life happens between people. it is also important to involve young people in this process and to raise awareness through the education system of the importance of conserving resources. i wish the commission every success and an ambitious report at the end of the year.
this is an ambitious document, which is of course the basis for the development of a more concrete document the commission proposal. these are certainly things that need to be supported. the circular economy is an opportunity for all for the economy, for new jobs, and above all for the environment and for a healthier approach to understanding the economy. but i think that this document which the commission is preparing should be more clear about what its objectives are. and those goals, of course, have to be binding. because without binding targets, it will not be possible to really set up a circular economy system, because we are still far from the principle of 'who pays who pays'. we have too many of these wild landfills, too much waste is being dumped, not recycled, and i think we need to invest more in data management research, or waste management research. and of course, these goals need to be monitored and acted upon. and let us not forget the responsibility of polluters.
congratulations to colleague nicholson on a very good report. he is clearly well versed in the field and has highlighted virtually all the problems we are facing at a time when, on the one hand, we have abolished quotas and, on the other, europe has also been affected by the russian embargo on food imports. in some areas these problems are even greater, because the conditions of production are so much more difficult because of the small farms, because of the difficult conditions of working on hill farms, and the own price is higher, and the pressure on prices is greater every day. the report therefore also gives a good indication of the area which is concerned with better integration of farmers, the search for new markets and, of course, the search for quality products that will also enable local supplies, supplies to tourist resorts, to achieve better prices and, especially for farms with more difficult conditions, a suitable income.
transparency international slovenia is a non-governmental and non-profit organisation with public interest status, part of the largest international anti-corruption network in the world - transparency international. they raised over half a million euros themselves for the purpose of setting up anti-corruption tools and raising public awareness, linking various institutions from abroad and providing jobs for 5 experts. these jobs are now seriously threatened because slovenia still does not have a system of direct funding for the work of ngos in the field of anti-corruption. in the event of further non-financing, it could face a complete decline in activity, and slovenia would thus become one of the few countries in which the largest international anti-corruption organisation in the world would not have a representative. it is urgent to find appropriate solutions to allow the continuation of the operation of such an important organisation, as public confidence in the operation of the state is enhanced by greater transparency. this is essential for a well-functioning democracy, and the european commission also stresses the need to strengthen the fight against corruption, further reforms in the area of public procurement and public sector integrity.
the financial crisis has hit many countries within the euro area hard. in spain, portugal, ireland, responsible governments put the state before party interests, before the interests of individuals - politicians. and these countries have escaped the worst of the crisis. greece, under the leadership of mr. samaras' government, was on a similar path. his government paid the price for implementing the necessary reforms and lost the election. with the new year, the left-wing, communist party of siriza took over the reins of the greek government, with its political president, mr. tsipras, who managed to destroy the progress made by the previous government in six months. the deception, the frivolous and irresponsible promises and the promise of the impossible have led to sunday's referendum, which is a real political russian roulette that threatens the euro area and, above all, the deteriorating social situation in greece. it is time to wake up and make responsible policy, because in this political game mr tsipras cannot be the winner, but the losers themselves.
i would like to tell you the sad and non-political news that last week in slovenia, at the age of 86, mr. slavko avsenik, a legendary slovenian musician, who, together with his brother vilko and his ensemble, has been cheering slovenia, europe and the wider world for half a century with more than a thousand compositions, based on the slovenian folk music tradition, died. his music has been played on over 32 million records and is now played by over 10,000 bands worldwide. his composition "on the goal" is considered the most performed composition in the world. tomorrow we will give a grateful farewell to a man who has enriched us with a vast and exceptional body of music.
this agreement is one of the answers to a changing world. it seems to me appropriate to pay particular attention to such an important and ambitious project with long-term implications for transatlantic cooperation and to ensure a high level of transparency. it is not surprising to me that the general public is so keenly interested in this agreement and is demanding political and legal guarantees to maintain standards relating to health, food, the environment and culture. to insist on maintaining the standards in question seems to me to be insufficient. the common ambition should be to further improve such standards with a common regulatory framework for the good of people. it's not just the increased volume of trade and geostrategic interest, but also the quality of goods on which the quality of our lives depends. i am pleased that we have made progress on the investor-state dispute settlement system, which is of the utmost importance both for the protection of investors and for the protection of the public interest in the light of private interest.
ttip is the largest of these agreements, but it is only one of many agreements that already exist in the world today and whose purpose is the same everywhere: to improve cooperation and to achieve benefits for all parties. europe is thus being offered the opportunity to create a new economic stimulus, to create new jobs. and it would be unwise to turn down such a unique opportunity. but ttip is not just an economic agreement, it is also a geopolitical, strategic agreement between two parties that share similar or the same values. i am very pleased that the political groups have also managed to reach agreement on one of the key issues that has been troubling us all, namely the way in which disputes are resolved. and of course i support a better isds that's fairer and protects our investors. the european economy depends on external growth and it is right that ttip should offer it a new opportunity.
congratulations to colleague lange on the resolution. for me, ttip is vital to the continued existence and development of the european union. we all know that economic power is the key. being more economically strong will help us to counteract some of the other weaknesses of the european union, such as weak energy resources, poor demographic trends, rising security risks, governance crises, the declining power of the european union in international politics, and so on. the ttip is a great opportunity for economic revitalisation, for new jobs, for greater competitiveness. the removal of trade and investment barriers will benefit both european and american businesses and households. europe in particular will benefit. i wonder why some meps are against these benefits of the european union. i have an answer, but i don't have time to explain. respected ! the eu accounts for only 7% of the world's population. if we do not create optimal conditions for our economy, we will be even weaker and more vulnerable in the future.
we have heard many times today what the pro/anti-agreement efforts are. i would of course say that we have heard that this agreement is not intended to lower standards, but i think that we must strive to raise standards in the european union in many areas, including the environment, social security and labour. i would therefore also point out that the us has ratified only two of the eight fundamental rights conventions, while the eu has ratified all eight. and the us has not ratified even the most basic international documents in the field of fundamental social rights, such as the european social charter of the council of europe or the un international covenant on economic, social and cultural rights. and it is these standards that can then be the obstacle that will cause different mechanisms to be used against member states as a barrier to capital gaining even more profit. and that is why we also draw attention to this aspect, which must be emphasized in the strongest possible terms, and that is why we also call on the united states to sign and accede to all these international agreements which are fundamental.
rapporteur.– madam president, the committee on budgetary control (cont) has evaluated the credentials of bettina michelle jakobsen, the council’s nominee for membership of the court of auditors, and heard ms jakobsen at the committee’s meeting of 17 june. ms jakobsen’s career and her professional background as an auditor, including serving as assistant auditor-general in denmark since 2005, are truly excellent. they demonstrate her technical competence, her professional commitment and her full independence. these are all qualities which i believe should become the standard for nominees. apart from that, with our positive vote, bettina jakobsen will be only the fifth female member of the european court of auditors in its current composition. that means that the member states also need to make further strong efforts to achieve a more gender-balanced institution. ms jakobsen’s hearing before the cont committee demonstrated her commitment to good cooperation between the european court of auditors and the european parliament in general and with the cont committee in particular. this cooperation must be based on mutual respect and understanding of the importance of effective european union spending and policy management. at this opportunity, allow me to highlight that i fully support the initiative to update the questionnaire addressed to nominees to ensure an even more comprehensive insight into nominees’ careers, independence and possible conflicts of interests. in the cont committee, we fully support the european court of auditors’ ambitions to increase its focus on performance and value-for-money audits and to work more closely with the european parliament and other stakeholders when establishing its reports programme, to help ensure the relevance of its work. as a former auditor-general myself, it is with deep respect for ms jakobsen’s professional background and with full support for her candidacy, as expressed by the cont committee, that i ask this house to follow the cont committee’s recommendation and vote ‘yes’ to ms bettina michelle jakobsen being appointed the new danish member of the european court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ given the candidate's more than 25 years of experience in the field of auditing both in denmark and internationally, and her active work on the audit committees of some european institutions, i consider the appointment of bettina michelle jakobsen as a member of the court of auditors to be appropriate and i also supported her without any problems in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the appointment of bettina michelle jakobsen as a member of the court of auditors. bettine michelle jakobsen has already demonstrated, at the hearing before the committee on budgetary control, that she has many years of audit experience in the public sector and extensive knowledge of financial audits, compliance audits and audits of operational efficiency. her answers were clear, precise, and consistent. i also voted in favour of the report because of its assurance that it would seek to improve relations between the european court of auditors, the national audit institutions and the european parliament (committee on budgetary control).
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the appointment of a member of the court of auditors. ms bettina michelle jakobsen has been proposed as the new danish member of the european court of auditors. she's a lawyer and accountant with over 25 years of experience. she is currently an assistant auditor in denmark, responsible for preparing the public finance committee's reports on the audit of public accounts.
in writing. ‒ again, as in the case of the regulation on the protection of vessels against injurious pricing, it is not a change of substance but a consolidation of the 1994 text, so my support for the document was not in doubt.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the report is to adopt the amended proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down procedures in the field of the common commercial policy in order to ensure the rights of the union under international trade rules, in particular those agreed within the world trade organisation (wto). the timeliness and the need for change make the adoption of the report very important, and i supported it.
in writing. ‒ since the regulation on the protection of vessels against injurious pricing is only a codification of the 1996 regulation and there are practically no substantive changes, as the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission have also found, i have had no problems in supporting the new regulation.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted the commission proposal as adapted to the recommendations of the consultative group, which mainly concern substantive changes. the purpose of the proposal is to protect against harmful price formation of vessels. i supported that report.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendations as they dictate a more appropriate legislative solution in the fisheries sector in bilateral relations between french guiana (considered an eu territory) and the bolivarian republic of venezuela. since the landing and processing activity is the most important employer in french guiana, it is also necessary to define the legal obligations of both countries accordingly. given that venezuela duly respects the agreements concluded in this area, no major complications are to be expected.
in writing. ‒ the processing industry in french guiana is partly dependent on the exploitation of living natural resources by venezuelan fishing vessels. this activity is of major economic and social importance for the region, and for decades venezuelan fishing vessels have had a fishing permit on condition that part of the catch is landed in guyanese ports. the landing and processing of fishery products is therefore an important source of income and employment in french guiana. the european union and venezuela have not concluded an appropriate international fisheries agreement, but the fishing of venezuelan vessels has been allowed in practice. the commission has submitted a proposal for an eu commitment to recognise fishing rights for venezuelan vessels. the fishing authorisation procedure needs to be completed as soon as possible in order to provide the fisheries in this area with an appropriate legal framework. in this respect, it should be noted that venezuela respects its agreements resulting from the proposal, in particular with regard to compliance with european legislation, for example in relation to target fish stocks, type of fishing gear, vessel tracking devices, fisheries reporting, maximum number of vessels and the proportion of catches to be landed in french guiana ports. since i consider it important to regulate the legal framework for hunting by venezuela in french guiana, i supported the recommendation and voted for its adoption.
in writing. ‒ for decades, fishing vessels flying the venezuelan flag have had authorisation to operate in the eez (exclusive economic zone) of the french overseas department. to this end, the eu has issued a limited number of fishing authorisations to fishing vessels flying the flag of the bolivarian republic of venezuela. these vessels will be able to carry out fishing activities in the eez off the coast of french guiana. given the economic and social importance of the activities, access will be provided in the form of a council declaration, which, in accordance with the case law of the international criminal court, is legally binding under international law. the declaration will therefore regulate the current situation and offer the fishing industry in this area the possibility of carrying out activities, which is why i supported this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the council decision to grant fishing opportunities in eu waters to venezuelan fishing vessels in the exclusive economic zone off the coast of french guiana. fishing activities in this region play a very important economic and social role: the processing industry in french guiana is largely based on the fishing done by venezuelan vessels in its waters. although there is no international agreement between the eu and venezuela on fisheries, in practice venezuelan vessels have been allowed to fish in eu waters for decades. this is why it was important to give such activities a legal basis (to transfer the fishing rights to venezuelan vessels) through a declaration to be made by the council, with the approval of the european parliament, which aligned the agreement with union legislation.
in writing. ‒ it is good to support the message about budgetary surpluses, given that more and more countries are having problems with such results in their balance sheets. the 2015 budget shall include a surplus of eur 1,435 billion from 2014. the unplanned revenue is mainly due to the late payment interest and fines element (eur 634 million) and the positive result in own funds (eur 479 million). this will also minimise member states' contributions and strengthen the financial situation of the eu solidarity fund.
in writing. ‒ the objective of draft amending budget no 3/2015 is to include in the 2015 budget the surplus of eur 1,435 million from the 2014 budget year. the main elements of this surplus are a positive result in revenue of eur 1,183 million, unused appropriations for expenditure of eur 142 million and a currency gap of eur 110 million. in the context of the 2015 budget negotiations, the council proposed that the payments related to the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund in draft amending budgets no 5/2014 and no 7/2014 for a total amount of eur 126,7 million be transferred to the 2015 budget. taking into account the surplus in draft amending budget no 3/2015, these two 2014 draft amending budgets, which concern a total of 7 cases of the eu solidarity fund, could be paid from the 2014 budget, and i therefore voted in favour of draft amending budget no 3/2015.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the council position report on the proposal to amend the budget of the european union for the financial year 2015 incorporation of the surplus from the financial year 2014. i agree to include the positive result in revenue, unspent appropriations for expenditure and exchange rate differences in the 2015 budget. i also support the rapporteur's view that, in view of the surplus in the 2014 budget, it would be possible to pay without any difficulty the 2014 amending budget proposal, which concerned a total of 7 cases of use of the eu solidarity fund.
in writing. ‒ i supported the budget amendment. the proposal refers to the surplus of the financial year 2014. the total amount of the surplus to be carried over to the financial year 2015 is eur 1,435 million. this amount will represent a reduction in the national contributions of the member states to the eu budget.
in writing. ‒ i was happy to support the budget amendments allowing the use of the eu solidarity fund for the areas in romania, bulgaria and italy that were severely affected by the floods in spring and autumn 2014. i myself come from an area that has been repeatedly flooded, and i know full well what a disaster water can cause. i very much hope that the people of these regions will use the funds not only to repair the damage but also to provide the best possible flood protection.
in writing. ‒ in relation to the use of the eu solidarity fund to mitigate the consequences of the floods that affected romania, bulgaria and italy in 2014, the commission has also prepared a proposal for amending budget no 4 for 2015 to finance the above mentioned use of the solidarity fund in the amount of eur 66 505 850. the floods caused significant damage to public and private infrastructure, businesses, private homes and the agricultural sector in all three countries, and in italy, they claimed as many as 11 lives. the eu must respond quickly in such emergencies and ensure that the member states affected receive appropriate assistance. it is therefore urgent to mobilise funds through the eu solidarity fund in order to show solidarity with the people of the regions affected by the disasters. since the council proposes in this case to settle its obligations towards the affected countries by using additional funds and not by withdrawing money from other programmes, i was happy to support this proposal for a budgetary amendment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the council position report on the proposal for a budget amendment of the european union no 4/2015 for the financial year 2015, accompanying the proposal to use the european union solidarity fund for romania, bulgaria and italy. romania, bulgaria and italy were affected by floods in 2014 and are therefore eligible to mobilise the eu solidarity fund to the amount of eur 66 505 850. i therefore support the release of financial assistance through the eu solidarity fund to the countries affected by these natural disasters, as the draft amending budget no 4/2015 formally incorporates this budgetary adjustment into the 2015 budget.
in writing. ‒ i supported the budget amendment. the european union solidarity fund is intended to provide a rapid response by the union in the event of a major natural disaster affecting one or more of its member states. the union is thus showing solidarity with the affected areas. the solidarity fund may provide assistance of up to eur 500 million per year. the report represents parliament's decision to allocate €66 505 850 to help with the consequences of last year's floods in romania, bulgaria and italy.
in writing. ‒ i also supported this report, which provides some €66 million in aid to three countries, most of all italy, where the estimated damage was over €2 billion. although the damage at national level did not exceed the required values to be classified as a 'major natural disaster', from a regional perspective it was certainly a regional disaster of major proportions. now it is up to these countries to invest more in flood protection, or a similar disaster may soon occur again.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund aims to enable the union to respond quickly, efficiently and flexibly to emergencies and to show solidarity with the population of regions affected by disasters. in april and may 2014, floods affected many romanian counties. the direct damage to public and private infrastructure and agriculture was estimated at eur 167,9 million. in addition, the romanian region of oltenia was hit by landslides in the same year, which damaged the business and agricultural sectors, as well as cultural heritage and private residences. the total direct damage was estimated at eur 171,9 million. in bulgaria, heavy rains in 2014 caused extensive damage to public and private infrastructure, businesses and private residences. the bulgarian authorities estimate that the total direct damage amounted to eur 79,3 million. in 2014, italy was also affected by floods and landslides, which caused significant damage to public and private infrastructure, private dwellings and the agricultural sector, and also caused 11 deaths. the italian authorities estimate that the total direct damage amounted to eur 2,241 million. the eu must respond quickly in emergencies and ensure that the member states affected receive appropriate assistance. as a supporter of rapid action, i voted in favour of the report.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the use of the eu solidarity fund: floods in romania, bulgaria and italy. floods in romania, bulgaria and italy caused direct damage estimated by the authorities there at eur 2 660,1 million. the european commission proposes a total amount of aid of approximately eur 66 million. the floods have caused direct damage to public and private infrastructure, the business and agricultural sectors, cultural heritage and have also claimed 11 lives in italy. as all applications are eligible for eu solidarity fund funding under the neighbourhood clause and under the regional disaster criterion, i supported the report by mr mureșan.
in writing. ‒ i supported the budget amendment. the european union solidarity fund is intended to provide a rapid response by the union in the event of a major natural disaster affecting one or more of its member states. the union is thus showing solidarity with the affected areas. the proposal concerns the use of funds resulting from the surplus of the 2014 budget. part of this amount will be used to help with the consequences of last year's floods in romania, bulgaria and italy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this commission proposal to grant eur 66.5 million in aid to romania, bulgaria and italy to compensate for the costs they incurred for the emergency measures taken during the 2014 floods. this aid comes from the european solidarity fund, and will serve to help the three countries repair damage to public and private infrastructure, private homes, businesses, agriculture, the environment and cultural heritage caused by the floods. in detail, eur 56 million will go to italy, around 8.5 million to romania and almost 2 million to bulgaria.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, which actively promotes one of the most ambitious projects of the european union at the moment, namely the introduction of the single ticket. european consumers would thus be able to plan their travel within europe through a single system of collection of transport information, irrespective of the means of transport used, and could also combine transport services via a single ticket. this is an excellent project which will increase the competitiveness of the bidders and reduce transport costs, but it is extremely technically demanding as it requires information support.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report because i believe that an integrated approach to cross-border ticket sales and the provision of information on multimodal travel within the ec are key responses to the challenges of european transport. the mobility of european citizens across the ec is a prerequisite for the exercise of their fundamental rights and they must therefore be able to access accurate and neutral information on timetables, available connections and prices. this will benefit society, the environment, social cohesion and tourism, while providing opportunities for innovation and thus contributing to the increased competitiveness of the european single market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the establishment of a connected multimodal ticketing system in europe because i am convinced that multimodal travel will make a significant contribution to the creation of a single european transport area. passengers should be offered the fastest and/or cheapest way of travelling on a single ticket. they should be able to select, book and pay for that ticket online, regardless of the number of different means of transport used. however, these measures must not lead to excessive increases in ticket prices.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the establishment of a connected multimodal ticketing system in europe. the mobility of people is an integral part of modern life and one of the eu's four freedoms. this requires a comprehensive european approach, especially when it comes to multi-modal travel, planning and ticketing information. the european commission has therefore prepared a document providing for unification: a single system for obtaining information and tickets throughout the eu. online information, electronic reservations and payment systems that combine all modes of transport would facilitate and accelerate multi-modal travel, but the current fragmented landscape in the european market represents an obstacle to exploiting the full potential and advantages of the sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it represents an important step towards the modernisation of the european transport sector, by helping to make travel across the eu more hassle-free. the report calls for an easier purchase of tickets for national and cross-border journeys, but also for more integrated ‘smart ticketing’. this means that journey planning and payment systems will be more transparent, user-friendly and therefore easier for consumers. the improvement of such systems will serve to make travel in europe more accessible and increase tourism as a consequence.
in writing. ‒ i supported the extension of the mandate of the taxe special committee. in accordance with parliament's rules of procedure, parliament may, at any time, on a proposal from the conference of presidents, set up special committees, the powers, composition and term of office of which shall be determined when the decision establishing them is adopted. their term of office shall not exceed 12 months, unless parliament extends it after its expiry. the european parliament is therefore deciding to extend the mandate of the special committee on tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect to taxe, of which i am a member. given its important role, it is essential that the committee continue its work.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of draft amending budget no 1/2015 is to transfer the necessary changes to the budget nomenclature in accordance with the legislative agreement on the european fund for strategic investments (efsi). this is the core of a programme to ensure new jobs by encouraging investment, and therefore swift approval of the budget amendment is essential. unfortunately, despite our best efforts, we have not been able to fully maintain the integrity of horizon 2020 through reallocation, but the return is still much better than in the primary proposals. i still supported the report.
in writing. ‒ we recently gave the green light to the strategic investment fund in parliament, and today, with the vote on the draft amending budget, we have allocated the principal resources to this fund and laid the foundations for mobilising private capital. the recent negotiations on the amount of the reallocated funds have been a great success. we have managed to reduce the budget for horizon 2020 and the connecting europe facility, which are essential for achieving the europe 2020 goals, by as much as €1 billion. unfortunately, the total amount of the funds transferred from these two programmes is still too high. it should be borne in mind that the budget for horizon 2020 and the cef for 2015 has already basically hit the minimum to meet eu commitments, as it was significantly reduced already in the preparatory phase! nevertheless, this proposal is a step in the right direction towards much needed growth of the european economy. but we must realize that this is only the beginning. in order to achieve the objectives of the investment plan, other measures are necessary, such as the development of a system of indicators to assess ex ante the sustainability of investments and the quality of jobs, rather than merely the technical suitability of individual projects.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on draft amending budget no 1/2015 european fund for strategic investments (efsi). i support the commission's proposal for a european fund for strategic investments (efsi), which was reached thanks to the strong determination of all the institutions that investment in research and transport is essential and that it is necessary to increase the eu's competitiveness and contribute to the union's strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. i share the regret of the rapporteur who points out the negative impact on horizon 2020 and the connecting europe facility, which are key to jobs and growth in europe.
in writing. ‒ the proposal covers the budgetary aspect of the european fund for strategic investments for 2015. the efsi shall be managed by the commission and shall be managed by the european investment fund. the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. i supported the proposal because the work of the fund is important.
in writing. ‒ with the draft amending budget no 5/2015, which i supported, we are increasing the european union's resources for managing migration and refugee flows by eur 75 million. in the wake of recent tragedies in the mediterranean and the increase in migration flows, swift action is urgently needed. the commission also plans to create 21 new jobs in the frontex, easo and europol programmes. although this is again only a matter of reallocation and the resources are far from sufficient to significantly improve the migration situation in southern europe, the emergency situation calls for immediate action, while seeking solutions at the level of the member states' common agreement.
in writing. ‒ following the increasingly frequent tragic events in the mediterranean, it is urgent that the european union finally respond and strengthen the means to manage migration and refugee flows. until now, the financial burden of emergencies has been borne mainly by the budgets of the member states with coastlines in the south of the union. this draft budgetary amendment supports the willingness of all the institutions to increase the budgetary appropriations for migration and asylum. the inaction and almost imperceptible assistance that the eu has so far offered to the most vulnerable countries could have humanitarian and social consequences that are unimaginable today if we do not respond to change in a timely and effective manner. however, i am surprised that the european asylum office receives a rather low share of funding compared to frontex, while its role is greatly increased by the increase in the number of asylum seekers. i support the intention to devote most of frontex's resources to strengthening search and rescue, but the balance between ensuring security and promoting solidarity is not right! in order to effectively improve the situation at sea and to implement the principle of solidarity between member states, it is necessary to take a holistic approach to resolving an otherwise complex situation and to support activities with significantly increased and strategically allocated resources.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on draft amending budget no 5/2015 responding to migratory pressures. the amendment to budget no 5/2015 will increase the union's resources for managing migration and refugee flows following the recent tragedies in the mediterranean and the increase in migration flows. the total amount of payments in 2015 will not be increased as the funds will be fully reallocated from the galileo programme line. however, i wonder whether, given the scale of the migration flows, the amount of eur 69 652 000 is justified and whether additional funds will not be needed in the future.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 5/2015 proposes to increase the union's resources for managing migration and refugee flows, in particular in view of the recent events in the southern mediterranean. financial reinforcements are proposed for the three agencies, the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders (frontex), the european asylum office (easo) and the european police office (europol), as well as for the asylum, migration and integration fund (amif) and the internal security fund (isf). as migration is one of the eu's major challenges, it is important that we are effective in our efforts. that's why i voted for this motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this commission proposal to boost funding in response to the recent challenges linked to migration flows. three agencies managing migration flows into the eu and two eu funds for migration measures will benefit from a eur 69.6 million budget increase. more specifically, the eu border management agency frontex will receive eur 26.8 million, while the two main sources of migration-related funding, the asylum, migration and integration fund (amif) and the internal security fund (isf) will respectively receive an additional eur 45.6 million and eur 4 million in payment appropriations. at the same time, the european asylum support office and the european police office (europol) will receive more staff. my positive vote is a hope that the eu will be able to prevent other tragedies from happening in the waters of the mediterranean through better prevention and better coordination between member states.
the russian embargo and the abolition of milk quotas have caused a fall in prices, which is why there are many problems in the dairy sector, as is clearly stated in mr nicholson's report, which i am happy to support. i come from slovenia, where dairy production is a key agricultural industry. in the country, about 60% of the agricultural area is covered by grassland, most of our area is a difficult-to-cultivate area, we belong to the alpine area. and in areas like these, where small farms are in difficult conditions, farmers feel the pressure especially when the price of milk falls and changes like it has in recent years. i therefore support the european commission's monitoring of the situation in this area in order to create a clear safety net in which milk producers can escape from a difficult market situation, and certainly the solution is also in greater exports and high quality milk products.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report on the prospects for the eu milk sector review of the implementation of the milk package. the expiry of the milk quotas at the end of march 2015 and the russian dairy embargo since august 2014, which has had a negative impact on the eu internal market, have led to a significant fall in prices, resulting in a very high level of uncertainty. all of this has caused great problems for dairy farmers. i therefore support the call in the report for the commission to discuss the crisis currently facing the dairy sector and to take measures to prevent future crises.
in writing. ‒ the abolition of milk quotas is certainly one of the challenges for the milk and milk products sector. the eu's ability to cope with extremely volatile markets or crisis situations is questionable, and the proposal therefore stresses the importance of building a successful, sustainable and competitive dairy sector across the eu (eliminating concentration in certain regions) and proposes the creation of appropriate crisis instruments to respond to the high level of price volatility and other problems facing the sector. it is also essential to eliminate unfair trading practices and thus protect farmers who are already in a vulnerable position, which is why i supported this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this non-binding resolution, which aims to tackle new challenges that have recently arisen such as the end of milk quotas, the russian embargo on eu foodstuffs and price volatility. the eu must do more to help its dairy sector and use the existing tools more effectively, in order to take full advantage of the many long-term opportunities. export markets must be diversified in order to help eu producers deal with new contingencies like the ban on eu imports imposed by russia. overall, the eu must better balance the food supply chain, further improve milk market monitoring, introduce better tools for dealing with market disturbances and provide further incentives for dairy farmers.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report because it very clearly encourages the european commission to do more to ensure equal treatment in competition for business outside the european union. the eu is very open and very strict about making its calls for tenders as open as possible to everyone, while on the other hand european companies are often at a disadvantage to 'domestic' bidders and through international agreements these things need to be improved and the procedural and technical obstacles that stand in the way of european companies winning contracts in public-private partnerships have to be removed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the external impact of eu trade and investment policy on public-private initiatives in non-eu countries. public-private partnerships, which are underused by member states, have been driven by the forces of economic growth, innovation, competitiveness and job creation, both in the single market and beyond, as the report rightly points out. this mechanism is also appropriate for poverty reduction in third countries. i would like to point out that we often do not listen enough to the countries that know best which projects are best for them.
in writing. ‒ interest in public-private partnerships has grown in recent years, and the need for fiscal restraint in oecd (and eu) countries is likely to increase the need for them. the inta committee has therefore examined in more detail the challenges of public-private partnerships under the eu's common commercial policy with a view to enhancing the competitiveness of eu businesses and cooperation in public procurement in third countries. there are a large number of potential benefits and risks for both the public and private sectors. increased participation by european companies in large-scale international projects, in particular in public-private partnerships, would bring significant benefits in terms of job creation, productivity, competitiveness, technology development and innovation, which can lead to economic growth in the eu and in host countries, which is why i supported this report.
(unintelligible word) i supported the report by mr mel, because producer organisations are the right answer in the vegetable sector to joint production planning, joint cost reduction and, of course, marketing in the increasingly harsh conditions of agricultural trade. the fruit and vegetable sector covers only 3% of european agricultural land and the value of this product is as high as 18%. so we are talking about an intensive agricultural sector, which also employs 550,000 people. the report also makes clear the need to encourage countries where there are no producer organisations. i come from slovenia, where unfortunately we have no producer organisation. i myself took the initiative of organising a conference in the european parliament, a review of belgian good practice and a consultation in slovenia, and i hope that this report and the current situation in this field will encourage the slovenian minister of agriculture to draw up a strategy in slovenia and to set up the first producer organisations.
in writing. ‒ this resolution welcomes the commission's report describing the development of the fruit and vegetables sector regulation after the 2007 reform. i supported the resolution because it encourages farmers to join producer organisations and associations in order to increase their bargaining power, strengthen their position in the food supply chain and thereby also increase their income. it is also important to increase competitiveness, which could be achieved by eliminating red tape, improving assistance to organisations and introducing better mechanisms to manage crisis periods. i support efforts to eliminate unfair trading practices in the food supply chain, help to enter new markets and, last but not least, strengthen activities that contribute to the consumption of more fruit and vegetables.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the fruit and vegetables sector since the 2007 reform. the fruit and vegetable sector plays a very important role in many areas of the european union. from fruit and vegetable producers, who are mostly small and medium-sized enterprises, to healthy and balanced diets. the fruit and vegetable sector is also very important in slovenia and has a lot of room for improvement, both in terms of technology and marketing. i therefore support organisations and associations of producer organisations which seek to increase the competitiveness of this sector and i would like to see producer organisations introduced in slovenia as well.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the fruit and vegetables sector since the 2007 reform. the report represents the european parliament's reading of the european commission's report on the implementation of the provisions relating to producer organisations, operational funds and operational programmes in the fruit and vegetables sector since the 2007 reform. eu policy for this sector focuses on strengthening the role of producer organisations to increase competitiveness, productivity, support research and innovation, improve promotion and marketing, prevent and manage market crises, improve the position of producers in the food supply chain and promote environmentally friendly practices.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this non-binding resolution which calls on the eu to introduce better tools for dealing with market disturbances and help farmers to find new outlets for produce, as a consequence of the prolonged russian ban on imports from the eu. the eu must encourage growers to join producer organisations so as to increase their bargaining power, strengthen their position in the food supply chain and thus improve their incomes. it is also essential to increase their competitiveness and tackle unfair trading practices. furthermore, the eu must help its farmers find new outlets for their products and facilitate exports in times of unforeseen crises.
in writing. when designing the commission's 2016 programme, we need to keep in mind the following priorities: reducing the administrative burden on citizens and businesses (reducing the number of legislative proposals and focusing on the main priorities), new incentives for jobs, growth and investment, a resilient energy union and a sensible and balanced free trade agreement with the us. the key challenge remains the area of justice and fundamental rights. we need to take measures to promote the employability of european workers and to address the problems of the long-term unemployed, especially young people. our priority is a resilient energy union, leading to greater energy and economic independence, as well as ensuring the political independence and stability of the eu. climate change policy must be future-oriented, and the reform of the emissions trading system (ets) is also important. a reasonable and balanced free trade agreement with the united states is of strategic importance. it is the most important project which, if successfully completed, will, in addition to its trade aspects, revitalise the transatlantic partnership as a whole. i support the pursuit of a mutually beneficial agreement that fully respects european social, environmental and consumer protection standards. and crucially, justice and fundamental rights. the commission should act more systematically in the field of cooperation in civil and criminal matters and in the field of the further development of the european area of justice and the protection of human rights in the union.
i support the amendments to the directives on the promotion of long-term shareholder participation which require large companies operating in the european union to publish data where they declare their profits and pay taxes. smes are in a worse position than multinational companies, which shift their profits to tax havens. as companies publish more data, this will also mean an increase in competition, as data on where monopoly profits are generated will be known and companies will know which market is better and safer to invest in. multinationals wishing to operate in the european market take advantage of tax systems in their operations and reduce their tax burden to the lowest possible level. such transparency, together with the planned amendments to the directive on the mandatory exchange of tax rulings, is a good conduit for promoting competitive conditions and investment activity.
some 50 years ago, such provisions and proposals would likely have met with disapproval, even opposition from company executives. of course, today is different. after the severe economic crisis that we've had since luxleaks, after the many tax havens that have happened in the past, of course, this has also convinced the public that they have a right to demand more transparency, more transparency in the way companies do business, and in fact, even the larger companies and the large multinationals are being asked to be more transparent in their business, including reporting their profits, their taxes, everything they need to know to be able to have confidence in their business. in this way, if it succeeds, as the commission proposes, we can hope that in the future there will be no players who do not play by the rules, and we can gradually restore confidence in the political and therefore ... (the president was interrupted by the speaker. )
in writing. global trends such as inefficient use of resources, the intolerable pressure on the environment and climate change will soon reach irreversible effects. this report looks at how to harness the employment potential to address these challenges and to develop policies and skills for the transition to a green economy. the transition to a sustainable economy can create new quality jobs or green existing jobs. sustainable economic growth is only possible if environmental constraints are respected. the new european fund for strategic investments is another opportunity for targeted quality investment. the commission and the member states should therefore also promote quality investments that generate social and economic benefits under this fund. investments should be targeted at areas with a positive impact on the labour market in order to create sustainable jobs. public procurement policy also has a role to play, by applying sustainability provisions to responsible sourcing. member states should fully implement the new provisions of the revised eu public procurement legislation and consider whether the introduction of environmental and social criteria in public procurement policies could encourage job creation in a greener economy.
in writing. i welcome the report because i think it is fundamentally good. the green economy is now present in all sectors of the whole chain, and rightly so. i think the eu here, globally, is the one that other countries are following. however, i would point out that the right balance needs to be struck, with a balance between green employment and the burdens that would result from it on the economy. we have to be really careful about that. we must not forget that the economic picture in the member states is very different indeed. i would also point out that it is of the utmost importance that member states encourage innovation in this area and provide a favourable economic environment for smes that show potential, especially in terms of their positive impact on employment.
in writing. the european union is no longer business as usual. we have to act now! luxembourg is one of the most experienced countries with a clear long-term vision and a strong voice in the union, as is slovenia. how to restore trust, bring people, countries, european and national policies closer together - that will be our greatest challenge. citizens need to feel again that they are part of the process and not part of the problem. the debate on refugees today is focused on numbers, not on the need for a comprehensive migration policy. if the luxembourg presidency is serious, it should provide support among eu governments for the fair distribution of refugees and reach an ambitious agreement this year on the directive on students and researchers. the debate on tightening asylum and visa policies, the introduction of a european pnr, automated borders focuses too much on security risks. such measures must not jeopardise the fundamental right to privacy. will the 110-mile-long wall between hungary and serbia really solve the immigrant problem? - no, please! he's gonna add fuel to the fire. it is a shame that we are rebuilding walls on european soil. we need to address problems at their source. why are nationalist, populist and extremist rhetoric on the rise? why are more and more young europeans going to the battlefields of syria and iraq? that's what we have to worry about. we must give europe its soul - cooperation and dialogue - and europeans hope for a life of security and dignity.
the story of greece 2015 has a number of faces and even more interpreters. in my humble opinion, it is that the far-left government has awakened an old paradigm, a pre-modern economic and political culture and practice that is expressed in life at the expense of the next generation. the greek government wants to introduce socialism, which would be co-financed by european taxpayers. in the world of normal culture, things are different, because responsibility and ethics are built into the way of business and political life. personal and social well-being depend on the achievements of the work. the greek government sees solidarity as one-way. i ask if it is fair that my country, slovenia, had to give greece 1.7 billion euros in loans and guarantees, the highest per capita in the european union. how do we convince the slovenian taxpayer to continue funding someone who has a higher standard and who demands debt forgiveness? respected ! five months ago, siriza took over the country with a healthy economy and a projected economic growth of 2.6%. in five short months, the party has destroyed the efforts of previous governments and plunged the country back into recession. it is up to the greek government to present a new and economically sound proposal, which must include reforms that will improve the economic environment so that greece finally becomes self-sustaining. but frankly, i doubt that will happen, as mr. tsipras's government has shown no desire for a deal. besides, she lost her trust. in order to be successful, at least two credible negotiators are needed.
one year ago today, the first attack on gaza began, resulting in the deaths of 1,500 civilians, including 500 children. over 70 israeli soldiers were also killed. i would ask you to honor the memory of all these needless victims with a moment of silence and with the hope that the peace process in the middle east will lead to lasting peace.
on behalf of the s&d group. terrorist attacks have shaken europe to its core this year and demand strong condemnation. against violence and hatred, we europeans must stand together, on the basis of the values that unite us: equality, freedom, democracy, respect and tolerance. the socialists and democrats not only stress the need to strengthen security and the social causes of radicalism, but also to tackle the roots of terrorism in third countries. we have to deal with poverty, we have to deal with conflict. it's wrong to say that all acts of terrorism are religiously motivated. terrorists and extremists thrive when people don't trust each other, build social walls and stereotypes. this is not a conflict between islam and the west. the big challenge is the young europeans who go to the battlefields of iraq and syria and will come back. we need to improve education programs, social inclusion, understanding between different countries and religions. the european passenger name record (pnr) may be becoming indispensable for many, but let us not, please, introduce measures that will simply make every passenger a potential terrorist. if he can defeat fear in europe, the terrorists have won. i believe, my colleagues, that our weapon in the fight against terrorism, radicalisation, extremism, must be freedom of expression. human dignity and security must prevail over fear and hatred in europe.
cuba has been for years a taboo subject in many ways, a country isolated from economic cooperation with both europe and the united states, and all of this has, of course, had consequences on both sides. i therefore welcome the progress made towards relations and an agreement with cuba, but we must be very careful. this is a country that will not allow itself to be imposed, will not allow itself to be imposed by so-called democracy. and i think that the european union must also respect diversity, differences and actually give the cuban people the opportunity to decide for themselves their future. and when we talk about human rights violations, of course you can read many of the decisions of the european court of human rights here in strasbourg, and you will see that there are human rights violations in other countries as well.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, unfortunately i have to deplore from the outset the fact that the european union report on human rights does not follow a stated principle that we in our relations with the third countries attach priority to respect for human rights and international law. there are countries like morocco, armenia, israel, turkey and others which enjoy a permanent discount on their systemic violations of human rights and occupation of foreign territories. let me give you two examples. some days ago, the guardian reported on how morocco manipulated confidential reports of the united nations concerning human rights violations and the situation in western sahara. today – this is the second example – this house has ignored my call to commemorate the 1 500 civilian palestinian victims, among them 500 children, who were killed in the attack on gaza exactly one year ago on 8 july. it was too difficult for this parliament to commemorate this event. can we do better in the future? certainly not with the new organisational chart of the eeas presented recently by its secretary-general. according to the proposed draft paper, the current directorate for human rights and democracy is being downgraded to an ordinary unit. this change of status is unacceptable and will certainly damage our overall effort to protect human rights.
the rapporteur, mr danjean, has analysed very lucidly the tectonic crisis we are experiencing in the middle east and africa, but i think that even today's analysis and discussion of the report would not be complete if we did not admit that this tectonic crisis is the result of a chain of our mistakes and misjudgments of the situation in this area. our illusions that we were going to export the european model of democracy to the middle east, our mistakes in supporting all those who told us they were fighters for democracy, our inaction when the dictator bashir brutally violated human rights and committed genocide in darfur, our recklessness in the creation of the state of south sudan, our ineffectiveness in the dialogue on peace between the palestinians and israel, our misjudgment of the arab spring. we have enough knowledge in europe, we must be able to use it for effective policy.
i very much appreciate the efforts of the commissioner, his team and the whole commission to promote our values, our principles and our interests in the wider neighbourhood in these changed circumstances, aware that we need to go beyond the former strategic approach based on a single vision of our neighbourhood. in the changed circumstances, we must pay much more attention to the pragmatic aspect, we must do everything to make progress wherever possible, and we must not forget our principles while respecting the realistic framework. i'm glad to see a commissioner who understands our neighborhood and puts that understanding into practice. i think we will be facing very difficult challenges for a long time, which will require many adjustments to the new situation, but i know that we will work together in such a way as to strengthen the peace, strengthen the area that shares common values, common principles, and also in the perspective of common rules.
on behalf of the s&d group. 70 years ago, europe was bleeding. poverty and the ravages of war have laid the foundations of today's european union, united in peace, equality, solidarity, democracy, tolerance and respect for human rights. (summary of the speech, repeat from the beginning. the fight has to start where it hurts the most. i believe that the painful memory of the genocide, the slaughter of more than 8,000 bosniaks 20 years ago in srebrenica, that persecution and agony are an opportunity for reconciliation. on the 60th anniversary of the liberation of auschwitz, former german chancellor schroeder said: "the temptation to forget is enormous, but we will not succumb to it. ˮthis applies to all the peoples of the western balkans. we must all join in paying tribute to all the victims of the srebrenica massacre and the wars in the territory of the former yugoslavia. there is no freedom, no justice, no human dignity if we forget or turn a blind eye to crimes. srebrenica must serve as a reminder that such heinous crimes must never be repeated. more than a thousand people are still missing today. on saturday, we will pay homage to their memory in srebrenica. i welcome the joint resolution that we will be voting on in this house today. regional cooperation and the rapprochement of bosnia and herzegovina with the union are the best way to achieve reconciliation and to overcome hatred and division. i regret that the resolution was not adopted by the united nations security council yesterday. when we discuss history, we have to go beyond political boundaries. and remember, admitting to the heinous crimes is a moral obligation on all of us, as is our collective moral commitment to help bosnia and herzegovina on its path to membership in the union.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. i cannot name in one minute all those who were killed in srebrenica. we cannot and must not run away from the truth and accept responsibility. and here international organisations also have a special responsibility. let the courts do their job, and let us pay tribute to the victims. let us salute the mothers who lost their children, the wives who lost their husbands, the sisters who lost their brothers. no one can make up for their losses, but we can help them by preventing the oblivion and attempts to relativize or forget this crime. let us insist on truth and justice for the victims and their families, and for those who are being held back by a crime committed in their name but without their responsibility, in the fight to turn the page, to live in harmony in a multiethnic community and to actually bring bosnia to where it belongs, including our international community, the community of the european union.
i am glad that we have agreed on the text in the main political groups. the original proposal had been widely criticised by artists and cultural industries. today we are opening a new debate to encourage the development of complementary legislation in this area. as with many other issues, a certain balance needs to be sought in the matter of copyright. we must respect the rights of cultural workers, while allowing wide access to cultural goods for the widest possible public. the report identified exceptions where copyright could be disregarded. the european people's party is in favour of the principle of subsidiarity in the field of copyright, so that each member state can retain a certain degree of autonomy in this area. this is particularly important to preserve the cultural diversity of the european union and to meet the specific needs of individual countries, especially smaller members. recently, there have been accusations that the european union is trying to restrict the right to publish so-called panoramas of private footage of famous cultural works, for example on facebook or other social networks. that's just not true. the text we are voting on today is a good one. it shall take into account the needs of end-users while insisting on the protection of intellectual property. thank you to all the authors.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's recommendations, which i supported last wednesday, are addressed to the european commission's negotiators on ttip. this gave us a green light for further talks but also gave very clear directions and warnings. the final decision will be taken by meps when they approve the final version of the agreement, and most of us are already aware of most of the concerns that have been raised in the public. i would stress that the priorities of the agreement remain, in particular, the removal of bureaucratic obstacles and customs duties, the liberalisation of online trade, the harmonisation of business legislation and the simplification of procedures for the provision of services. of course, there are areas in the eu that are particularly sensitive, such as agriculture, public services, consumer rights, environmental and labour standards, culture, etc. that is why, for example, the agri committee has given very clear guidance that we cannot and should not lower food safety standards because european agricultural policy has certain specificities that cannot be compared with the way farming is done in the usa. the agri committee's guidelines are clearly set out in the ep's motion for a resolution in points j and k, which clearly state that the ttip trade agreement must not jeopardise the current quality standards of european agricultural products and their future improvement, while preserving the european agricultural model and ensuring its economic and social viability.
in writing. ‒ this agreement is one of the answers to a changing world. it seems to me appropriate that such an important and ambitious project with long-term implications for transatlantic cooperation should be given special attention and a high level of transparency. it is no wonder that the general public is so keenly interested in this agreement and is demanding political and legal guarantees to maintain standards related to health, food, the environment and culture. the insistence on maintaining the standards in question seems to me to be insufficient, the common ambition should be to improve such standards with a common regulatory framework for the good of the people. so i agree that the agreement is not only for increased trade volume and geo-strategic interest, but also for the quality of goods on which our quality of life depends.
in writing. ‒ ttip will have a major impact on the removal of non-tariff barriers, but despite this, most quantitative studies that have been carried out so far clearly predict that national income and wages will rise by less than 1% over a period of 15 years. of course, it should be stressed that this is a one-off increase, not an annual increase. this is the most optimistic scenario that will apply in the event that non-tariff barriers are completely removed. despite the renaming of the isds mechanism, it remains in the ttip agreement, which i strongly oppose, as it would deprive member states of some of their legislative autonomy. i seriously wonder why we would need a mechanism that literally makes the eu member states worse off. in addition, the effects of the ttip on the slovenian economy as noted by the centre for business excellence in a study commissioned by the ministry of economy will be negligible or negative (slovenian gdp growth between -0.010 % and + 0.015 % of gdp, and may also include a loss of 218 to 1,500 jobs). for the reasons mentioned above and for the many other negative changes brought about by ttip, i voted against the adoption of the european parliament's report with recommendations to the european commission on the ttip negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report with the european parliament's recommendations to the european commission on the negotiations on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip). the european union must not be a passive observer in the process of globalisation, but must help to shape it. with ttip, we are giving people, businesses and consumers new opportunities. we want better access for our businesses in america. but we don't want to see rules and standards arbitrarily eliminated. nor will we accept any lowering of our standards in any area. i also welcome the compromise reached on the investor-state dispute settlement mechanism.
in writing. ‒ when the european union negotiates international agreements such as ttip, it is essential that the european parliament also expresses its opinion at all levels. this time we voted on the recommendations that the european parliament makes to the european commission. as ttip is a geopolitical agreement that represents the strengthening of a strategic alliance between two developed parts of the world and will boost economic activity on both sides and, through new jobs, also enable a higher standard of living for people, i supported this report.
in writing. ‒ as with the agreement with serbia, the report by mr weigl also envisages amending the protocol for the republic of macedonia upon croatia's accession to the european union. i therefore supported this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. this is a purely technical change which needs to be adapted in view of croatia's accession to the eu on 1 july 2013.
in writing. ‒ in september 2012, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia with a view to concluding a protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of croatia to the european union. the stabilisation and association agreement is just one more step towards bringing macedonia closer to the eu, which is why i supported this protocol.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation to conclude the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the eu and macedonia to take account of the accession of croatia to the eu. it is a purely formal protocol that is updated to reflect the changes introduced with the 2013 eu customs tariff and with the gradual abolition of duties under the saa, as a consequence of the entry of croatia into to the eu. it is a normal procedure involving countries that have signed stabilisation and association agreements with the eu, in view of their potential future membership of the union.
in writing. ‒ the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union has also made it necessary to amend the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the eu and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of serbia, of the other part. as a member of the delegation monitoring serbia's progress in the european parliament, i was also pleased to support the draft decision.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and serbia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. this is a purely technical change which needs to be adapted in view of croatia's accession to the eu on 1 july 2013.
in writing. ‒ in september 2012, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations with serbia with a view to concluding a protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and serbia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of croatia to the european union. the stabilisation and association agreement is just one more step towards serbia's rapprochement with the eu, which is why i supported this protocol.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation to conclude the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the eu and serbia to take account of the accession of croatia to the eu. it is a purely formal protocol that is updated to reflect the changes introduced with the 2013 eu customs tariff and with the gradual abolition of duties under the saa, as a consequence of the entry of croatia into to the eu. it is a normal procedure involving countries that have signed stabilisation and association agreements with the eu, in view of their potential future membership of the union.
in writing. ‒ based on past cooperation that has been fruitful and brought india closer to the european union in many areas, the extension of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the republic of india is more than reasonable and my support for these recommendations is therefore also appropriate.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has approved the extension of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation with india, which aims to promote research and development activities in science and technology in areas of mutual interest between the european community and india. i supported this report because of the positive impact of the agreement on the union's scientific and technological development.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of giving consent to the council to renew the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation with india. this agreement has been in force since 2001, and it is important that it is renewed for the next five years considering that the eu and india are pursuing common research and technological objectives in a number of areas of common interest, and mutual benefits may be therefore derived if the parties continue to engage in a cooperative manner.
in writing. ‒ the faroe islands are also joining the projects emerging from horizon 2000. i support the recommendation in the hope of further improving cooperation with this island country.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has given its consent to the conclusion of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the faroe islands, which associates the faroe islands to the horizon 2020 research and innovation framework programme. i supported this report because of the positive impact of the agreement on the union's scientific and technological development.
in writing. ‒ i also supported the report on promoting better cooperation between shareholders and management. often, shareholders are completely passive owners who are focused on the price of the stock and not so much on what they can do to help the company grow and benefit as owners. especially problematic are institutional investors, who, in their desire for short-term returns, forget that they are managing their clients' money in the long term. speculative trading also brings instability to financial markets, and experience has shown that a lack of control in this area can even lead to serious economic shocks. therefore, legal incentives to invest in securities in a long-term and responsible manner are more than welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the long-term shareholder cooperation report and the corporate governance statement, which would allow shareholders to vote at least every three years on the rules on the level of remuneration and remuneration of directors of a public limited company. the amendments to the directives on the promotion of long-term shareholder cooperation require large companies operating in the eu to publish data on where they declare their profits and pay taxes. smes are in a worse position than multinational companies, which shift their profits to tax havens. this will also lead to increased competition, as data will be available on where monopoly profits are generated and companies will know which market is better and safer to invest in.
in writing. ‒ the commission's proposal on certain elements of the corporate governance statement was published in 2014. the revision of the shareholder rights directive is part of the initiatives envisaged in the european commission's action plan 'european company law and corporate governance - a modern legal framework for better shareholder engagement and sustainable enterprises'. the most important proposals are shareholder identification, facilitating the communication of relevant information between the company and shareholders and the exercise of shareholders' rights, transparency provisions for institutional investors, asset managers and proxy advisors, new rules on the remuneration of directors, new rules on related party transactions (rpts) and so on. since many of the suggestions made by our group were taken into account, i supported this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for an ep and council directive concerning several aspects of corporate governance because it represents an important step towards greater transparency in the governance of european companies. large firms will have to disclose information, country by country, on profits made, tax paid on profits and public subsidies received. these new provisions will empower shareholders to vote at least every three years on directors’ pay policy and, on a general note, they will foster shareholders’ long-run commitment to companies. the country-by-country reporting principle will oblige multinationals to openly declare the taxes they pay in each country they operate: these are significant instruments to fight tax evasion and tax avoidance.
in writing. ‒ at first reading, i supported the report by mr belett, which substantially modified the european commission's document on the establishment and operation of the market stability reserve in the context of greenhouse gas emissions trading. in particular, in the context of the free allocation of co2 emission rules, it is necessary to determine what will happen after 2020, when the current co2 emission scheme expires. on this point, i agree with the rapporteur that there is certainly a need for further discussion on how to improve the allocation of free allowances, especially in the light of changing production rates.
in writing. ‒ the market stability reserve mechanism will create a better ets, by ensuring that the prices of co2 have the right balance to incentivise a low carbon economy on one hand and on the other hand avoid too low or too high prices because of over-supply or over-demand of emission allowances. the ets is one of the basic building blocks which will allow europe to effectively fight against climate change and also create a positive incentive for the transition from fossil fuels. i am a big supporter of the initiative and i consider the negotiations with the council a fair compromise.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the establishment and operation of the market stability reserve for the union's greenhouse gas emissions trading system. it's a compromise. a compromise between climate policy and industrial policy. on the one hand, we all want to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and co2 emissions, and on the other hand, we all want to preserve the european industry without which there are no jobs. we need to maintain global competitiveness. i think the report is ambitious enough.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the establishment and operation of the market stability reserve for the union's greenhouse gas emissions trading system. in january 2014, the commission adopted the proposal for the ets-msr (the european union emissions trading system market stability reserve) with the aim of introducing structural changes to the emissions trading system. in doing so, it addressed the issue of the surplus of emission allowances that had accumulated in the system since 2009 (currently estimated at more than two billion). the commission proposed that a market stability reserve be created from 2021 onwards, into which the compensation would be pooled and could also be released under certain conditions. more specifically, the commission proposed that the compensation be added to the reserve if the surplus exceeded eur 833 million and released if it fell below eur 400 million.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which concerns a reform of the eu emissions trading scheme. the reform, which will start operating in 2019, aims at reducing the surplus of carbon credits available for trading in order to support the price of the emission rights. the main idea behind the reform is that it is necessary to ensure sufficient guarantees for energy-intensive industries (for which achieving less co2 emission requires very large investments), in order to prevent them from delocalising their production facilities to countries outside the eu that have less stringent climate policies. this reform goes in the right direction towards achieving the goal of a 40% reduction of co2 emissions by 2030 that europe has set itself. it is also positive that this reform will start operating earlier than initially foreseen by the commission (2019 instead of 2021).
in writing. ‒ in supporting this report, i welcome the strengthening of the rights of seafarers, insofar as they sail under one of the 28 member states' flags, by amending the five directives on workers' rights so as to include seafarers in their scope. an agreement with the social partners was also adopted, bringing us closer to eradicating unfair competition between member states. the eu's maritime sector is a key sector in the world economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending the directives relating to seafarers. the aim of the directive is to increase the number of jobs and improve working conditions on board ships through investments in research, education, training and health. in slovenia, we have been facing a decline in interest in seafarers' work in recent years, and i therefore support increasing the attractiveness of work in maritime transport, which will be achieved through better jobs and better competitive conditions, which will benefit both workers and employers.
in writing. ‒ the commission's proposal to include seafarers in 6 directives from which they were previously excluded. these are: directive 2008/94/ec on the protection of workers in the event of the insolvency of their employer, directive 2009/38/ec establishing a european works council, directive 2002/14/ec establishing a general framework for the information and consultation of workers, directive 98/59/ec on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to collective redundancies and directive 2001/23/ec on the safeguarding of workers' rights in the event of transfers of undertakings. it is important to ensure basic conditions for all workers, regardless of the sector in which they are employed, and i supported this proposal.
in writing. ‒ on the basis of the recommendations of the committee on industry, research and energy, i have approved the conclusion of an agreement with the swiss confederation to join certain research and development programmes within the eu.
in writing. ‒ the recommendation addresses and welcomes the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and switzerland on scientific and technological cooperation, which associates switzerland to the horizon 2020 framework programme for research and innovation and governs its participation in the activities of the iter project. the agreement lays down the terms and conditions for the participation of switzerland in the implementation of horizon 2020, the actions under the objective 'promoting excellence and increasing participation', the euratom programme and the activities of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the period 2014-2020. particularly concerning is the participation of switzerland in fusion for energy activities. the iter project is one of the least sustainable programmes funded by the european union and may not provide concrete, practical and usable solutions until at least 2050. the delays in implementation and the poorly defined results indicate that the future way of implementing this project should be carefully considered. unfortunately, there is no sign of this happening yet, and i did not support the reports on the draft council decision on swiss participation in the iter project activities in the vote.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has given its consent to the conclusion of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the european atomic energy community, of the one part, and the swiss confederation, of the other part, on the swiss confederation's association with horizon 2020, the european atomic energy community programme complementing horizon 2020, and on its participation in the activities of the iter project carried out by the fusion for energy joint undertaking. i supported this report because of the positive impact of the agreement on the union's scientific and technological development.
in writing. ‒ i supported the guidelines for employment policies drawn up by the employment committee, as i believe that the cooperation of member states in the exchange of experience is crucial in the fight against unemployment in the eu. we know that some countries are more successful in this area than others, and mutual aid is a useful tool here. the area of retraining and the employment of the low-skilled workforce, which is the most vulnerable and powerless in today's globalised world, is the biggest challenge for employment policies.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on guidelines for member states' employment policies, which calls for the development of effective and coordinated employment strategies designed to combat the consequences of unemployment, to promote skilled, trained and adaptable workers and labour markets that are responsive to change. the adaptation of education systems, and in particular the encouragement of training in technical and natural skills, is also necessary to achieve the goal of full employment and social progress.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states. for the first time since 2010, the guidelines for employment policies will be revised. in recent years, the economic crisis has led to high unemployment, especially among young people, and increasing poverty. these are important issues that we need to address. i welcome the commission's priorities, which i believe are well-placed: creating jobs through structural reforms and a responsible financial policy. we need to promote youth entrepreneurship, youth mobility within the european union and improve the transition from school to work.
in writing. ‒ the tfeu provides that member states are to treat their economic policies and promote employment policy as a common theme and coordinate their activities within the council. the legal basis (articles 121 and 148 tfeu) of the guidelines is set out in two legal instruments: - the council recommendation on broad guidelines for the economic policies of the member states and of the union and - the council decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states. the integrated guidelines were first adopted in 2010 and form the basis of the europe 2020 strategy. in march 2015, the commission published a new proposal for integrated guidelines based on increasing demand for labour, increasing labour supply and skills, improving the functioning of labour markets and ensuring fairness, fighting poverty and promoting equal opportunities. the member states must take appropriate measures in the field of employment policy, which is why i supported this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which approves the proposal put forward by the commission to have a council decision on the future guidelines for the employment policies of member states. the report highlights the current high levels of unemployment in the eu and calls for an effective and coordinated strategy to counter the effects of unemployment, placing particular emphasis on youth unemployment. the report finds it essential to come up with reliable indicators of poverty and to develop tools to reduce it. an important aspect that is highlighted is the need for member states to closely coordinate their economic policies and social policies within the council in order to achieve more concrete results.
in writing. ‒ i supported the allocation of eur 1.36 million from the european globalisation adjustment fund to the finnish province of north ostrobothnia, which is already under heavy pressure from the layoffs of the formerly large multinational nokia. i can only regret once again that my country, slovenia, which is also experiencing some redundancies due to globalisation, is virtually unwilling to use the eu's adaptation resources.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is designed to support redundant workers and self-employed persons who have been made redundant or have ceased their activity as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. the application for a financial contribution submitted by finland to assist broadcom communications and two suppliers which have had to lay off 568 redundant workers due to the cessation of all activities in finland meets the eligibility criteria for the aid. the redundancies in these companies were the result of major structural changes in world trade flows due to globalisation. since 2000, the number of employees in finnish branches has increased on all continents until asia became the largest employer in the electronics and electrical industries in 2004. this has resulted in a reduction in the number of employees in europe. the finnish authorities point out that this trend has affected the entire domestic electronics industry. the package of co-financed services covers three important areas that will help workers to re-enter the labour market: assistance in finding a new job, assistance in setting up their own business and education or training, which is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund for the role of broadcom. the redundancy of 568 workers at broadcom communications finland started in 2004 when asia became the largest employer in the electronics and electrical industry, and peaked in 2011. the application thus fulfils all the criteria for the award of aid from the european globalisation adjustment fund, as these events are largely linked to significant structural changes in world trade flows due to globalisation.
in writing. ‒ the egf is an instrument to support workers who have lost their jobs and provides vocational guidance, help in finding a job and so on. the report discusses a proposal to mobilise funds for the benefit of finland to support the reintegration of broadcom's unemployed workers back into the labour market. finland has requested eur 1 365 000. this will help some 500 redundant workers to re-enter the labour market, and i have therefore supported this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which acknowledges that this application made by finland fulfils the eligibility criteria set up by the egf regulation and therefore finland is entitled to a financial contribution of € 1 365 000. broadcom has had lots of redundancies since the early 2000s due to asia emerging as the largest employer in the electronics and electrical industry. this situation arose in the context of a wider unemployment problem in the finnish region of northern ostrobothnia. it is particularly positive that the application process was very speedy, taking only five months between submission and approval, meaning that workers will soon benefit from the financial relief envisaged by the egf.
in writing. ‒ in support of this report, we have given a mandate to mr fernandez to negotiate on behalf of the european parliament with the european council and the european commission in the preparation of the 2016 budget. the guidelines he proposed are also very important because, in the end, parliament will still have the final say in adopting the budget. the main challenges will be to deal with the outstanding payment claims at the end of the year, which have now stopped growing but still reached an unprecedented level of eur 24,7 billion at the end of 2014.
in writing. ‒ in the 2014-2020 financial period, the european union aims to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 growth strategy. the funds will be invested in fostering innovation, creating jobs, managing migration more effectively and further strengthening the eu's role as a global actor. the european fund for strategic investments, financed by applying part of the common difference up to the ceiling and from horizon 2020 and the cef, was included in the 2016 draft budget for this purpose, among others. the reallocation of funds from these two programmes is risky, as, for example, horizon 2020 is widely recognised as a key priority under the current multiannual financial framework. therefore, efforts should be made to further balance the proposed reduction of the appropriations for these programmes by increasing the use of the remaining gap up to the ceiling. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new iter programme. iter is one of the least sustainable eu-funded projects. the delay, the constant increase in costs and the poorly identifiable results should be sufficient indicators to call the programme into question also in the draft budget for 2016. for this reason in particular, i abstained from voting on the draft budget for 2016.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the mandate for the trilogue on the draft budget for 2016. i welcome the fact that the budget places a strong emphasis on investment. as much as 94% of the budget is allocated to investment and only 6% to the administrative part. i'm glad the budget puts a big emphasis on youth employment, strengthening the youth guarantee. in the coming year, we must continue to fund horizon 2020 and the programme for the competitiveness of enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises (cosme), which are the driving forces of the european economy. i also welcome the fact that the report sees cohesion policy as the eu's main investment policy, which aims to reduce disparities between european regions by increasing economic, social and territorial cohesion.
in writing. - i supported the trialogue mandate report. the report shall correspond to the second stage of the annual budgetary procedure. the trialogue mandate contains an assessment of the draft budget adopted by the commission on 27 may and sets out parliament's position on the trialogue scheduled for 14 july 2015 and on the future negotiations on the eu budget for 2016, which will begin in the autumn.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mandate to start trilogues on the 2016 budget because the commission proposal addresses a series of key priorities, such as an effective energy union and the delivery of a digital single market. it also foresees additional funding to tackle the challenges of migration as well as a fairer distribution of asylum seekers between member states. overall, the new budget satisfactorily addresses crucial issues, such as employment, enterprises and increasing competitiveness.
in writing. ‒ i supported the own-initiative report on the promotion of the green economy, because it is very clear that investments in the green economy and in the use of renewable energy sources also generate new jobs. a good example from my country, slovenia, is the use of wood biomass, which, with a larger scale of use, would further reduce dependence on imported fossil fuels and at the same time, with its side effects (electricity, heat for agricultural activity ...) ensure lower costs and, consequently, also jobs.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report because it highlights that the transition to sustainable societies and economies, including sustainable consumption and production patterns, can create potential both in terms of creating new jobs and in terms of turning existing jobs green in virtually all sectors and across the value chain, and in new green high-tech sectors such as renewable energy sources and in traditional economic sectors, agriculture and fisheries, and in the service sectors. the report also highlights that investments in renewable energy and energy efficiency can create many new jobs, contribute to the competitiveness of the european economy and industry, and help reduce europe's energy dependence.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the green jobs initiative: harnessing the potential of the green economy to create new jobs. the european union needs new jobs. green jobs are not a cost, they are a future and an opportunity. they are the answer to global challenges, sustainable development and climate change. the green economy has a huge potential that we are not aware of and that we are not using enough.
in writing. ‒ last year, the commission also published a green action plan for smes and a communication on the circular economy, together with the green jobs initiative. the report aims to identify the strategic framework conditions that will enable labour market and skills policies to support employment and job creation in the green economy. the report proposes tools to ensure that the employment and environment agendas contribute to the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives, while focusing on a number of issues such as tax reforms, environmental and energy efficiency and resource efficiency, highlighting the role of smes, and so on. as the transition to a green economy will also mean the creation of new jobs and the transformation of existing ones, i supported the initiative.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it supports the commission proposal to foster employment creation linked to the production of energy from renewable sources, energy efficiency, waste and water management, air quality, restoring and preserving biodiversity, and developing green infrastructure. the key aspect is that through the increase in the efficiency of production processes, through adopting innovative solutions to save resources and offering more sustainable products and services, companies can at the same time expand their markets and create new jobs. structural changes in the wider economy will create demand for new skills and occupations. the report endorses the view that adequate eu funding must be guaranteed to support this green transition and that the european structural and investment funds will be the key sources of investment to promote sustainable growth and job creation.
in writing. ‒ at the july session, i supported a very demanding and detailed resolution on tax evasion in developing countries. the effective collection of taxes is one of the foundations of the normal functioning of the state and its system. even in the eu, as a developed community of nations, we still have a few problems with this. the experience gained should therefore help developing countries to de-bureaucratize their tax laws as much as possible, while simplifying their tax policies, thus also facilitating the control of tax collection and stabilising tax inflows.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on tax evasion and tax avoidance as challenges to governance, social protection and development in developing countries. support for developing countries needs to be strengthened. but in doing so, we must identify the real needs of countries and analyse the causes of all these problems. it's not enough to give money, because we haven't done anything if it doesn't get into the right hands. i welcome the commission's call to present as soon as possible an ambitious action plan to support developing countries in the fight against tax evasion and avoidance and to help them establish fair, balanced, efficient and transparent tax systems.
in writing. ‒ together with the pereira report (on financing for development, may 2015), this report forms a package of european parliament positions ahead of the third international conference on financing for development, to be held in july 2015. the reports address the challenges faced by developing countries in tax matters and tax administration, as well as the need for greater transparency and efficiency in national and international tax systems. as tax evasion and tax avoidance are problems faced by all countries and can have negative consequences for national budgets, employment, productivity, working conditions and so on, i supported this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which calls on the commission to promptly develop an action plan to support developing countries in fighting tax evasion and tax avoidance and to help them set up fair, well-balanced, efficient and transparent tax systems. the report furthermore calls on the eu to increase its assistance to developing countries in support of the aim of taxing adequately the extraction of natural resources. another key aspect of the report is that it calls on the eu and its member states to enforce the principle that listed or unlisted multinational companies of all countries and sectors, and especially those companies extracting natural resources, must adopt country-by-country reporting (cbcr) as a standard, requiring them to publish, as part of their annual reporting and on a country-by-country basis for each territory in which they operate, the names of all subsidiaries and their respective financial performance, relevant tax information, assets and number of employees, and to ensure that this information is made publicly available.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased to have been able to support the circular economy report, whose main objective is to develop a strategy for the efficient and sustainable use of natural resources. i also welcome the views of mr timmermans and mr katainen, two vice-presidents of the european commission, who are drawing up an ambitious plan for a circular economy on the way to a waste-free europe. europe is the continent with the most ambitious environmental targets. we have the highest standards in environmental protection and human health. we must use these standards as a competitive advantage. one of the key areas of the circular economy is resource conservation, recycling and reuse. in adopting this approach to resource management, it is very important to involve local and regional authorities, as without their active role there will be no results. because real life happens among people, on the ground. it is also important to involve young people in understanding the circular economy. the education system must contribute to raising awareness of the importance of conserving resources. i also see in the circular economy new opportunities for new jobs, for innovation. energy saving and energy efficiency, one of the eu's key objectives, are also important.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a report calling for binding targets for waste reduction, complementary legislation on the environmental design of products and measures to decouple growth from the use of natural resources. the circular economy is a challenge for the eu, as it will ensure economic and social sustainability and encourage the efficient use of resources. the 70% import of raw materials is too high and could be reduced by recycling and reusing the raw materials and products we throw away. it would also be more effective in preserving our environment. we need to set higher standards for the circular economy and see it as an opportunity for new business models, investment and competitiveness.
in writing. ‒ i could not support the resolution because it adopted points that are unacceptable to my political group. in response to rising pollution and inefficient use of resources, the commission presented a 'circular economy package' in 2014. the package includes an introductory idea for a programme for a waste-free europe, a legislative proposal for a review of waste legislation, a communication on resource efficiency in the construction sector, a communication on a green action plan for small and medium-sized enterprises and a communication on green employment. the communication calls for binding resource efficiency targets and the development of resource efficiency indicators. i did not support this resolution because the demands of our political group were not respected. it is important to strike a balance between the challenges of a green (circular) economy and the associated costs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that working towards a circular economy is a key step towards implementing the resource efficiency agenda established under the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. circular economy systems keep the added value in products for a longer time and significantly reduce waste. the idea is to make use of resources more efficiently; once a product has reached the end of its life, these resources can be used several more times and thus continue to generate value. a circular economy is today an essential way to address the current and future challenges of global pressure on resources and rising insecurity of supply.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from the final vote on the report by ms pietikäinen on resource efficiency, as the transition to a circular economy can bring many benefits for both the environment and the economy, but at the same time many of the report's requirements represent an unnecessary increase in bureaucracy and are not sufficiently finalised (e.g. the expansion of ecodesign requirements, which in some respects have proven to be bad in the past). unlike the traditional linear economy, which is based on the 'take' 'make' 'use' model, the circular economy is based on re-use, repair and recycling. the circular economy can reduce environmental pressures, have a positive impact on health and reduce europe's dependence on imported raw materials, and could create up to 2 million jobs by 2030, according to european commission estimates. according to some studies, the energy efficiency of buildings could generate over eur 1 billion a year in the eu. with proper building insulation, the eu could save millions of tonnes of fossil fuels and drastically reduce co2 emissions. according to some estimates, an effective circular economy could bring savings of between 12% and 23% for companies in the purchase of materials. i therefore expect the legislative proposal that the european commission will draw up by the end of 2015 to be more sophisticated than the pietikäinen report, while taking into account all the benefits that the circular economy can bring to europe's economy, environment and people.
in writing. ‒ i supported a report that builds on the 2010 legislation on the establishment of maximum limits for radioactive contamination of foodstuffs in the event of nuclear accidents or other events that could cause contamination. parliament insists that it is willing to cooperate in any changes to these limit values if future research should lead to a change in certain aspects, which seems to me to be the only right way forward.
in writing. ‒ the resolution on the proposal for a regulation sets maximum permitted levels of radioactive contamination of food and feed which may be placed on the ec market following a nuclear accident or any other radiological hazard. i supported the report because it puts the provision of a high level of human health protection at the forefront of the definition and implementation of all union policies and activities. the report calls for consideration of the impact of natural and cumulative radiation throughout the food chain and for the implementation of regular inspections and other joint actions in the veterinary field, the direct objective of which is to protect human health. it also calls for the legal basis on public health and the internal market in the lisbon treaty to be amended, thereby involving the european parliament as a co-legislator under the ordinary legislative procedure and not merely as a consultative body. i also support the strengthened calls for the commission to review implementing measures relating to nuclear accidents and other radiological hazards, as well as for the updating of provisions laying down maximum permitted levels of radioactive contamination of food.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on maximum permitted levels of radioactive contamination of food and feed following a nuclear accident or any other radiological emergency. we all know the events in chernobyl and fukushima, which caused a lot of devastation, including in the food and feed sectors. it is essential that in the event of a radiological accident or radiological emergency in third countries, the european union responds quickly and effectively to ensure that food and feed meet the conditions for import. i also welcome the special procedure in emergency cases without prior examination, where it is necessary to take immediate action to ensure consumer safety.
in writing. ‒ the proposed council regulation sets maximum permitted levels of radioactive contamination of food and feed which may be present on the eu market following a nuclear accident or any other radiological hazard. it also lays down the procedures and implementing powers in this regard. maximum permitted levels apply to food originating in the eu or imported from third countries, depending on the location and circumstances of the nuclear accident or other emergency. i supported the report because it is about protecting all of us as consumers and it is therefore very important.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the creation of a capital markets union. the low level of economic growth in the eu is not creating new jobs, and i see the creation of a single capital market as a necessary step towards improving the situation. the purpose of the creation of a capital markets union is to achieve the optimal exploitation of capital markets for the benefit of the economy, growth and jobs. the single capital market is also crucial for the financial and development recovery of smes, as it allows better access to finance. the cross-border flow of capital plays a major role in this. the capital markets union will be of great help to smes in this respect.
in writing. ‒ the aim of the capital markets union is to remove the barriers that prevent crossborder investment in the union and prevent companies from accessing finance. the business environment is now unfavourable to companies, which are still heavily dependent on banks and relatively less so on capital markets. the rest of the world is the opposite. the commission also wants to remove the obstacles to attracting investors for those who need financing and to make the provision of funds in the investment chain as efficient as possible, and i therefore supported the resolution.
in writing. ‒ jobs and growth in europe are today’s top priority. i voted in favour of this report because a true capital markets union is of the utmost importance in ensuring that long-term investment is secured and strengthened. european business relies heavily on banks for funding and much less so on the capital markets, which can serve the purpose of providing complementary investment sources. the goal is to remove barriers between investors’ money and investment opportunities, which means overcoming the obstacles that prevent businesses from reaching investors. one of the main priorities, for example, is to ensure that smes can gain access to funding as easily as large companies do. a capital markets union for all 28 member states should nevertheless be founded on financial stability and on an adequate level of consumer and investor protection.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the european agenda on security. recently, we have witnessed many crises and conflicts, even in our own neighborhood. we all want security and peace. the eu is a global actor, with a global mandate to protect and promote human rights, democracy and the rule of law. we must also pay particular attention to cybercrime, made possible by the evolving internet and computers. i therefore join the call in the resolution for the commission to provide law enforcement authorities with the legal capacity and technical capacity to effectively combat such crime, in full respect of fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ the eu and its member states face major security challenges. terrorism and organised and cybercrime are increasingly threatening societies across europe, and the nature and scale of these threats have also changed. political instability is spilling over into europe's immediate neighbourhood, threatening the eu's security interests. the new european agenda for security fulfils the commitment of the political guidelines of european commission president jean-claude juncker and replaces the previous strategy adopted in 2010. with the new european agenda on security, the commission is setting out a strategy for the union's response to security threats in the eu for the period 2015-2020. the agenda aims to create added value for eu support for the exchange of information between law enforcement authorities and eu agencies and for better operational police cooperation. as the epp group's proposals were not accepted, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which endorses the commission proposal for a new european agenda on security, which aims to support better organisational cooperation between member states in the fields of the fight against terrorism, cybersecurity and organised crime in the timeframe 2015-2020. the above-mentioned threats are particularly worrying for european citizens and their transnational nature requires eu-level intervention. an important but maybe overlooked aspect of this resolution is its strong call for very binding human rights clauses in cooperation agreements with third countries, especially in north africa and the gulf region, with regard to security cooperation. i find this an absolute priority and one of the leading principles in all types of cooperation arrangements between the eu and other countries.
in writing. ‒ in this report, parliament calls on the eu and its member states to address the root causes of the rapid deterioration of the situation throughout the middle east and north africa region. parliament stressed that stability and security in the region were essential for eu security. parliament reiterated that freedom of thought, conscience and religion is a fundamental human right and that all forms of discrimination against religious minorities must be combated effectively. the eu is actively involved in the international action against isis/daesh, supports cooperation within the framework of a common strategy, and stresses the importance of working with the region in the context of investment, the fight against corruption, direct dialogue with civil society, and so on, which is why i supported this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it acknowledges the worrying challenges that the middle east and north africa are currently facing. the report expresses concern over the deteriorating humanitarian situation in libya, syria, iraq, egypt and yemen, and warns against the threats of an expansion of terrorist activity by isis. the report finds that political instability in these regions mainly derives from a lack of democracy, and that the eu must actively offer support in ensuring that democratisation processes continue to develop. the eu must also work in close cooperation and dialogue with mena countries in order to promote the highest standards of human rights. cooperation should be also further deepened to foster economic development, considering that a lack thereof is one of the other main factors that contribute to instability.
in writing. ‒ the european neighbourhood policy, has been by far one of the most successful european policies to date. since the coal and steel community in the early days, this policy has been uniting the european continent into a single community with common values and diverse identities, by spreading the values and protecting the identities. it was this policy which made united europe a reality after the fall of communism. the enp should become tailor made, with conditionality regarding the appliance of fundamental values and concrete progress, and on the other hand the enp should be financially strong enough to influence the course of our neighbourhood. a renewed enp should avoid everlasting blockades from member states and we should particularly engage with our neighbours in projects which have a direct effect on the lives of their citizens, such as infrastructure, market access and free movement of people, by strongly supporting mobility within the neighbourhood.
in writing. ‒ the main purpose of this report is to inform the european parliament of the ongoing review of the functioning of the european neighbourhood policy launched by the european commission. it calls for the renewal of a more strategic, focused, flexible and coherent policy-oriented neighbourhood policy, capable of responding appropriately and swiftly to the needs of neighbouring countries. i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is a satisfactory reflection on the eu’s policy towards its immediate neighbourhood. the document seeks to assess the enp and evaluate what has worked and what needs to be improved. it also addresses important changes that are taking place in the neighbourhood and sets out policy goals for the coming years. i do find myself in disagreement on a few points, especially on the eu’s stance towards ukraine. more generally, i strongly believe that our eastern partners should freely choose their foreign policy orientation and that their potential future entry in the eu should be based on their free choice. i endorse the report’s view that the eu must be more active in working towards the solution of ‘frozen conflicts’ and show stronger engagement in dealing with the difficult challenges in the mediterranean.
in writing. ‒ i supported a non-legislative resolution assessing the implementation of key aspects of copyright in the ec. european copyright rules must strike a fair balance between the rights and interests of creators and consumers. i am committed to improving cross-border access to content and services, while respecting land-based licences, especially for audiovisual and film production. authors and creators need to improve the basis for fair remuneration for the digital distribution and exploitation of their works, while improving their position vis-à-vis other rightholders. as regards images of public buildings and works of art, the european legislation in force leaves the member states free to regulate them.
in writing. ‒ the julie red report on copyright and related rights in the information society aims to improve the european copyright legal framework and bring it into line with digital progress and the environment. at the same time, the report aims to maintain a fair balance between rightholders on the one hand and users on the other. the report is the first so-called milestone by the european parliament to require mandatory minimum standards for user rights in the area of copyright in the digital environment. the report also calls for the reduction of so-called territorial blocking measures, in particular to allow cultural minorities to access online content in their own language. the report also calls on libraries and academics to take exceptional measures, particularly in the area of electronic publications, such as electronic borrowing of material for a limited period of time. i also believe that panoramic views of buildings and monuments should be available to everyone and i am glad that the proposed amendment was not supported by parliament. as mrs red's report is well structured and represents a major step forward in the area of copyright in the digital environment, i supported the report and voted for its adoption in the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the directive is to harmonise certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society. the commission intends to modernise the copyright framework and will therefore, as planned, propose a revision of the directive in the autumn. the copyright reform is expected to contribute to further technological development, cultural exchange and improve legal certainty in the creative sector. it is important to ensure a high level of intellectual property security, thereby encouraging investment in innovation, protecting jobs and contributing to the creation of new ones. the european people's party supports a balance between user access and fair payment for creators, taking into account smes, and i therefore supported this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, first and foremost because it calls for the necessity to provide authors and performers with legal protection for their creative and artistic work. the document also recognises the important role of producers and publishers in bringing works to the market, thus calling for the need to ensure that all categories of right-holders receive appropriate remuneration. the second crucial aspect of the report concerns, on the other hand, any work in the public domain which is not subject to any copyright protection and must therefore be able to be used without any contractual barrier. this concept applies, for example, in the case of photographs, video footage or other images of works which are permanently located in public places, whose free use must be guaranteed by the eu legislator.
in writing. ‒ the report highlights the role of the european foundation for democracy in the efforts to democratise and sustain democracy in transition countries and societies struggling for democracy. this institution assists actors in the struggle such as political parties, ngos, trade unions and other partners, seeks cooperation with other civil groups linked to religious communities and so on. since april 2015, the foundation has funded 158 initiatives, with over eur 4,5 million in the southern neighbourhood and eur 4,4 million in the eastern neighbourhood. the report stresses the importance of long-term and stable funding and calls on the founding members, in particular the member states and the european commission, to strengthen their contributions to the european endowment for democracy. since the facility was doing well, i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ we cannot ignore the fact that 20 years ago, one of the greatest crimes against humanity since the second world war took place on european soil. it is necessary to pay tribute to the victims who lost their lives, and at the same time to remember the people who, although they survived this horror, lost loved ones in this event. i strongly condemn the genocide that took place in srebrenica and took the lives of many innocent people. at the same time, he left deep wounds and hatred in the country that citizens still face today. it is necessary to condemn those responsible who have in any way aided the perpetration of genocide and the mass murder of innocent people, and thus to allow the victims and their relatives to put an end to their suffering. i don't want to see the hatred escalate, but i think it's essential and our focus should be on erasing nationalism. there is a need to actively and vigorously support intercultural and interethnic cooperation and education with a view to reducing ethnic segregation. civil society organisations and associations are very important in this regard, playing a key role in raising awareness, educating and building unity and cooperation among all bih citizens. i myself supported the resolution and voted for its adoption in the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which commemorates the 20th anniversary of the srebrenica genocide, in which over 8 000 muslim men and boys were slaughtered by serbian armed forces led by general ratko mladić, and almost 30 000 women, children and elderly people were forcibly expelled in a massive-scale ethnic cleansing campaign. this tragic event represented one of the biggest atrocities committed after world war ii, and it is important that 20 years later it is remembered in order to prevent such brutality from ever happening again. it is positive that the resolution stresses that the punishment of all crimes against humanity must be one of the eu’s top priorities.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. first of all, of course, a heartfelt congratulations to the rapporteurs and a thank you to our colleagues who have shown a great deal of efficiency in accepting compromises on a matter that is of course very challenging, but also of course very important. the ban on the sale of seal products is of course also very important for our group, since its primary and fundamental purpose from the very beginning is also the protection of animals, for which we are actively involved. of course, this regulation was also necessary because of the requirements of the world trade organisation. what appeared to be a problem in the context of coordination itself was that some groups showed a great deal of interest in having as many exceptions as possible in this regulation, which would make it more flexible and, of course, not achieve the objective we had been pursuing throughout the negotiations. i am glad that these attempts have been somewhat unsuccessful and that we have already rejected these attempts in the imco committee itself, which was also supported in the negotiations with the council. i personally think that the most problematic aspect of the existing regulation was the so-called mrm exception, and we have therefore tried to get it deleted, and we have succeeded. above all, it will be important to make this regulation a reality. the commission will of course have an important role to play here, and will also have to evaluate these rules and, above all, whether or not infringements are still being committed despite this regulation, and if so, of course, to take appropriate action. (the speaker agreed to accept the question raised by the blue card (rule 162 (8)).
answer to the question posed by raising the blue card. i think that this regulation has achieved the greatest possible compromise, that this regulation also respects tradition. and i'm thinking here primarily of the traditional hunting of both the inuit and the eskimos and the groups, of course, who subsist on the traditional way of hunting whales. and what we've heard today is that products can also be for the survival needs of inuit and eskimos in the open market. however, it is clear that too loose a definition could provide for such exceptions and abuses, which could, of course, ultimately also be very harmful to seals.
reports assessing the situation of fundamental rights protection in the european union and the member states can have a positive impact on improving justice systems in the countries, and i naturally support such reports, as well as the debate. i come from slovenia, which has unfortunately become the european champion in human rights violations. in august, the european court of human rights published statistics that found an average of 148 violations per million inhabitants. by comparison, in germany there are only two breaches per million inhabitants. of the hundreds of cases in slovenia, the most high-profile case is the case of janez janša's violation of fundamental human rights, who was persecuted by the slovenian unreformed judicial system on the basis of a completely absurd charge for as many as seven years. the aim was to remove from the political field the leader of the opposition, who had twice been successful prime minister and even president of the european council. last year, just three weeks before the parliamentary elections, he was even arrested without any evidence. six months later, of course, the constitutional court found janša innocent and overturned all previous convictions. can you imagine such a case happening in the heart of europe? in order to avoid repetition, i call on the european commission to prepare as soon as possible the promised six-pack of measures in the field of justice, which will allow for external, systematic monitoring of the functioning of the judiciary in the member states. in a regulated environment, this may seem an unreasonable requirement. for post-communist countries or countries in transition, this is the only way to achieve the rule of law and respect for human rights and freedoms.
i would like to point out that fundamental human rights are also being violated in some courts in the member states. the european court of human rights last month released alarming data showing that slovenia, where i come from, has become the top country in europe for human rights violations per capita. in 2010, slovenia was convicted of human rights violations three times, and last year 29 times. it's been convicted in 94% of all cases, putting us in the same category as russia. in slovenia, a survey carried out last year by a former constitutional judge found that between 2004 and 2014, 442 slovenian courts and at least 1200 judges had violated human rights and fundamental freedoms. all these shocking figures remind us that slovenia still has a lot of work to do in the field of human rights and fundamental freedoms. and we have to deal with the problems right away.
all those i would like to mention are in europe: the so-called golden dawn in greece, jobbik in hungary, the npd and pegida in germany, the national front in france, the fpö in austria, the boots boys in norway, the venetian skinhead front in italy, and the neo-ustahs and neo-chetnis in croatia and serbia. each of them, with rare exceptions, does not yet pose a serious threat to the constitutional order, to our common european values. but when we add up their objectives and look at their programmes, we cannot help but realise that in the shadow and under the cover of the economic and refugee crises, a dangerous force of intolerance, division and aggression is growing. so i think it's important that i talk about the importance of right-wing extremism and the danger it poses today, if only for a minute.
since i became a member of the european parliament, this question has been very troubling to me. first of all, i have found that we have a very incomplete system for appointing commissioners, and i have suggested several times in this house that we should do everything possible to ensure that the president of the commission, who is elected here in parliament, has every opportunity to select the most competent and gender-balanced team possible. the current approach, if i may focus on nomination only, on recruiting commissioners from member states, is not good. i agree with you, mr rapporteur, that it would be right for the member states to propose at least two candidates, one male and one female. ideally, they should also propose different types of professional profiles for candidates, so that the president of the european commission can have the maximum choice later on and form a team of commissioners that is as competent and balanced as possible.
first of all, i would like to congratulate mrs sommer and mrs moi on the report they have produced, and i shall be happy to support it in the vote. in cloning, as we've heard, the first concern is the welfare of the animals. we know from the data that the mortality rate for these methods is very high, that the success rate of this method is only five to fifteen percent, and because there is no real progress, it is right to limit and to fence ourselves off from this method. another very important aspect is the ethical one: the question of what kind of europe we want to live in. can we keep doing this on animals? is it then the turn of human cloning to be a successful method in animals? this is a very big question, and if anyone wants to do successful animal cloning, i don't know who wants to do successful human cloning, and that's as a public method. the next question that was very clear, to which we have received a very clear answer, is that of consumers, of europeans who reject the cloning method on the one hand, and on the other hand, the use of products, products, that is to say, meat from cloning, and demand clear labelling of these products. here i think that what we are going to adopt today is also a very clear signal to the negotiators in adopting the transatlantic trade and investment agreement. and if we have given the responsibility for genetically modified organisms to the states and the states can define themselves, it is right that we give a unified signal from europe in the field of cloning.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. i think that it is very important to strengthen and coordinate cooperation and mutual assistance between the administrative authorities of the member states, especially in order to fight fraud better and more effectively. that regulation brings improvements as it aims to simplify and speed up the processes for the screening of goods used by consumers in the european union. at the same time, it strives to reduce or eliminate unnecessary bureaucracy, which often creates obstacles and difficulties at customs. until now, customs officials have had difficulty in determining whether the origin declaration corresponds to the actual path of the containers. despite the documentary checks and also the visual inspection of the goods, the checks were of a limited nature. the many cases of false declarations and also poor, limited controls have cost the european union and its member states quite a few financial consequences due to financial losses, which of course also have a significant impact on budgets. i am convinced that the inclusion of 'export data' in the regulation is a very important provision, as it will help member states to fight fraud. olaf has found clear and incontrovertible information that a large number of exported products, such as tobacco, have been transhipped to third countries and back, back to the eu. which allowed tax evasion. and as a member of the green group, i advocated the inclusion of 'export data' in the regulation, as this reduces the possibility of fraud. in such cases, transparency is of course necessary and, above all, transparency is guaranteed, which is what we wanted to achieve with the regulation. for this reason, i think that it is also necessary to support this regulation, because we have managed to reach a compromise that is more satisfactory to all parties. i am referring in particular to the inclusion of 'export data for sensitive goods' such as tobacco, alcohol and minerals in so-called directories, which will be more easily controlled and accessible to the competent authorities by the introduction of this regulation.
the crime often takes place in the very areas we are talking about today, that is to say, on the one hand, the tobacco sector, on the other, the oil and alcohol sector. i therefore support the strengthening of the institutions at european community level, as well as the provision of the means to strengthen this control and to reduce this crime in the future. often, not only criminal groups but also people very close to politics are linked in such links, and in many countries, including transition countries, the development of democracy itself and the implementation of the principles of modern parliamentary democracy are therefore facing major problems. i therefore think it is right to support measures to combat this very unfair business, which is based mainly on the exploitation of other people and on criminal syndicates.
in writing. ‒ forced labour is a violation of human rights and an attack on the dignity of exploited people. despite the progress made in this area, 21 million people are still victims of forced labor in the 21st century, generating some $150 billion in annual revenues. in addition to the traditional forms of exploitation (material or physical coercion), new forms have emerged that are much more subtle and insidious and are based on the hope of improving living conditions. the 2014 ilo protocol to the 1930 forced or compulsory labour convention aims to use legal means to destroy and eradicate all forms of forced labour. new measures are urgently needed to prevent, protect, establish complaint mechanisms and legal remedies such as compensation and other compensation. the protocol is a binding document that includes provisions on education and information for individuals, efforts to extend the scope and implementation of legislation relating to the prevention of forced labour to all workers and all sectors of the economy, protection of the most vulnerable, support for due diligence to be demonstrated by the public and private sectors, and addressing the root causes that increase the risk of forced labour. since i consider that the measures described are essential to combat forced labour, i have supported this recommendation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of giving consent to the council decision authorising member states to ratify the protocol of 2014 to the ilo forced labour convention of 1930 with regard to matters related to social policy. the 1930 ilo forced labour convention is one of the ilo’s eight fundamental conventions that make up the core international labour standards, and it is considered a human rights instrument. in adopting the convention, the international labour conference called upon states to end the use of forced labour within the shortest possible period, and to criminalise the offence. now, the 2014 protocol that the council will ask member states to ratify seeks to address gaps in implementation and to make progress on preventing trafficking for labour exploitation and protecting and compensating victims of forced labour. i find this of great importance as it is in line with the eu commitment to promoting human rights and decent work and to eradicating trafficking in human beings.
in writing. ‒ on the basis of all the documents of the committee on legal affairs, i have supported the report on the request for waiver of immunity of janusz korwin-mikke.
in writing. ‒ i support the proposed recommendation for second reading on amending the legislation on mutual assistance between member states to ensure better implementation of customs and agricultural legislation. the amended legislative proposal, in my view, concretely improves the control of the two most vulnerable areas of smuggling, namely tobacco and alcohol. i support the strengthening of the institutions at eu level, which must be provided with sufficient resources to effectively enable stronger controls, thereby starting to reduce the number of such crimes. such acts are often carried out not only by criminal organisations but also by individuals with close political ties, which, especially in transition countries, poses a serious threat to the development of democracy. i am therefore convinced that we must support measures to strengthen the fight against such crimes, which are based primarily on the exploitation of other people and on criminal syndicalism, as they destroy many families as well as having a major impact on wider communities.
in writing. ‒ i believe that it is very important to strengthen and coordinate cooperation and mutual assistance between the administrative authorities of the member states, especially in order to fight fraud better and more effectively. that regulation brings improvements as it aims to simplify and speed up the processes for the screening of goods. at the same time, it strives to reduce or eliminate unnecessary bureaucracy, which often creates obstacles and difficulties at customs. until now, customs officials have had difficulty in determining whether the origin declaration corresponds to the actual path of the containers. despite the documentary checks and also the visual inspection of the goods, the checks were of a limited nature. the eu and its member states have suffered financial losses from numerous cases of false declarations and also from limited controls. i am convinced that the inclusion of 'export data' in the regulation is important, as it will help member states to fight fraud. olaf has found clear and irrefutable information that a large number of exported products, such as tobacco, were being transhipped to third countries and then back to the eu, allowing tax evasion. i think the regulation is a good one and i am sure that it will have a positive impact on reducing the bureaucratic burden on customs officials and improving the control of the goods we export, which is why i voted in favour of its adoption and supported it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on ensuring the correct implementation of customs and agricultural legislation. the european union is witnessing a number of irregularities in its agricultural policy. there are few countries that follow the rules, so we must demand that all countries follow the rules. at the same time, we must all work together to promote a competitive economy and a free market, and we must pursue counterfeiters and smugglers of counterfeit goods with a firm hand. olaf has to add his. it's the only way we're gonna make progress.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the second reading handbook on mutual assistance between the administrative authorities of the member states and on cooperation between them and the commission to ensure the correct application of customs and agricultural legislation, as i support stronger controls against criminal organisations and the exploitation of human beings.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which gives approval to the council to amend regulation (ec) no 515/97 of 13 march 1997. the regulation lays down the ways in which the administrative authorities responsible for implementation of the legislation on customs and agricultural matters in the member states are to cooperate with each other and with the commission in order to ensure compliance with that legislation within the framework of a community system. to this end, the regulation states that each member state shall communicate to the other member states and the commission a list of the competent authorities it has appointed for the purposes of applying the regulation itself.
in writing. ‒ the regulation banning the sale of seal products is very important to the greens/efa group, as its primary and fundamental purpose from the outset has been the protection of animals, which we actively promote. due to the two main exceptions in the regulation, referred to in short as the ic and mrm exemptions, canada and norway challenged the sea regulation and its implementing act in the world trade organisation. the general ban on the sale of seal products, which was justified by moral concerns for animal welfare, was supported, but the exceptions were rejected. i believe that the mrm exception was the most problematic in the existing regulation, and i have therefore advocated its deletion. during the negotiations, we successfully agreed to delete from the definitions certain other words which could potentially weaken the regulation and thereby undermine it. i think the amendments to the regulation are good and balanced. it should now be in line with the wto and its requirements. we have all worked very hard to find a compromise that is acceptable to all parties in the shortest possible time, and i think we have succeeded. i am satisfied with the final outcome and the amended regulation, as is the greens/efa group, and i have therefore supported the regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report on the trade in seal products. on the one hand, we have many organisations that have been calling for a ban on the import of seal products for many years in order to protect seals, and on the other hand we have to respect the national traditions of the indigenous people for whom seal hunting is a means of survival. i think that the report on trade in seal products has been brought into balance by the provision of an exemption for imports of products obtained from the fisheries of these communities. but the key is to control the abuse.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the legislative proposal on trade in seal products, which i supported, is to implement the wto recommendations and conclusions presented in july 2014, in line with the 2009 basic regulation on trade in seal products. the regulation banning trade in seal products in the european union was considered a sensitive issue, which was voted to be removed despite the opposition of the baltic and nordic countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of strengthening the ban on eu trade in seal products, which will result, among other things, in fewer seals being hunted for trading purposes. a significant change is that the ban will also be extended to products resulting from hunts aimed at protecting fishing stocks. understandably, the only exemption from this ban will continue to be granted to inuit and other indigenous communities, which rely on seal products for their living, although the sale of seal products in the eu will only be permitted if their hunting methods 1) are compatible with animal welfare principles 2) are a part of their tradition and 3) contribute to the subsistence of their communities.
in writing. ‒ i was happy to support the proposed report, as i consider that the cloning of animals for agricultural purposes is controversial both for moral and ethical reasons and from the point of view of animal health and ensuring product safety. in addition, european consumers are also opposed to cloning. the european consumer knows very well what food he wants to have on his plate; he wants to know its origin and quality. but he certainly does not want food produced from cloned animals or their descendants, and this report fully takes that into account. i wonder what kind of europe we want to live in. if we're talking about animal cloning today, are we going to be talking about human cloning tomorrow? this is a very important question! what we have agreed today is also a very clear signal to the negotiators in adopting the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip). and if we have given the responsibility for genetically modified organisms to the countries to define themselves, we must give a unified signal from europe for cloning. today's debate has confirmed the european position against the cloning of animals for agricultural purposes. and this position follows that adopted by the european parliament in its recent amendment of the directive on the restriction or prohibition of the cultivation of genetically modified organisms. the eu negotiators must therefore also actively and substantially take this position into account in the negotiations on the ttip.
in writing. ‒ i support the report on the ban on the cloning of all types of animals bred for agricultural purposes. i am opposed to the cloning of animals for agricultural purposes mainly from an ethical point of view, for animal welfare reasons and because of the clear opposition of citizens to the cloning of animals for food purposes. i also support greater traceability of the origin of live animals, germinal material and food imported into the ec from third countries, as consumers have a right to be well informed about the food they see on the shelves.
in writing. ‒ there is no legislation in the eu that regulates only cloning, and no eu member states apply cloning for agricultural purposes. scientific studies have shown that cloning poses a risk to animal welfare, and the european public also considers that cloning animals is not beneficial, not safe, unfair and worrisome. the report cites the legitimate concerns of citizens and the ep, reminding the commission that it did not include in its proposals provisions on food from the offspring of cloned animals and measures relating to the reproductive material of cloned animals and their offspring. i share the view that the commission proposal should be strengthened by adopting a more holistic approach to all aspects of animal cloning for agricultural purposes an effective and consistent regulation should be developed which takes account of the legitimate concerns of the agricultural sector and of european citizens. in general, i believe that the negative effects of cloning far outweigh any possible positive effects, and i am therefore a strong advocate of banning cloning, banning the placing on the market of live animal clones, their germinal material and their progeny, and banning the marketing of food derived from animal clones, which is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the cloning of bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine animals reared and reproduced for agricultural purposes. i am opposed to the cloning of animals for agricultural purposes because it is controversial from several points of view: ethical, human health and animal welfare. we must go one step further and achieve a complete ban on cloning and the importation of cloned products. the adoption of the report is further proof that we want the european union to continue to have the highest food standards in the world.
in writing. ‒ the draft legislative resolution on the cloning of animals of the bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine species, their feeding and reproduction for agricultural purposes, requires that the import of cloned animals as well as of seeds and products derived from animal clones be prohibited. imports must be accompanied by a certificate stating that the product is not a clone or a descendant of a clone animal. because, like the vast majority of europeans, i do not support cloning animals as a food production technique for moral and ethical reasons and for the welfare of animals, i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ in this controversial vote i expressed myself in favour of extending the ban on animal cloning to include their descendants, the products that derive from them, and any import into the eu in general. unfortunately i could not follow my group’s line, which rejected the extension of the ban to clone-derived descendants and products. scientific progress has not advanced much in this field and cloning techniques are not yet mature: many animals subject to cloning experiments die painfully after a week, and this should not be allowed to happen. at the same time, human beings’ health is also at stake, because the effects and consequences of meat and products derived from cloned animals are still not well known.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mrs sommer and mr moi on the cloning of animals bred and reproduced for agricultural purposes. animal cloning is controversial for several reasons. first, there are moral considerations, since animal cloning may be followed by human cloning. then there's animal suffering, high clone mortality rates at all stages of development, congenital anomalies, and unusually large offspring that cause difficult births and infant deaths. finally, the mass breeding of clones could harm the diversity of the animal world in the long run. some 80% of eu citizens oppose cloning for agricultural purposes, and so does my political group, the epp. unfortunately, we do not yet have the appropriate rules in this area and third countries can import meat and milk from cloned animals into our territory. the european commission's proposal is a good one, because it prohibits the cloning of animals for agricultural purposes, as well as the breeding and sale of their offspring, germ and products such as meat and milk. it would not make sense, however, to ban cloning in the eu while encouraging it in third countries by importing these animals or their products. i therefore supported the envi committee's position that all animals, germinal material and food imported into the eu must be certified as not coming from cloned animals.
in writing. ‒ i am big supporter of european mechanisms for monitoring and influencing the respect for fundamental rights in member states, together with the strengthening of the effective protection of children's rights, the rights of persons with disabilities, roma and the rights of migrants among others. i agree that there should be full use of the existing mechanisms, with objective evaluations and investigations being launched and infringement proceedings being taken out if cases are well-grounded. other areas, such as corruption should not be neglected and there is a clear opportunity for the eu to deploy effective mechanisms for preventing, combating and sanctioning corruption. i regret that certain political groups are wrongly using the report to promote measures which are not encouraging an effective fight against terrorism. therefore i have supported the alternative motion for resolution, tabled by the epp.
in writing. ‒ there are still many violations of fundamental human rights in the eu and in the member states, as shown by the judgments of the european court of human rights and as highlighted in reports by the commission, the eu agency for fundamental rights, ngos, the council of europe and the un. respect for and promotion of human rights, fundamental freedoms, democracy and the values and principles enshrined in the eu treaties and international human rights instruments must be a duty for the union and the member states and therefore at the heart of european integration. i believe that an institutional and legal framework should be established for cases where a member state infringes the fundamental rights or principles of the union in areas not covered by eu secondary law. i also advocate stronger and more precise formulation of fundamental rights issues in different sectors (non-discrimination, minority rights, lgbti, migration and asylum, transparency, economic and social rights, fight against terrorism...). the report includes good structural suggestions. on the one hand, it touches on the institutional framework (reflected in the commission's communication on a new eu framework to strengthen the rule of law) and, on the other hand, it addresses fundamental rights issues in different sectors (freedom and security, equality and non-discrimination, migration, economic crisis...), which is why i supported the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the eu (20132014).
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union. the report is not as good as it could be. we can promote fundamental rights in the world, but we cannot impose economic, cultural and social rights. but i would like to emphasize the situation in slovenia, which is not satisfactory. last month, the european court of human rights released alarming figures showing that slovenia, with 148 human rights violations per million inhabitants, is europe's top country in terms of human rights violations per capita. in 2010, slovenia was convicted of human rights violations three times, and last year 29 times. it's been convicted in 94 percent of all cases, putting us in the same category as russia. last year, a study by former constitutional judge dr lovro šturm was conducted in slovenia, which found that between 2004 and 2014, 442 slovenian courts and at least 1200 judges had violated human rights and fundamental freedoms. all these shocking figures remind us that slovenia still has a lot of work to do in the field of human rights and fundamental freedoms, and we must deal with the problems immediately!
in writing. ‒ the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union (20132014) proposes the development of a genuine internal strategy on fundamental rights in the european union, based on the implementation of article 2 of the eu treaty and involving all the bodies of the european union that are active in the field of respect for fundamental rights. as the report does not reach my understanding of the area of fundamental rights in the eu and as it touches on areas in certain parts that do not fall within this report, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this ambitious report on the situation of fundamental rights in the eu in 2013-2014. the report points out its great concern about the repeated violation of the human rights of migrants and asylum seekers in some member states. another blow to the human rights of eu citizens has unfortunately come from the negative effects of the economic crisis. the situation in each and every member state must nonetheless be continuously monitored and it should be done so through common criteria. the text is an important reminder of the constant need of ensuring that the values on which the eu is founded are respected, because member states must be constantly aware of the solemn commitment they make upon joining the eu.
in writing. ‒ public presentations of candidates for commissioners were first used in 1994 and have now become an established practice, increasing the democratic legitimacy of the eu institutions and bringing them closer to european citizens. the presentations are an opportunity for the ep and eu citizens to get to know and assess the personality, qualifications, readiness and knowledge of the job they are applying for. the final report is made up of good proposals that strengthen the whole process of presenting candidates for commissioners. as such, i can mention the proposal to set a deadline by which all member states should propose their candidates so that the newly elected president of the commission has sufficient time to allocate them to areas of work and so that parliament can prepare presentations and assessments. the report also includes a proposal that each member state should propose at least two candidates equally male and female. i also think that one of the most important proposals is to improve the scrutiny of declarations of financial interests of candidate commissioners by the committee on legal affairs, according to which the absence of a conflict of interest would be an important condition for the performance of the presentation itself. because of the suggestions mentioned in the report and because of the importance of the public presentation of the commissioners-designate to the ep and eu citizens, i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the presentation of commissioners: lessons learnt from the 2014 procedures. i welcome the european parliament's strong say in the election of the president of the commission and the european commissioners. in the european parliament, the only institution directly elected by eu citizens, we vote for the president of the commission as well as for the commission as a whole. in addition, candidate commissioners are also interviewed and subjected to public pressure, which leads to a really high-quality selection of commissioners. in slovenia, too, candidates for ministers must pass a hearing before the parent committee, which is not a mere formality but ensures a better quality of selection.
in writing. ‒ the report on the commissioners' hearings proposes to improve certain procedures for public hearings of candidate members of the european commission, thus giving parliament and the public the opportunity to discover each commissioner's priorities and assess their competence. in doing so, it contributes further to transparency, while at the same time putting the european parliament back at the forefront of transparency and setting an example for national institutions. it is important that we discuss and learn from the procedures for appointing commissioners. i supported the report, particularly in view of the case of self-appointment and candidacy of the former prime minister of the republic of slovenia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which is an evaluation of the hearings that are held in the european parliament before appointing members of the commission. i agree on the fact that this process in useful and gives a chance, although indirectly, to eu citizens to assess the quality of each candidate and their professional suitability for the role. the resolution also puts forward a number of proposals concerning the approval/rejection procedure of the candidate on behalf of the committee coordinators. an interesting suggestion that the text puts forward is that of having a specific section of parliament’s website where the cvs of the commissioners-designate and responses to written questions are made available, in advance of the public hearings. the 2014 hearings generated more interest than in previous years and this would be an even better way to make citizens part of the decision-making process.
in writing. ‒ i support the fact that digital freedoms, net neutrality, uncensored and unrestricted access to internet, privacy rights and data protection is guaranteed through specific clauses in all agreements with third countries.
in writing. ‒ technological developments and access to the open internet are playing an increasingly important role. information and communication technologies can be a driver of progress or an incentive to violate human rights, and their impact depends to a large extent on the circumstances in which they are created or used. technological systems can be abused as a tool for human rights violations through censorship, surveillance, unauthorised access to devices, signal jamming, interception and the tracking and tracing of information and individuals. i think it is a good report, as it highlights the negative impact that the itc can have on human rights and includes strong and practical suggestions. it highlights important areas of ict such as mass surveillance, promotes democratic oversight of security and intelligence services, stresses the importance of protecting whistleblowers, calls for the use of open source software and opposes the criminalisation of the use of encryption tools. since digital security and freedom are essential and cannot replace each other, it is essential that digital freedoms, network neutrality, uncensored and unrestricted access to the internet, the right to privacy and data protection are promoted, guaranteed and respected. human rights and fundamental freedoms are universal and must be protected worldwide in all aspects of their exercise, which is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on human rights and technology in third countries. i believe that when it comes to aid to third countries, we should not offer aid to countries that violate human rights and to those that exploit information technology. because that undermines democracy. we must prevent the misuse of information technology and prevent companies from reselling it to third countries.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the reports on human rights and technology in third countries because of the problematic parts of the resolution that i cannot support at all.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report drafted by the alde colleague marietje schaake. the report tackles the sensitive issue of modern technologies for purposes that may violate individual citizens’ rights, such as personal data hacking and mass surveillance. while technology has greatly improved the lives of millions of people, in contexts where democracy is weak or in authoritarian regimes it may lead to intrusive practices comparable to human rights abuses. the report underlines the responsibility of the eu not to sell such types of technologies to governments or companies that may use them for such distorted purposes. in short, the text calls for more transparency, more accountability and more licensing of what may be potentially dangerous technologies in the hands of oppressive regimes.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the report which stresses the need to strike a balance between the administrative burden and effective financial control of farms. the many changes to the new cap have led to a need to simplify and reduce the bureaucracy faced by farmers. less bureaucratic policy, which can be clearly implemented and interpreted, is also important for attracting people to the agricultural sector and for preserving farmers and their knowledge and skills, which will help ensure a successful agricultural sector in the future.
in writing. ‒ in the past two cap reforms, the rules have become much more complex and, in practice, more error-prone on the ground. the 2013 reform has changed the requirements for lodging applications and substantiating claims, increasing the risk of errors and already showing in practice higher costs for controls and advice, currently amounting to eur 4 billion at member state level. the european court of auditors has also found that the 2014-2020 cap expenditure regime remains complex because of the diversity of european agriculture. the report calls for a future cap with less bureaucracy to reduce the error rate and for the establishment of instruments that distinguish between errors and fraud. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of subsidiarity to all agricultural products, including the products of the production of cereals and the products of the processing of agricultural products. i am also a strong advocate of eliminating over-complicated procedures wherever this can help to reduce errors and make more efficient use of european funds. while simplifications of the cap are welcome because of its complexity, we must be careful that deregulation measures do not lead to setbacks in key areas such as improving social and environmental standards.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the protection of the european union's financial interests: a step closer to a results-based control of the common agricultural policy. when designing the cap, we need to reduce the excessive bureaucracy that stifles farmers. the rules need to be more transparent and clearer. in controlling the use of funds, we must be able to distinguish between error and fraud. the sheer volume and complexity of the documentation leads to a number of errors that, of course, cannot be considered fraudulent. an appropriate balance needs to be struck between a reduced administrative burden and effective financial controls.
in writing. ‒ the report on the protection of the eu's financial interests: towards a common agricultural policy based on performance-based controls stresses the need to strike the right balance between less bureaucracy and more effective financial controls. i supported the report because i believe that we do not need duplication of analytical data and the associated increased bureaucratic burden.
in writing. ‒ more than 60% of all enterprises in the european union are family businesses, representing about 40-50% of private sector jobs, and in slovenia the share of such enterprises is even higher than 60%. family businesses are more long-term-minded than companies not run by their owners, as they want to ensure that they continue to operate economically for generations to come. this should be a guarantee of stability, accountability, development and, most importantly, job creation and growth. unfortunately, in addition to the economic situation on the market, it is the transfer of ownership to the next generation that often causes a family business to go out of business, resulting in completely unnecessary job losses. therefore, measures to promote family businesses, both at eu and member state level, are crucial to ensuring that these businesses continue to drive the european economy and do not lose jobs as a result of strict regulation. flexible labour and succession legislation and incentives to improve the business environment are essential. as a co-owner of a family business, we produce apples, and i am all the more aware of the importance of this type of entrepreneurship and the responsibility that the owner and the rest of the family feel towards the employees and future generations. i was therefore happy to support the report.
in writing. ‒ the report states that family businesses play an important role in economic growth and social development, reducing unemployment and investing in human capital, as the multi-generational nature of family businesses is expected to strengthen the stability of the economy due to their key role in regional development in terms of employment, transfer of skills and experience and regional planning. i can agree with what has been written, but it is worth noting that there is no universal definition of a family business in europe. many of the questions raised in the report are not focused solely on so-called family businesses, but cover essentially any type of entrepreneurship, which i do not agree with. i believe that so-called family businesses deserve a closer look and i do not approve of the possible intention to revise the definition of 'small and medium-sized enterprises', which would also allow larger 'family businesses' to access eu programme funding. the report, however, paints an excessively idyllic picture of the attempt to define a 'family business', which would also require the controversial definition of a 'family' (stabilisation of the economy, high social responsibility towards employees and the environment, etc.). despite the shortcomings of the report, i do not want to leave untouched the problems of 'family businesses' (e.g. business transfers and forced sales), and therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report on family businesses in europe. family businesses are one of the drivers of economic growth and employment in slovenia and worldwide. in slovenia, they represent between 60 and 80 per cent of all enterprises. one of the biggest problems for family businesses remains the transition to the next generation. according to some estimates, only one third of family businesses successfully manage to pass on the business to the second generation, and even fewer manage to pass it on to the third generation. eu action, such as the exchange of experiences between countries and the support for research projects on the factors of successful transition, could improve the situation. of course, stable macroeconomic policies, a well-functioning legal environment for business and flexible labour legislation are crucial for the good functioning and development of family businesses.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on family businesses in europe. family businesses are very important to the economy in europe, representing more than 60% of all businesses and contributing to 50% of all private sector jobs. in slovenia, most family businesses are small to medium-sized and, like the rest, face more difficult access to finance. the passing of business to the next generation is also of great importance. the state must not impede these small enterprises, which have a particularly strong and long-term orientation due to family ties, by imposing additional bureaucratic burdens and high taxes. the european union is also aware of their importance. it has therefore already tried to develop a uniform definition that would define more precisely when an undertaking is considered to be a family-owned enterprise. this definition would entail various rights that are of crucial importance for the long-term success of the business.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposed report on exploiting the potential of research and innovation in the blue economy, as i believe that the potential of the world's seas and oceans is still largely untapped. although these areas offer us many opportunities for economic exploitation, from fishing, tourism, shipbuilding, ports, energy, etc., there is still a lot of potential, especially for more sustainable ways of using the resources that science and research can offer us. one such area is, for example, biotechnology. of course, such exploitation must take account of the fragility of marine ecosystems. the environmental, ecological and social functions of the seas and oceans therefore require a strong role for states in the sustainable management and conservation of resources, with the aim of ensuring that the public good prevails over the interests of individuals. resources should be used appropriately so that they are not used up too quickly. so we have to prevent the practice that we're used to from the mainland. the aforementioned marine and ocean-related biotechnology, for example, is a highly diversified sector with immense potential for the creation and application of new knowledge and the creation of new products and processes with high added value development of new materials, pharmaceuticals, etc. i therefore believe that the eu must be even more ambitious in its drive to promote an advanced blue economy.
in writing. ‒ i think it is of great importance to support the potential of the sea and coast economies with a coordinated approach from the eu, pooling resources where possible.
in writing. ‒ the concept of the blue economy covers a wide range of economic sectors linked to the seas and oceans, covering traditional or established and emerging sectors (fisheries, aquaculture, maritime and river shipping, ports and logistics, tourism, shipbuilding and ship repair, etc.). the protection and conservation of natural marine environments are fundamental to the conservation, support and development of the blue economy, and sustainable ecosystems are a prerequisite for the exploitation of the resources of the seas and oceans. there is a serious lack of data, information and knowledge in this area on the seas and oceans, their resources and biodiversity, and their links with human activities and their environmental and cumulative impacts. i believe that marine and ocean research needs to be promoted to enable the development of a blue economy and sustainable economic activity. the report contains some important points, such as an integrated approach to all sectors based on the principle of sustainability, an ecosystem approach and the precautionary principle, which i believe should be at the heart of all activities that affect the marine environment. i am also in favour of the key points in the report relating to energy, sustainable aquaculture and a prudent approach to deep-sea mining, which is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on harnessing the potential of research and innovation in the blue economy to create jobs and growth. in today's challenging times, research and innovation in the blue economy is an important factor in providing new and better jobs and higher economic growth. i welcome the report because it also touches on the potential of exploiting marine resources for the development of sustainable renewable energy sources, which can make a major contribution to europe's energy security strategy. this would reduce the member states' dependence on energy sources that do not come from the eu.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on research and innovation in the blue economy for jobs and growth. the concept of the blue economy covers a wide range of economic sectors related to the seas and oceans, ranging from traditional to emerging sectors. including fisheries, aquaculture, maritime transport, inland waterway transport, ports and logistics, tourism, sailing, cruising, shipbuilding, maritime work for coastal protection, exploration and exploitation of mineral and energy resources at sea, and biotechnology. with the right foundations and timing, the sea and the coast can drive the economy forward in many of these aspects.
in writing. ‒ i was very pleased to support the report on promoting entrepreneurship among young people. i am convinced that, in addition to providing young people with the right career guidance and a labour market-friendly education system, entrepreneurship education is essential for the stability of the european economy. entrepreneurship education at all levels is a very effective tool to encourage young people to choose a business and career path and to have a successful career. today's europe urgently needs an approach that supports young people, for example their creativity, their ability to overcome risks and failures, and their responsibility. the high rate of youth unemployment in the eu, at 22% on average, is both a problem and a challenge to unlock the potential of young people who are forced to do so by the situation. i think that the current circumstances also have an impact on the huge growth of so-called start-ups and entrepreneurial initiatives. young people are proof that it is possible to adapt, and of course this must be followed by policies to create a favourable business environment. strengthening knowledge and innovation are key drivers of future growth, and this must be followed by quality and labour market-friendly education systems that encourage young people to become entrepreneurs. entrepreneurship is a talent, but like any talent, it needs to be nurtured and directed. member states should therefore strengthen entrepreneurial skills among young people through legislation and a quality apprenticeship and traineeship system.
in writing. ‒ in current times it is of key importance that at all levels and types of education the teaching of practical entrepreneurship skills should provide sense of initiative, readiness and sense of social responsibility. i support the fact that the commission has the broad opportunity to coordinate with member states a coherent and effective coordination in the area of entrepreneurship education in the context of its broader eu lifelong learning strategy, the eu’s global strategies and the juncker commission’s plan.
in writing. ‒ the social and economic situation of european citizens has not improved significantly recently, with youth unemployment in the eu averaging 22% and in some countries and regions exceeding 50%. in february this year, 4.85 million young people were unemployed in the eu, an unacceptably high figure. the high unemployment rate is putting young people in a situation of increasing poverty and social exclusion, and we need to ask ourselves, in addition to the much-needed labour market reforms, what can be done to improve their situation in the education and training sector. competencies such as innovation, self-initiative, risk-taking, independent thinking and identifying opportunities are certainly welcome for competitiveness in today's labour market and can help to boost young people's confidence in their integration into the economy and society. however, in finding solutions, we must be cautious and consider a number of factors. there is certainly a gap between education and labour market needs, and it is right that future education systems should be adapted to economic change. however, i would point out that too much of a one-sided focus on the importance of entrepreneurship can also have a negative impact in the long term, which is why i abstained from voting on this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on promoting youth entrepreneurship through education and training. in december last year, more than 5 million young people were unemployed in the european union. in some member states, even one in two young people is unemployed, which is a matter of great concern. youth entrepreneurship must be an important part of the political strategy to enable young people facing unemployment today to realise their ideas and start their own business. self-employment and other forms of encouraging youth entrepreneurship can make a significant contribution to reducing youth unemployment. i also support the inclusion of entrepreneurship in the curriculum.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on promoting youth entrepreneurship through education and training. at a time of high youth unemployment, promoting an entrepreneurial mindset has a major positive impact on citizens. especially for young people, both in their professional and personal lives. this report highlights the further development of entrepreneurship, skills and competences at all levels of education and training and gives guidance on how to achieve these objectives at both eu and national level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by ms šojdrava on promoting entrepreneurship among young people through education and training. developing entrepreneurial skills and mindsets during education gives young people greater opportunities for later employment. all of this is also important for their personal development. although we know that smes are the main source of new jobs in the eu, national education systems are not adapting quickly enough to changes in the labour market. youth unemployment decreased by around 500 000 between february 2014 and february 2015, but at the end of that period there were still more than 4,5 million unemployed young people in the eu. i therefore join the call in the report for practical entrepreneurial skills, risk-taking and planning skills to be taught at all levels of education, and for motivation, self-initiative and a sense of social responsibility to be encouraged. modules on the fundamentals of finance, economics and the business environment should be included in school curricula. member states should encourage entrepreneurial skills among young people, including by providing quality traineeships, as proposed in the council recommendation on a framework for the quality of traineeships. however, i would also like to emphasise the importance of the erasmus+ programme, as more people who have been on study exchanges abroad in the past are now choosing to start their own business.
in writing. ‒ i support the establishment of an ec single portal dedicated to cultural heritage, which would serve as a source of information on funding opportunities for cultural heritage, a database of examples of best practice in the field of cultural heritage, news on activities and events, and links to policy developments related to cultural heritage. i also support the proposal for a european year of cultural heritage, which could increase awareness of cultural heritage. their implementation will also require better involvement of local communities and the private sector in activities to preserve and promote cultural heritage, which could also improve the visibility of many areas and regions and their tourism development. that's why i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ cultural heritage reflects cultural and linguistic diversity and pluralism and has an impact on many areas (regional development, social cohesion, tourism, education, research, innovation, etc.). the sources of this heritage are long-term assets that are important for value creation and contribute to skills development and economic growth by promoting tourism and creating jobs. the report clearly indicates the importance of using available resources in an integrated approach to support, enhance and promote cultural heritage, while also taking into account the cultural, economic, social, historical, educational, environmental and scientific components. as is often the case, the biggest problems in preserving and developing cultural heritage are related to funding, and i therefore support the commission's initiative to reconsider the estimate of eur 5 million for regional operational programmes. i also welcome the development of tools for alternative and more participatory governance models in this area, which strengthen links between local, regional, national and european plans. cultural heritage is one of the pillars of european culture and our common legacy for future generations. the report recalls that all public policies in this area should take into account two aspects: firstly, it is an important source of jobs and income and, secondly, the greatest value of cultural heritage is its cultural value. i supported the report for the reasons i have outlined.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the road to an integrated approach to cultural heritage in europe. cultural heritage is of vital importance to any nation and country, not only in terms of the identity of the country, but also in terms of cultural tourism as an economic activity. many countries under-utilize their cultural heritage as an opportunity to become recognised as a cultural tourist destination. we also pay too little attention to the local cultural heritage, which is often doomed to decline. local communities also have a role to play here, as they must begin to discover and recognise the importance and preservation of the cultural heritage of their area in their environment. in slovenia, for example, we have seen a number of construction interventions in the past, which destroyed several archaeological finds. the archaeological and cultural heritage must be protected in a lasting way to prevent harmful behaviour by irresponsible individuals.
in writing. ‒ the report on an integrated approach to cultural heritage for europe calls for the establishment of a single eu portal dedicated to cultural heritage, which could offer access to funding capacity for cultural heritage, which i supported. the portal will contain databases of examples of best practices and excellence in the field of cultural heritage and relevant references, as well as news and links on cultural policy developments, activities and events related to heritage. better involvement of the private sector and public institutions in activities to preserve and develop cultural heritage would enhance the visibility of certain regions and the development of tourism.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this very important report on an integrated approach to cultural heritage for europe. the text highlights the importance of eu funding and european institutions' contributions to member states in order to preserve and promote cultural heritage, while putting forward solutions to reach its full social, economic and environmental potential. i particularly welcome this report in this time of crisis of european culture and identity, and i strongly support some of the proposals contained in the text, such as the designation of a european year for cultural heritage and the creation of a single eu portal with all sorts of information on european funding available for cultural heritage through european programmes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr diaconu on an integrated approach to cultural heritage for europe. cultural heritage is one of the foundations of european culture and represents our common legacy for future generations. it has a great potential for the sustainable development of individuals, societies and economies, but this potential has not yet been fully exploited at eu level. while cultural heritage policies are primarily a national competence, there is also a clear european dimension, which is addressed in many eu policies. i agree with the rapporteur that policies in this area should take two aspects into account: that it can be an important source of jobs and income, for example through tourism, and that the greatest value of cultural heritage remains its cultural value. we need stronger links between local, regional, national and european cultural heritage plans, cooperation with the cultural and creative industries, networks of tour operators, partnerships between private and public actors and ngos. in particular, there is a need to collect information on funding opportunities from eu programmes in areas related to cultural heritage such as local and regional development, cultural cooperation, research, education, support for smes, civil society and tourism.
in writing. ‒ despite criticism that the proposed report on the european citizens' initiative 'the right to water' exceeds the european parliament's competence vis-à-vis eu member states to decide on the privatisation of water resources and that most such issues should be left to internal market rules, i supported the report. i believe that the right to water must remain universal and that the public interest in water supply must prevail over the private interest in all respects. the citizens' initiative 'right to water' is the first of its kind to be considered under the new rules. the nearly 1.9 million signatures collected are proof that the public is aware of the importance of preserving water resources, their accessibility and also that water resources must not become the subject of total liberalisation. the un resolution on the human right to water and sanitation highlights that the human right to water and sanitation means that everyone has the right to safe, physically and affordably accessible and adequate and quality water. the eu is tasked with putting this provision into practice in all its aspects. with regard to the ownership or management of water resources, it is necessary to establish conditions which, irrespective of whether the ownership is public or private, allow equal access for consumers and adequate updating of infrastructure.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the first successful european citizens' initiative right to water and agree that the human right to water and sanitation has become a very important issue for citizens. this also results in increasing transparency in the field of water. however, i do not share the rapporteur's views, particularly on the decision to privatise water services at ec level. the principle of subsidiarity is at issue and the ec cannot decide on this, but the member state, the region or the municipality should decide on it, and i therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ unfortunately, the right to water is still not recognised as a fundamental human right in european law, and we are still witnessing worrying facts such as the fact that 2 million people in the eu do not have access to clean water and sanitation, and the pressure to privatise water across europe is increasing. i certainly agree that water, a public good, should be accessible to all eu citizens. it is also imperative that water and sanitation be excluded from any eu trade agreements currently under negotiation. i am thinking in particular of the ttip and tisa trade agreements. i think the right2water citizens' initiative was a huge success, gathering almost 1.9 million signatures. in addition, the initiative managed to get signatures from all member states, making right2water the first such successful initiative in the eu. but this is only the first step in the right direction, and the eu must do more in this area, as the citizens' initiative itself has shown the extraordinary interest of the public in the long-term preservation of water as a public good and its protection in the european legal order. because i believe that free access to water is a fundamental right of every individual, i voted to adopt the report.
in writing. ‒ the commission was invited to recognise the importance of this right as a public good and as a fundamental value for all eu citizens. as poverty has increased in the eu since the economic and financial crisis, water blackouts and disruptions are an unacceptable violation of human rights. meps stress that member states have a duty to ensure water supply for all, regardless of the operator. the operator must ensure that the water supply is safe and that the facilities are improved. i have reservations about the report and therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the commission’s proposal concerning the european citizens’ initiative named ‘right2water’. i was personally in favour of the critical tone of the resolution, which underlined the commission’s lack of clear commitment in 1) ensuring and guaranteeing the concept of water as a human right 2) excluding any type of privatisation of water management 3) confirming the principle that water management should by no means and any time lead to profit. i once again diverged from my group’s line on this particular vote, due to different views on exactly the points mentioned above. this decision was in relation to the responsibility i have towards the citizens that elected me in my constituency and gave me a clear mandate to fight for certain principles.
i would like to congratulate my colleague, mr tamás, on his excellent report. with a budget of over €350 billion for the period 2014-2020, cohesion policy has been the european union's main investment instrument. in my slovenia too, cohesion policy, although poorly exploited, is practically the only more important source of investment. in recent years, cohesion has significantly mitigated the negative effects of the crisis, creating hundreds of thousands of new jobs and businesses. however, we are facing some challenges, problems such as payment arrears, major structural delays in the start of the implementation of the new programming period and low absorption of funds in some member states. but all of this is solvable. finally, i would stress that promoting the integration of young people into the labour market must remain a priority of cohesion policy and that without effective cooperation between educational institutions and labour market actors, the high rate of unemployment among young graduates in the european union will not be eliminated.
of course, cohesion policy has an important and decisive role to play in reducing disparities between regions. this has proved to be more or less successful in some places, but i would like to draw attention to something else that has perhaps not been sufficiently noted today. the previous financial perspective, and this one too, shows that there is also a high risk of error, fraud and irregularities in the use of these funds. i think it is right that the commission should pay extra attention here, particularly to the control work, and in fact help the member states to draw up these resources, and of course also prepare, if necessary, appropriate manuals, appropriate assistance in order to reduce the risks due to administrative difficulties. i am thinking here in particular of the area of public procurement, the area and issue of state aid and something else that is not directly related to the cohesion rules, but their support and simplification is essential for successful exploitation.
on behalf of the alde group. first of all, i would like to thank my colleague eduard koukan for his very engaged approach to this report, which will certainly attract a lot of attention, especially from those to whom it relates. but sooner or later, it will affect all of us. your speech, commissioner, was also very encouraging and i thank you for it. we know that the regulation of the situation of the elderly is a matter for the member states, under the principle of subsidiarity. so do we have a say in this at community level? without a doubt - yes! the report points out that the fundamental objective of improving the situation of the elderly and disabled is not simply to prolong their ability and willingness to participate in the work process. it's about giving them the opportunity to be active, to be involved, to be cared for, to be healthy. we expect the commission to present a meaningful and feasible strategy to respond to demographic change and the ageing of europe's population. a healthy and productive intergenerational relationship also includes adequate pensions and secure pension funds. in times of crisis, these funds and pensions should not be used as a reserve to cover budgetary losses and it is therefore essential to ensure independent supervision of the management of pension funds. the report calls for intergenerational solidarity, systematic assistance to those older people who are no longer able to do so on their own, for example elderly people with dementia. finally, this report highlights the importance of the adoption of the united nations convention on the rights of older persons worldwide. the alde group fully supports the report.
first of all, congratulations to mr. coconut on his excellent report. i am glad that at least some of the goals we set for ourselves during the year of active ageing have been achieved. of course, there is still a long way to go, as ageing is becoming a real challenge for the union as a whole. i personally believe that the potential of older people and their experience should be recognised, as they have a valuable impact on all levels of society, including the economy. however, in addition to all the challenges facing an ageing society, the commission would like to highlight the problems associated with ensuring the stability of pension systems. it is true that pension systems are regulated differently in each country. many countries, including my country, slovenia, use a so-called pay-as-you-go system, where young people pay for older people. it is true that the design of pension systems is still in the hands of the member states, but these systems are becoming so unsustainable that it is a problem for the whole of europe. so i think, of course, that europe as a whole should be more involved in monitoring and also in recommending how the member states should design their systems, all of this, of course, with the aim of making them stable in the long term and ensuring that we have decent pensions.
i am grateful to mr kukana for his excellent report and welcome the results of the european year of active ageing and solidarity between generations, which has brought more than a shift in consciousness. attitudes towards older people will become an increasingly important indicator of the quality of european culture and policy. it's not just a political project, it's a social and cultural project, a paradigm shift. active ageing and solidarity between generations are essential for a more inclusive europe and for achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. it's important that we sustain and encourage the process. the initiatives taken in the context of the european year need to be upgraded and developed into a strong political commitment followed by concrete action. however, other aspects of the demographic problem will also need to be addressed, including the issue of actively rejuvenating europe's population in the face of the refugee crisis. if the younger generation is too small in numbers, it will be difficult to provide the desired solidarity. the long-term strategic objective must be to balance the european demographic pyramid.
the fisheries partnership agreements with guinea-bissau, cape verde and madagascar will therefore be voted on tomorrow. i will vote in favour of these agreements, which were negotiated with the european commission, as they provide mutual benefits. these fisheries partnership agreements aim to strengthen cooperation between the european union and those third countries. the partnership framework established must aim to develop a sustainable fisheries policy, as you have stressed today, ladies and gentlemen, in the debate, and to promote the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources. it is essential that the european union's financial contributions in these countries continue to be invested in local fishing communities for the development of fisheries. in this procedure, parliament's role is only to approve these agreements. but the european parliament should have a greater role than just a yes or no vote. the idea that we heard from the rapporteurs, that the european parliament should monitor the implementation of these agreements at all stages, seems to me useful and democratic.
of course, there are many positive components to these cfp agreements. in particular, the focus is on fisheries, both economically and socially, and also directly on sustainable development. in fact, of course, these agreements should be aimed at the benefit of both partners. and i think in some ways, it can be done, and there are two key elements, of course. one is the data that we have, so that that data is current, relevant. and the other is control. this control system can of course be an important issue, particularly because the countries with which we conclude agreements are of course not immune to corruption, to irregularities, and so we must of course take care that despite the compensation paid for fishing, there is no so-called illegal fishing, which could also endanger fish stocks, which of course can also be seen in the ecosystem itself. this is also noted in shark overfishing, but on the other hand we have good experience in european seas, especially in the testing of sea bass.
in writing. junker's speech was bold and courageous. in a europe so divided, he was a great motivator in tackling the refugee crisis, calling for greater solidarity, cohesion, humanity and respect for dignity. if the proposals he has put forward can be put into practice, it would certainly be a great step forward. how many figs he's got in his pockets, he'll tell you. the permanent mechanism of resettlement, relocation and assimilation seems to be a solid basis for implementation, alongside the idea of changes to asylum laws in the member states, which should allow immediate work and income for migrants even before they are granted asylum. this is mainly due to the complex bureaucratic processes involved. at this point, it is most important to start with a common european approach without religious, nationalist, racial or other pretexts that would prevent a common approach. a lot has been said in almost 80 minutes of speeches, and if at least 80 per cent of it is achieved, it will be a great success for the eu, which is now writing the history of its future. of course, we can criticize everything, but now is the time to take a positive approach. we're not looking at numbers. we're looking at people who are waiting and who deserve our attention and our help. in this place, we must not forget our common european history, marked by different wars and by refugees.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the decision to rename the delegation for relations with the palestinian legislative council to the delegation for relations with palestine.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of changing the name of the delegation for relations with the palestinian legislative council to the delegation for relations with palestine. my positive vote is not only in accordance with my belief of the viability of the two-state solution, but also related to the everyday functioning of the delegation in the european parliament. this delegation, akin to the delegation for relations with israel, is a forum of dialogue and exchange with representatives of palestine which should ultimately foster a mediated and balanced approach to solving the israeli/palestinian dispute. i believe therefore that this can be best achieved if the two delegations hold equal formal recognition in their inter-institutional relations with the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for by the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the republic of guinea-bissau. it is necessary to ensure that european union vessels have fishing opportunities in guinea-bissau waters within the limits of the available surplus and to strengthen cooperation between the eu and the republic of guinea-bissau. i also support the committee on budgets' call for the commission to report annually to parliament and the council on the results of the multiannual sectoral programme.
in writing. ‒ as it is a matter of strengthening relations between the european union and the republic of guinea-bissau, i have consistently supported the recommendation. the recommendation proposes better management and conservation of fisheries resources with the financial assistance of the european union to create long-term plans in the field of each country. whereas it is of the utmost importance to plan for the sustainable exploitation of marine resources and whereas relations between the eu and the republic of guinea-bissau need to be strengthened.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report with a motion for a non-legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for by the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of guinea-bissau. the republic of guinea-bissau, with one of the lowest gdps in the world and two thirds of its families living below the poverty line, has a large fish stock. we need to study history and think about what we can do in the future. we need to increase transparency, involve local people more and ensure that this agreement has a positive impact on local people.
in writing. ‒ as it is a matter of strengthening relations between the european union and the republic of guinea-bissau, i have consistently supported the recommendation. the report proposes better management and conservation of fisheries resources with the financial assistance of the european union to create long-term plans in the field of each country. whereas it is of the utmost importance to plan for the sustainable exploitation of marine resources and whereas relations between the eu and the republic of guinea-bissau need to be strengthened.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol between the european union and the republic of cape verde setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of cape verde. i support the adoption of a protocol to ensure that european union vessels have fishing opportunities in the fishing zone of the republic of cape verde. a close partnership between the eu and cape verde is needed, leading to the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources.
in writing. ‒ as it is a matter of strengthening relations between the european union and cape verde, i have consistently supported the recommendation. the recommendation proposes better management and conservation of fisheries resources with the financial assistance of the european union to create long-term plans in the field of each country. because it is of the utmost importance to plan for the sustainable exploitation of marine resources and because we need to strengthen relations between countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report with a motion for a non-legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol between the european union and the republic of cape verde setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of cape verde. we need better projects, more transparent fisheries monitoring and more effective action against illegal fishing. we also need to ensure the safety and protection of local fishermen and the necessary education and training. the key to this is control, which must be very thorough to avoid overfishing.
in writing. ‒ as it is a matter of strengthening relations between the european union and cape verde, i have consistently supported the recommendation. the recommendation proposes better management and conservation of fisheries resources with the financial assistance of the european union to create long-term plans in the field of each country. because it is of the utmost importance to plan for the sustainable exploitation of marine resources and because we need to strengthen relations between countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for by the fisheries partnership agreement between the republic of madagascar and the european community. it is very positive that the european union is concluding partnership agreements and at the same time providing development aid. i would point out that the committee responsible carries out all the necessary checks, both on the quantity of fish caught and on the financial contribution. the money must go to development projects and not be lost in administrative costs.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation because it proposes to strengthen the mutually beneficial relationship between the european union and madagascar. it also proposes better management and conservation of fisheries resources with the financial assistance of the european union to create long-term plans at national level. at the same time, it is crucial to plan for the sustainable exploitation of marine resources and to strengthen relations between countries.
in writing. ‒ as the aim of the agreement is to simplify and speed up the movement and customs clearance of goods worldwide and to improve cooperation between customs authorities, i supported the recommendation. trade facilitation will benefit the entire sector as it boosts global economic growth. trade facilitation is of particular importance to developing countries, which are expected to derive the greatest increase in overall trade flows from more efficient trade procedures. trade facilitation measures also help small businesses to access new export opportunities, while also giving them access to global trade routes.
in writing. ‒ trade facilitation is particularly important for developing countries, as they are expected to derive the greatest increase in overall trade flows from more efficient trade procedures. trade facilitation measures also help small businesses to access new export opportunities, while also giving them access to global trade routes. i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation for the eu to adopt a protocol to the marrakesh agreement, better known as the agreement that constituted the world trade organisation in 1995. this protocol is called the world trade facilitation agreement and has the objectives of easing customs procedures, reducing border delays and cut costs for exporters, in particular small firms and producers in developing countries. the agreement in fact includes a technical assistance mechanism (for which the eu has pledged over eur 400 million in 5 years) that would help developing countries to handle customs procedures: this mechanism could help both developed and developing countries to reduce export costs by as much as 10-15%. the world trade facilitation agreement would take effect upon ratification by two thirds of all wto members.
in writing. ‒ the budapest convention is an agreement which falls partly within the exclusive competence of the european union. however, the convention does not provide for the possibility of the union becoming a party. however, member states cannot ratify or accede to it without the union's consent. eleven member states are parties to the budapest convention and fifteen member states have indicated that they do not have inland waterways covered by that convention. austria and poland have expressed their interest in becoming parties to the convention. as their participation will promote the wide implementation of this legal instrument, which will benefit citizens and businesses, i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ the current refugee crisis and the disaster in the mediterranean have demonstrated that europe must work together to prevent further disasters and to respond effectively to the refugee crisis, fulfilling its duty to protect people in need. as a first and very important step towards the implementation of the principle of solidarity, the commission proposed an emergency relocation measure to relocate 40,000 persons in urgent need of international protection from italy and greece to other member states. the dublin system has created imbalances between member states, both in the arrival of refugees and migrants and in their final destination, which require its renewal. the commission's proposed relocations constitute a derogation from the dublin regulation. i support the conclusion that the mechanism that would be set up again should be binding on all member states and should cover a much larger number of people than the initial 40,000. i agree with all the major key points of the report, such as the binding key for the allocation of refugees among member states on the basis of the principle of solidarity and responsibility sharing, the increase in the number of refugees to be relocated, the importance of not relocating asylum seekers without their consent, and the consideration of their preferences (family and social ties, knowledge of languages, etc.), which is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on interim measures in the field of international protection for the benefit of italy and greece, which proposes the relocation of 40,000 asylum seekers from italy and greece. it is not only the political wisdom of the european union that is being tested, but also the humanitarianism and solidarity of europe. these are the values on which europe was built and on which it is based today. i am in favour of the principle of fair solidarity between member states in dealing with the refugee crisis, but at the same time i am in favour of the consistent return of those migrants whose lives are not threatened by war. the first priority is to help those who are in dire need of international assistance.
in writing. ‒ the objective of the report on provisional measures in the field of international protection for the benefit of italy and greece is to establish provisional measures in the field of international protection for the benefit of italy and greece in order to enable them to deal effectively with the actual inflow of third-country nationals. the asylum systems of italy and greece are under pressure. the provisional measures provided for in this proposal relate in particular to the relocation of applicants for international protection who appear, at first sight, to be in need of international protection from italy and greece to other member states. i supported the report.
i was happy to support the report on municipal policies. i am convinced that, in addition to the various associations that link different cities, urban policy should also be discussed at european level, with the european commission and, of course, the european parliament. we've heard the key arguments before. in the states, it's 50 percent, and even 70, 80 percent of people living in big cities. these large cities, in addition to economic development, also bring urban problems, i.e. the daily migration of people, and the associated environmental pollution, and all these questions require quality answers. the next thing that i think is very important is the coexistence of cities and rural areas, which means that urban policies in the field of public transport, as well as the opportunities offered by suburban settlements, are what need to be promoted and the exchange of good practices. the best platform for this is the european platform.
in writing. ‒ more and more people in europe and around the world live in cities. in 1950, only half of europeans lived in urban areas, but by 2014 this figure had risen to 72%. policies at local, regional, national and european level are therefore facing new challenges in meeting the economic, social and cultural needs of an increasing number of people in cities. in europe's urban centres, which are the driving force of the european economy thanks to the exchange of information, contributing as much as two thirds of gdp, obstacles to growth and employment need to be removed and they need to be more closely linked to european policy-making. cities have only a small role in policy-making, but this can be improved by involving them early in the policy processes, for example through consultation and exchange of best practice and experience, and by introducing an assessment of the territorial impact of policies on cities, which will improve the practical feasibility of measures. a coordinated and integrated approach is needed, including the creation of synergies between the efsi, eu programmes, public investment and private capital, in order to maximise the leverage effect of the invested funds. this report sets out the guidelines for future sustainable urban development policy at european level, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the urban dimension of eu policies. the urban agenda is a european union competence and it is right that it is discussed both in the european commission and in the european parliament. we need to encourage a debate on urban mobility, as in 2014 as much as half of the world's population and 72% of europe's population lived in urban areas, and the numbers are increasing year by year. cities, alongside economic development, also bring problems, and we need to find solutions to these problems: education, sport, a decent life for everyone, clean air, transport, emissions, etc.
in writing. ‒ the report on the urban dimension of eu policies states that many of the challenges europe still faces are related to the economy, the environment, the climate. but they're mostly found around cities. such as poverty, social and spatial deprivation. solutions to these issues need to be sought, for example resource efficiency and a carbon-neutral economy; economic development and innovation; social innovation and integration. i supported the report because it suggests that cities need to be more adequately involved in the design and implementation of eu policies, while at the same time these policies need to be better adapted to urban realities.
dear high representative, you have convinced us today that you truly want to enter the realm of those who can make things happen. i think it was necessary to get to the point where we were faced with a disaster, a refugee disaster, to understand that there is a causal link between the wars, the interventions, the illusions that were the basis of western policy in the middle east, and the consequences that we are facing today. but i think it's important to recognize what you told us when you said, "we're going to fight for peace. peace is the most essential thing. the first thing you will have to face is convincing the big players, which the european union has not been, that europe can add value to the peace process, both in the middle east, between the palestinians and the israelis, both in the middle east as a whole and, i would say, beyond.
in general, mutual trust and respect are key to the peace process. i'm all for a two-state solution for two peoples. as for the motion for a resolution, i must say that it is unbalanced and, if it remains unchanged, i cannot support it. every coin has two sides and every process has at least two sides. therefore, one party cannot be to blame for everything, as this resolution seeks to portray. as a member of the committee on budgetary control, i am also concerned about how european money is spent. unfortunately, in this complex situation, there are often ngos, which also receive funds from the european budget, suspected of doing things behind the scenes that seriously damage the middle east peace process, such as promoting anti-semitism and calling for the destruction of israel as a state.
the european union, the commission and parliament must therefore decide once and for all what the future of the european union will be in the field of the labour market. will this flexibility of the labour market be mainly supported or will conditions for more permanent jobs be created? for young people, of course, this precariousness is a curse, because they cannot really shape their future, and of course education sometimes does not help them to do so, because we know cases where highly educated people cannot find employment, where they are actually forced into precarious work. in some cases, they also do so-called voluntary work in slovenia, i.e. without pay, just to keep their working hours running or to provide opportunities for doing so. and one more thing: this method of course also gradually eliminates the middle layer, which is not to be ignored. and speaking of economic growth, i think it's time that economic growth and, of course, employment, more permanent employment, go hand in hand. but not because economic growth is increasing on the one hand, but because precarious employment is increasing on the other.
in writing. the labour market is constantly changing. the requirements for knowledge, competences and education are also changing. the european financial and economic crisis has slowed down the economy and led to high unemployment. matching skills with labour market demand is certainly a challenge for the union as a whole. that's why this report is so important. the fact is that many times the education system does not respond to the needs of the economy. this requires fundamental reforms, both in economic policies and in the labour market. the data for slovenia also show that we have more and more high school students and graduates of social sciences, while professional professions are disappearing. a solution must be found to ensure that there is synergy between supply and demand. it is also important to introduce the dual system of education in slovenia as soon as possible. the fact is, safe jobs no longer exist in this day and age. there are false expectations that without continuous training and updating skills, someone could survive in the same job from their first job until retirement. it is important that we as individuals are aware of this, and the state must be aware of this as well, and create an enabling environment for acquiring the skills and competences that are most in demand in the market.
the state of health and health systems is one of the key challenges facing the european union, exacerbated by an ageing population and an influx of refugees. i welcome the decision of the commissioner for health to set up an expert group to assess the performance of the member states' health systems. systematic efforts are needed to ensure greater sustainability of health systems and to reduce quality gaps. the establishment of the expert group is a step in the right direction. only the european union can monitor the differences in the functioning of the health systems of the member states. only one who has complete control can lead the operation. i am convinced that the european semester model as we know it in the economic and financial fields could be usefully applied in the health field, and i am pleased to see that the number of people who share this view is growing. this would enable the annual cycle of health policy coordination to be established and develop a framework for reform and convergence of health systems. we could also develop common standards for the treatment of public funds spent on public health. the commissioner said that the member states were not willing to harmonize either technology or prices. both of which are detrimental to patients who don't like inequality. i'm not opposed to diversity when it promotes progress, but i'm opposed to diversity when it expresses a lack of willingness to cooperate and is detrimental to patients. it is important that patients feel that health cooperation is an added value of the european union. the lisbon treaty does not prevent us from doing more.
advanced healthcare, high standards and universal access to public health services must remain a key component of what makes life in the union special: a high quality of life. the strategy leading to these objectives must take account of the fact that the years of crisis have placed additional burdens on the functioning of health systems, in particular in terms of reducing costs in public health budgets, with those countries that have had to cope with the consequences of the crisis more severely being hit. demographic change is a key factor influencing the functioning and development of the health system. and that extending life also means extending the period of time when a person needs constant medical care. public health affects many other areas of social life. lifestyle, diet, housing, working conditions and safety at work, the pharmaceutical dimension of treatment and even tax policy. finally, efficiency, accessibility and sustainability are also crucially dependent on the european science, research and technological development penetration, which we must support.
on behalf of the alde group. the monitoring of the situation of human rights and the rule of law in the world, especially in countries with which we have partnerships and therefore more possibilities and channels of communication, is clearly a permanent task for this parliament. we deal with azerbaijan a lot, and today we have a new, very sharp resolution on the table for some very good reasons. i wish it could have a positive effect, but i'm afraid it won't. in baku, they are convinced that their country is being accused more often than other comparable countries - for example, neighbouring armenia, which with russian troops on its territory occupies one fifth of their territory and has expelled almost all the indigenous people of nagorno-karabakh, while we, the european union, do nothing to change the situation. azerbaijan, a complex and strategically important country, certainly deserves criticism, but also a more comprehensive and balanced approach in the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ solidarity is a key european value. and cohesion policy is the best example of solidarity between countries, solidarity between regions with different levels of development. this is precisely why i supported the report by mr deutsch, because cohesion policy is one of the most important drivers of investment activity. it should be noted that in the years of the worst economic crisis, cohesion projects accounted for between 20% and 80% of investment activity in the less developed eu countries, i.e. net recipients of cohesion funds. crossborder projects, which we also promote through the common cohesion policy, link countries together at project level, there is more cooperation, more exchange of good practices, more exchange of knowledge. it is necessary and fair that, in the meantime, we also provide an appropriate level of pre-accession assistance to the candidate countries on their way to the eu family, so that they can start drawing on regional development funds as soon as possible. only in this way can they overcome the current development backlog and thus also help to ensure political stability in the region.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy has a crucial role to play in reducing disparities between regions, promoting economic, social and territorial cohesion between member states and creating jobs. cohesion policy is the main investment policy at eu level and in some member states the main source of public investment, which has unfortunately decreased by as much as 15% in recent times. the commission's sixth cohesion report shows that cohesion policy has mitigated the impact of the sharp decline in public investment over the period 2007-2013 by 60% in some member states and by 20% on average in the eu, by providing an inflow of funds at a time when national investment has fallen or dried up. despite the very welcome positive effects of cohesion policy so far, however, there is a need to go one step further in the future. the report calls for a more targeted and profitable future cohesion policy, which can be achieved by shifting the focus from absorption criteria to quality of consumption and high added value of co-financed projects. i myself welcome the increased focus on results and the increased thematic focus of cohesion policy, in particular on innovation, education and support for smes, and am therefore all the more pleased that the report was supported by a large majority of members in the vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on investment, jobs and growth: promoting economic, social and territorial cohesion in the eu. cohesion policy is a major investment and aims to create jobs, competitiveness, economic growth, sustainable development and improve the quality of life of citizens. we can't give that up. today, cohesion policy must be seen in the context of the economic crisis and in the context of achieving the europe 2020 objectives. i support strengthening the original role of cohesion policy, namely to increase economic, social and territorial cohesion in all eu regions, especially in the less developed and those with the most limited possibilities, as the report also emphasises.
in writing. ‒ the report on 'investing for jobs and growth: promoting economic, social and territorial cohesion in the union' highlights the clear successes of cohesion policy. the european regional development fund has created almost 600 000 new jobs, invested in 200 000 smes and supported 80 000 start-ups. it has funded 22,000 research and business sector cooperation projects, connecting 5.5 million people. at the same time, the european social fund supported 68 million individual participation projects, providing 5.7 million jobs for the unemployed and inactive. it also recorded 400,000 reported cases of new business creation and people becoming self-employed. i supported the report because it stresses that the impact of these investments is still growing. this will be the case for the next few years, as member states will have funds from the 2007-2013 programmes to use until the end of 2015.
in writing. ‒ the year 2012 was designated as the european year for active ageing and solidarity between generations and was a great opportunity to exchange good practice within the eu. the main objectives of this european year include raising general awareness of the importance and dimensions of active ageing. active ageing allows us to exploit the great potential of older people in society, who are enriched by their exceptional experience and wisdom. i am convinced that the demographic change europe is facing should be seen as an opportunity to improve the quality of life in the ageing process and to make society more friendly, rather than as a burden on european society. recognising the contribution of older people and enhancing the positive role they play in society, and working to improve intergenerational dialogue, is key to achieving this goal. intergenerational solidarity can only be achieved through mutual respect and cooperation between different social groups. solidarity among the elderly! an excellent example of this is the slovenian project "old for old", which is based on assistance among the elderly with the support of local communities as well as the non-governmental sector. i am therefore happy to support solutions at european level that will enable older members of society to enjoy a good quality of life and better integration into society.
in writing. - i welcome the report by mr kukana. the 2012 european year for active ageing and solidarity between generations provided an important political impetus that helped to start a debate on the challenges of active ageing in europe and did more than bring about a shift in consciousness. it's important that we sustain and encourage the process. the initiatives taken in the context of the european year need to be upgraded and developed into a strong political commitment followed by concrete action. more attention to the demographic rejuvenation of europe's population by civil society and the private sector would also be needed.
in writing. ‒ 2012 was the european year of active ageing and solidarity between generations, which aimed to raise awareness of the importance of active ageing, to promote the exchange of information and policies on active ageing, and to provide a framework for concrete action by the union and the member states. the eu is facing unprecedented demographic, social and structural changes that require an immediate response. the general ageing of the population is accompanied by an increase in the social and health care needs of older people and their families. the european year 2012 was a success in terms of promoting relevant actors in this field, but the objective of establishing new networks for the exchange of funds, projects and ideas between the public and private sectors and civil society was rarely achieved. i agree with the rejection of active ageing policies as a mere instrument for maintaining the employability of older workers. member states should make all necessary assessments and make every effort to move towards a life-cycle approach and, where appropriate, to reform pension systems. i believe that the message that the report identified as a fruit of the european year 2012, that older people are not a burden but that their experience, life achievements and knowledge are valuable for the economy and society, is extremely important. the report in question is well written, and i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation, results and overall assessment of the 2012 european year for active ageing and solidarity between generations. the report essentially touches on both 2012 and the future. the fact is that europe is facing an ageing population. slovenia is also experiencing an ageing population. according to the statistical office of the republic of slovenia, in the first half of 2014, 17.5% of the population aged 65 or over lived in slovenia, which is 0.2 percentage points more than at the end of 2013 and 0.5 percentage points more than at the end of 2012. the eu must therefore address the demographic, social and other changes brought about by an ageing population and provide a positive environment for older people to fulfil their potential.
in writing. ‒ i supported the evaluation report on the european year of active ageing and solidarity between generations 2012 because i believe that one of the major challenges is the ageing of the population itself, which will have to be tackled at european union level. progress is needed to integrate older people into society and to ensure their social security. by 2020, the global population over 60 is expected to reach 20% of the total population. we need to aim for active ageing accompanied by the best opportunities for health, cooperation and safety, with a view to improving the quality of life during the ageing process. active ageing can provide older people with the potential for physical and mental well-being and social well-being throughout their lives. it is also important to integrate into society, to provide adequate protection, safety and care. the european structural and investment fund horizon 2020 as well as the programme for employment and social innovation should be used.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, on which i was shadow for the alde group. the report recognises that active ageing and solidarity between generations are key to achieving the europe 2020 objectives for a competitive, prosperous and inclusive europe. the text stresses the need for a holistic approach of ageing, involving all decision-making levels (eu, national, regional and local levels), civil society and the private sector. the report underlines the importance of promoting age-friendly environments for a more inclusive society and acknowledges the benefit that a un convention on the rights of older persons would bring to improve the lives of older persons. one of the crucial shortcomings that the report highlights is the need for the commission to adopt a comprehensive eu strategy on demographic change to coordinate eu action in various areas, in order to tackle the challenges posed by an ageing population.
in writing. ‒ the 2011 white paper on transport set out an ambitious plan to transform the european transport system and create a genuine single european transport area. the competitive transport strategy aims to increase mobility, remove major barriers in key areas and stimulate growth and employment. at the same time, the proposals aim to significantly reduce europe's dependence on imported oil and to reduce carbon emissions from transport by 60% by 2050. in principle, i think the white paper is well written, but i am also in favour of updating the emission reduction targets, of ensuring the internalisation of the external costs of all modes of freight and passenger transport to avoid double taxation, of establishing the facts on the social, economic and environmental benefits that would be gained from further support for national and international night rail services and ic services, of banning noisy freight wagons throughout the eu by 2020, of exploring the possibility of extending sulphur limits in marine fuels for the whole of the european maritime area and of promoting walking and cycling. the report describes the real picture of the white paper and points to the need to assess the extent to which the list of measures in the white paper is sufficient to achieve its overall objectives, which is why i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the 2011 transport white paper: assessment and the way forward towards sustainable mobility. the transport sector in europe is of great importance for the provision of services. we must constantly strive to achieve improvements in a variety of areas: sustainability, innovation, smart transport systems, increasing cleaner transport, decarbonisation, noise, air quality, etc. we also have a lot of work to do in the area of urban transport, but we must be very careful not to impose solutions that are not appropriate for a particular local environment. at european union level, unhindered and cross-border door-to-door travel should be made possible for passengers. passengers should be offered the fastest and/or cheapest way of travelling on a single ticket. they must be able to choose, book and pay online, no matter how many different means of transport a passenger uses.
in writing. ‒ transport is a complex system based on the interaction of infrastructure, vehicles, information technology and compliance with rules. these factors must be part of our shared vision for change. although the european union has the power to shape our future transport policy, in many areas european intervention will not be enough. complementary activities at national, regional and local levels of government as well as of citizens and industry themselves. in the 2011 white paper, the european union presented a comprehensive roadmap for transport improvement that improves mobility, removes barriers and promotes growth and jobs. although the european union has the power to shape our future transport policy, in many areas european intervention will not be enough. we need to work together at the local level. as the report calls for more frequent and sustainable development-oriented intervention, i supported it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which welcomes the commission’s intention to carry out a midterm review of the 2011 white paper on transport, to evaluate what progress has been achieved towards reaching the predefined objectives. the paper had set out specific targets and in particular 10 goals to achieve a competitive and resource-efficient transport system. the most important aspects of the text are the ones that call on the commission to work towards modernising transport infrastructure, to increase and improve urban mobility, to give specific attention to road safety and to place efforts into greater simplification and harmonisation of transport and logistics documents. an essential part of the plan should in my opinion be the successful development of the trans-european transport network (ten-t), which would effectively link the transport networks of all eu regions.
in writing. ‒ gender equality is one of the fundamental principles and also one of the eu's objectives and tasks. this is a basic condition for women and girls to enjoy their full human rights and is essential for strengthening their role and for building a sustainable and inclusive society. available statistics and research indicate that women are under-represented in most scientific, engineering and managerial jobs and senior management positions. the situation is similar in positions where women are the majority, for example in the education sector. despite positive developments in recent years, gender equality in science and academia has still not been achieved (the situation varies between member states, research fields and academic titles). the representation of women in the highest academic and managerial positions in scientific institutions and universities is surprisingly low. this indicates the presence of a so-called 'glass ceiling' phenomenon, invisible barriers based on prejudice that limit the advancement of women to positions of responsibility. the report calls, inter alia, on the commission and the member states to examine and, if necessary, amend the legal provisions in force in order to strengthen equal treatment between women and men and to ensure that the principle of non-discrimination is respected in all forms of employment contracts or funding, which is why i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the career path of women in science and academia and the existing glass ceilings, because gender equality is one of the most important elements for ensuring human rights in their entirety. numerous statistics show that women are under-represented in most scientific, engineering and managerial jobs and senior management positions. in slovenia, we face similar problems, as women in leadership positions are more the exception than the rule. i support the call in the report for the commission and the member states to examine the legal provisions in force in order to ensure that they are properly implemented and, if necessary, to amend them in order to strengthen equal treatment between women and men.
in writing. ‒ i support the report as it analyses barriers to entry and career development for women at the academic and scientific level. the obstacles are numerous and quite complex, taking many forms, from discrimination based on stereotypes to the obligations of motherhood and other family responsibilities. many actions to combat the above factors have been launched over the years with effective strategies to promote gender equality. the current situation is far from satisfactory and the report therefore proposes measures to be taken between member states under the european research area and the specific programme horizon 2020.
in writing. ‒ education is a shared competence of the eu, and as such should only be influencing member states where it can improve best practice. touching a very important topic, the rodrigues report mostly promotes gender ideology, which would strip families of their parenting role as a child’s chief educator. it calls for mandated comprehensive sexual education in primary and secondary schooling, oversight and monitoring by the commission of gender equality in teaching, teachers and curricula. let us let girls be girls and focus on education to allow their talents flourish. i supported amendment 1, which proposed an alternative resolution, emphasising subsidiarity principles.
in writing. ‒ education is a fundamental right of all people and is also of paramount importance for ensuring gender equality and empowering girls. the education and training of girls and women is an important european value and an essential part of the full enjoyment of all social, economic, cultural and political rights. a study by the ep's directorate-general for home affairs shows that 30 million girls worldwide are excluded from the education system at the age when they should be attending primary school. the report encourages member states to implement educational measures aimed at combating gender stereotypes, teaching girls and boys about equality, human dignity and self-confidence so that they can make their important decisions in an autonomous and sufficiently informed way, teaching women to feel in control of their bodies, combating homophobic and transphobic bullying and helping to combat discrimination based on sexual orientation and identity. the report proposes measures to ensure the promotion of gender equality, the raising of the professional profiles and competences of girls and, last but not least, the improvement of their personal and professional development in all national education systems, which is why i supported the report on the empowerment of girls in the eu through education.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on empowering girls in the eu through education. the report touches on important issues such as women's education, women's employment, gender equality, gender stereotypes, ensuring equal access for girls and women to science and technology education programmes. nevertheless, the report is largely vague, outdated and redundant, and in some parts it touches upon areas of member states' competence. i can't help but feel that we could have done a much better report on the empowerment of girls in the eu through education.
in writing. ‒ the rodrigues report touches on important issues such as education as a tool to fight poverty, ensuring equal access for girls and women to science and technology education programmes, combating violence against girls and women, ratification of the istanbul convention. however, the text is not good enough, because in some parts it interferes with areas of competence of the member states and in some places it does not follow the title of the report, while at the same time going beyond the limits of its competence. these are the reasons why i did not support the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it addresses a series of key issues related to gender equality. in an effort to close the existing gap between women’s education and professional development, the text calls for equal access measures and the use of information and communication technologies already from pre-school, with the aim of encouraging women to take up science, engineering and mathematics-related study paths. the report also tackles the issue of sexual stereotyping, and calls for awareness to be raised both in formal and informal education. furthermore, gender education should be included in school curricula and teaching materials should not contain sexist or discriminatory content. teachers should also be properly trained to promote equality, while curricula and educational materials should be critically reviewed in order to provide stereotype-free education.
in writing. ‒ the eu has concluded over 120 bilateral and sectoral agreements with switzerland, the most important of which is the free trade agreement signed in 1972. this is the agreement on the free movement of persons, land and air transport, technical barriers to trade, public procurement, research and agriculture. the draft report focuses on the functioning of the free movement of persons between the european union and switzerland, which is covered by the abovementioned agreement. i supported the report because it supports deepening economic relations.
in writing. the european union is not only in crisis, but also in transformation. further political and economic consolidation is needed on the basis of the fundamental ideas of the founding fathers of the ec. we need to think about what it means to respect human dignity today and how we can work together. this requires political will and reforms. we need to accelerate the transformation. the solution is not to renationalise competences, but to have more europe. the refugee crisis is an expression of the need for more europe. i support a binding permanent mechanism for the relocation of beneficiaries of international protection as well as strengthening security at eu borders. the need to address the root causes of mass migration flows, including by finding lasting solutions to conflicts in our neighbourhood, calls for a will to greater political integration to establish a genuine common european security, defence, development and external policy strategy. i also support the fact that africa needs a new approach that includes better opportunities for trade and development, which will open up opportunities for economic growth.
in writing. ‒ according to president juncker, europe remains in solidarity with migrants and with each other. i supported the motion for a resolution because i support the idea of a list of safe countries and the establishment of a special fund for refugees. of course, we could build fences, but as long as the neighbouring countries are not stable, the problem of refugee migration will not be solved, and europe will still be a refuge for many. it is also of the utmost importance to safeguard european interests, and therefore the opening of borders requires the immediate regulation of legal immigration and the asylum system. we're moving in the right direction, but we still have a long way to go. it is worth noting that the eu remains the largest global donor of development and humanitarian aid, with €4 billion so far for refugees from syria. i voted in favor of the motion.
in writing. ‒ regarding to the israeli-palestinian conflict, i strongly support the two-state solution on the basis of the 1967 borders, with the importance that all parties resume negotiations as soon as possible with a view to reaching a just, lasting and comprehensive peace. the stabilisation of this conflict is one of the first necessary blocks for stabilising the whole region.
in writing. ‒ as the report supports the commitment to a just and comprehensive solution to the israeli-palestinian conflict, i supported it. the eu believes that a negotiated two-state solution, where states can coexist in peace and security and recognise each other, is possible. the eu's priority is to insist on this feasible solution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which i found balanced and an overall good attempt to reiterate the european parliament’s call for a solution to the israeli/palestinian dispute. the resolution acknowledges rights and responsibilities of the two sides and strongly encourages the main parties, regional actors, foreign leaders and international institutions to step up their efforts towards finding a lasting and mutually acceptable solution. i would particularly underline the urgent need for the eu to play a more proactive and decisive role in the process, by coming up with new ideas and strategies to foster mediation.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution that was proposed because i believe that the many human rights violations in belarus are of concern and need to be addressed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on belarus, which does recognise some positive steps taken by the belarusian government, such as the freeing of several political prisoners, but at the same time reiterates its concerns over the persistently worrying human rights situation in the country and the shortcoming observed during the previous elections. it is important that the resolution strongly calls for the respect of media freedom and invites the authorities to grant minorities adequate rights. it is also positive to note that the text underlines the deplorable practice of the death penalty still in use in belarus, the only country in europe that still foresees such an extreme and inhuman type of criminal punishment. substantial improvements on all aspects of human rights are still to be made if our cooperation with the country is to be strengthened in the future.
in writing. ‒ the economic and financial crisis we are facing has further increased the importance of social and solidarity economy enterprises. the current labour market situation indicates an increased exclusion and deprivation of certain groups, such as the disabled, young people, the elderly, women, the long-term unemployed and disadvantaged workers. the report highlights the importance of the social economy, as well as the fact that social entrepreneurship is more effective than other forms of entrepreneurship in crisis situations. the areas (exclusion from the europe 2020 action plans, public procurement, financing, training and support and incentives) needed to improve the state of the social and solidarity economy are described. this, by virtue of its social and inclusive character, offers employment to groups most often excluded from the open labour market, thus contributing to solidarity, social cohesion and economic growth. i supported the report because it stressed the importance of and a more serious approach to the social and solidarity economy.
in writing. ‒ in order to achieve the objectives set out in strategy 2020, social enterprises have shown that they can offer innovative solutions and proposals to increase social cohesion. in particular, in times of economic recession, these companies are particularly resilient to economic fluctuations. at the same time, social entrepreneurship offers a range of solutions tailored to specific needs. it is crucial to give this sector special attention at european and national level. the report also calls on the commission to include social entrepreneurship in its action plans for employment and social inclusion. it also requires member states to promote social entrepreneurship and investment in the social economy. i supported the report. social entrepreneurship is particularly important in times of uncertainty on the labour market, but as with all other areas, the successful implementation of european ideas depends primarily on the individual member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on ‘social economy’, centred around the principle that enterprises must receive more help to create jobs that benefit vulnerable people and local communities. the resolution calls for better cooperation among social enterprises and especially for an easier access to eu funding in order to boost their development. such measures (including the idea of creating a special company category for such enterprises and granting them a special legal status of their own) have the main objective of fostering employment among vulnerable groups and contributing to positive social and environmental impact in local communities.
in writing. ‒ savings and labour market reforms have negative effects on employment rates and the creation and quality of new jobs. the crisis has disproportionately affected young people, whose unemployment rate is twice that of adults. on the one hand, there are 24 million unemployed people in europe (including 7.5 million young people who are not in employment or education) and only 2 million jobs available. unfortunately, this broad structural problem cannot be solved by addressing the mismatch between skills and labour market needs. to create a more equitable, sustainable and inclusive society and quality jobs, economic and social policy reforms and ambitious labour market reforms are also needed. policies addressing skills should not focus on meeting labour market needs alone, but should equip individuals with broad competences to enable them to develop into active and responsible citizens. unfortunately, the report focuses too much on meeting the needs of the labour market and too little on developing the skills that are particularly characteristic of individuals. the aim of the dissemination of knowledge and skills should be primarily to improve the position of individuals in the labour market and their living conditions, rather than to meet the needs of the labour market, which is why i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ as the resolution encourages member states to adopt ambitious economic policies and labour market reforms, in particular with a view to achieving sustainable and inclusive growth, i supported it. the demands on knowledge, skills and the labour market itself are changing. the european economic and financial crisis has slowed down the economy and led to high unemployment. the skills need to be matched to the actual market demand, which is definitely a major challenge for the european union as a whole. often, education systems do not respond to the needs of the economy, and many reforms are urgently needed. both in terms of economic policies and labour market. we need to find synergies. the fact is, safe jobs no longer exist in this day and age. there are false expectations that without continuous training and updating skills, someone could survive in the same job from their first job until retirement. it is important that we as individuals are aware of this, and the state must be aware of this as well, and create an enabling environment for acquiring the skills and competences that are most in demand in the market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which deals with ways with which to make the eu economy more competitive. the issue of competitiveness in the global economy is of great importance especially with a view to finding ways out of the crisis. the resolution addresses a number of crucial aspects that are in need of reform, such as the personal career flexibility of employees and the often underestimated relationship and cooperation between education systems and businesses. in relation to this issue, the text also calls for better solutions to ensure that skills and jobs are matched. the resolution also underlines the need for a greater investment in jobs and life-long learning for the unemployed.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report because it encourages the eu institutions to take responsibility for making rules on eu secondary legislation or to respect primary legislation when deciding on policies in different areas. at the same time, they help the member states of the european union in every possible way in their efforts to respect the values and principles of the union during times of austerity and budgetary constraints.
it was not just a shameful meeting of the interior ministers, it is a shame what is happening in hungary today. closing borders, punishing people, threatening all those who believe in solidarity and humanity. we are arguing about relocating 120,000 refugees, when there are over 12 million syrians who are refugees. if our countries were able to agree on burden-sharing immediately, we would have the time and energy today to focus on implementing measures that would create stability and peace in war zones. with the road blocked, the refugees are looking for new opportunities. i would like to draw attention to a great danger: the minefields in croatia and bosnia and herzegovina. i am glad that in slovenia more than 70% of the people are against the construction of a fence with croatia, but i am concerned about the beginning of the increased control by austria on the border with slovenia and the latest announcement by the slovenian prime minister about the introduction of temporary controls on the border with hungary. the refugee crisis has become a new crisis of morality and ethics in europe. bad example and bad prospect.
my country, slovenia, has been increasingly mentioned as an actor in the refugee crisis recently, partly because hungary has diverted the flow, the transit of refugees through croatia and slovenia to germany and austria. but problems have also arisen in recent days because of germany's closing of its borders. austria also did the same today with slovenia. hungary is closing its borders, and slovenia will do the same. finally, croatia and slovenia, which have a relatively low absorption capacity, are left behind. i hope that they will do so ... that the european union, and in particular the council, will act in a more coordinated and more solidarity-based manner in the future and help slovenia and croatia with the big wave that we expect in the coming hours and days.
it seems that we have no particular difficulty in defining ambitious objectives. but i would prefer that the common objectives should be an expression of a common understanding of the problems and a willingness to solve them rather than the result of negotiations. the common diagnostic understanding necessarily includes the recognition that the world has taken a turn towards conflict in the last few years, which threatens the achievement of the millennium development goals. the question of peace has come back to us because we have not achieved some of the key millennium development goals. our job is not just to set high goals. the key issue is how to ensure the political conditions for achieving the objectives at global, regional and national levels. one of those conditions is the coherence of objectives, as the vice-president, mr timmermans, has rightly pointed out. the second, and equally important, precondition concerns goal 16, which is about working for peaceful and inclusive societies, which i would actually put first. all that we ask ourselves to do can only be achieved if our societies live in peace and freedom, if they are attentive to the dignity of each person and to all identities, no matter how many. only such companies can build a global partnership. we need entities that are sovereign and engaged in the global development strategy. we know today not only poorly functioning countries, but also very polarized and non-inclusive societies. i am grateful to our european representatives for having emphasised the importance of good governance in the process. the third assumption is that of integral concepts and integral development strategies that follow a holistic understanding of the world. i've been very careful about the terminology, and i've noticed that some key words in the goals are missing: freedom, democracy, dignity, identity are not explicitly mentioned, but are partly covered by other terms.
i'd like to welcome the esteemed commissioner, mr. hogan. i too thank you for the action which will at least try to alleviate a little the serious crisis, the deep crisis in the agricultural sector. i agree with those who point out that this was probably a late reaction and that we detected this crisis a few months earlier than we did this autumn and that the amount is also relatively low. in slovenia, too, 1.4 million will not solve the crisis, but we must also make efforts in the future. on the one hand, it will probably be necessary to intervene in agricultural policy, but on the other hand i also support the efforts made by mrs mcguinness in the area of trade practices, because i am convinced that the european consumer is prepared to pay more for a litre of milk than for half a litre of water and that there is a need to put things in order in this area too. on the other hand, it also encourages the integration of european farmers, in order to make it easier for them to resist the pressure of large and concentrated trade.
climate change is therefore one of the greatest challenges facing the modern world, with proven impacts on the number and frequency of extreme weather events, biodiversity loss, agricultural production and food security, and, last but not least, on human health. the european union and slovenia are therefore faced with a difficult task, namely how to restructure the economy so that the exploitation of the environment and resources available for economic growth is no longer taken for granted. above all, a more responsible approach to the environment is the challenge we have to face, and it is, in fact, the so-called circular economy and, of course, the so-called green economy that can offer new opportunities. it is therefore of particular importance to me that the ministry of the environment and spatial planning of slovenia has published a draft framework programme for the transition to a green economy and invited the participants to participate in it. in this context, we are of course rightly expecting that ngos concerned with this sector will also be invited to participate and, of course, adequately supported.
solidarity is the word that has been spoken the most in europe in recent days, and i support the measures that the commission has prepared for the council and will be supported tomorrow in parliament, and the aid to hungary, italy, greece. in the coming days, similar measures will probably be needed for croatia and slovenia, where the wave of refugees is pouring in. i also miss the sincere support for the other two european countries that have already suffered greatly from the refugee crisis, namely macedonia and serbia. i am convinced that there must be solidarity with these two countries as well as with the others who will be affected by the crisis in the coming weeks. there must also be genuine solidarity with the western balkan countries in the field of pre-accession aid and in future cohesion policy, because if we do not have approximately the same living conditions in europe, no matter where we are in europe, we will continue to witness the kind of refugee crises we do not want in the future.
in writing. ‒ the resolution on the commission's 2016 work programme addresses in its first part the very important issue of better regulation in the framework of the regulatory fitness and performance programme (refit). in this first phase, it is crucial to define in a meaningful way which legislation needs to be revised or repealed if it is no longer appropriate or has a lower eu added value, or if it no longer meets its original purpose today. it is essential, however, that refit is not used as an excuse to deregulate or lower ambitions in the area of social and environmental standards. the key objective of simplification should be to increase quality, including by improving the assessment of impact, not quantity. at the same time, it is also appropriate to reduce the administrative and administrative burden and thus the costs associated with new proposals. the potential over-promotion of deregulation under the pretext of better regulation or burden reduction may have long-term negative consequences for eu policy objectives, including environmental, social, health and safety standards. by reducing administrative and clerical workloads, we must strive to create quality jobs while preserving existing jobs in europe, thereby strengthening competitiveness and sustainable growth. as the resolution makes a satisfactory reference to the potential risks of the refit programme, i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution as it touches on important issues such as new incentives for jobs, growth and investment. it calls for an ambitious eu industrial policy that will enable the development of new products and the restructuring of industrial processes through innovation. it also promotes the fight against tax fraud, tax evasion, aggressive tax planning and the use of tax havens, which are all too common in the business world today. the area of justice and fundamental rights is based on mutual trust and the resolution proposes a holistic approach to migration and the handling of asylum applications. at the same time, it addresses the issue of the energy union with a forward-looking climate change policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this non-legislative resolution which sets out the european parliament’s recommendations for the european commission’s 2016 work programme. the text urges the commission to show a strong and clear political vision on the most pressing challenges ahead, from energy supply and climate change to job creation, migration, the rule of democracy and fundamental law. last but not least, the resolution underlines the need to fight tax fraud and evasion and calls for a comprehensive and global approach to the issues of asylum and migration. all in all, the text stresses that european citizens’ most urgent expectations should be at the core of the commission’s work programme in 2016, while ensuring that democracy and social and environmental standards of living are not compromised.
in writing. ‒ solidarity is a key value of the eu. this value should find its way into eu action in order to collectively distribute the heavy weight of the refugee crisis. such problems can only be addressed at the level of the union – that is, together.
in writing. ‒ we must act in accordance with a policy of solidarity, and it is not fair for member states to deal with the refugee problem alone. i supported the equitable distribution of refugees among member states in a spirit of solidarity and responsibility. i think solidarity and responsibility go hand in hand. this is why it is so important that all those who make decisions on how to deal with migration also recognise their responsibilities towards our common future.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this commission proposal for the relocation among eu member states of 120 000 refugees. it is just a small step in tackling the worrying refugee crisis that europe is facing, but at least it is a sign that europe is finally taking action. the measures envisaged by the council decision will serve to alleviate the huge burden of refugees that italy, hungary and greece have had to sustain in the past months. it is positive that the european parliament has given a strong signal that solidarity and cooperation among member states is crucial at this point. this non-binding decision by the european parliament has now given the green light to the council to work on the final agreement on the relocation scheme.
let me begin by congratulating both commissioner dombrovskis and mrs mikhailova on the fact that such a proposal is in parliament and that we are adopting it by an expedited procedure. greece is in a great crisis. in fact, for the first half of this year, we were really just looking at whether the greek economy would collapse, or whether greece would even leave the european community, or whether it would be excluded from the eurozone, or whether it would leave the eurozone. the stubbornness of the former finance minister and also of mr. tsipras has even taken this so far that the beginning of the tourist season in greece was marked by the closure of banks, which we have seen is a big problem and has big consequences for the greek economy. i am therefore pleased that the third memorandum has been adopted, which includes this measure to help greece implement cohesion projects. we know that cohesion projects are one of the key instruments of solidarity within the european union and that greece has great difficulties in finishing, in financing cohesion projects, so this aid of 2 billion, which is going in the direction of projects being able to be 100% co-financed on the one hand, on the other hand for pre-financing, is a very big concrete step to help greece in these difficult, difficult moments. it is important that the funds are used properly. when they have the funds... when the projects have 100% co-financing, when the projects have also the advance, there are also a lot of temptations, traps for various irregularities, malpractices, which, as we all know, have happened in greece in the past. i therefore think that the warnings of those who are responsible for public spending are very appropriate, and i hope that these funds will be well spent and that they will have an effect on the economy, on new jobs, because that is the only way greece will be able to get out of the crisis.
so the crisis that has ravaged greece in recent years has, of course, left many consequences. some quite fateful for the population of greece. and even during the crisis, there was a lot of money pouring into the european... into the greek treasury. of course, the main problem was what the money was spent on, for what purposes. and at times it seemed that the recovery of the banks took precedence over the interests and needs of the citizens. i hope that this attitude will change in the future and that the funds allocated under this third plan will actually be used for those key purposes in the cohesion, social and regional funds. it is true, of course, that greece, on the other hand, must also play its part, especially in some key reforms, including in the field of registers. i would like to draw attention to the problem of the land register, because without the correct data in the land register, there can be problems with investments, especially in infrastructure.
i am glad we agree on the important role that local authorities can play as development actors. we also agreed on ambitious development goals. the local level can only play its part under certain conditions. it is important for the achievement of the objectives that the local authority is democratically constituted, organised and financed so that it can carry out development tasks at its level competently and successfully. in this context, i welcome the emphasis on decentralisation put by the rapporteur, eleni teodoris. this makes sense if the principle of subsidiarity is applied, which has harmonised the different levels of decision-making in europe and contributed to greater efficiency in achieving development objectives. the second important emphasis i see is the principle of participatory approach. effective implementation of development policies needs to be achieved through dialogue and cooperation between public authorities, the private sector, science, civil society and citizens. as a third important element and challenge, i would mention the principle of good governance, which is not without accountability, transparency and respect for the rule of law. this would be the most effective way of approaching the 16th post-millennial goal, which is to work towards peaceful and inclusive societies. only such companies can chart the path to sustainable development.
the world's population is clearly going to grow to about nine billion by 2050, according to the dynamics that statistics show. and most of the growth is expected to be in developing countries. and that makes the role of local authorities in these countries all the more important. these already face the challenge of providing access to education, healthcare, food, housing and energy resources to a growing population, and the need for additional financial resources will increase in the coming years. and development aid certainly has a unique role to play in improving the situation in developing countries, but it is not enough on its own, and innovative sources of funding, such as blending mechanisms, need to be used. but above all, i would like to point out that even these funds, when used, cannot be left unchecked. and that is the role of the european parliament.
i'd like to talk to you today about scholarships. youth unemployment is not only a technical problem that affects the economic situation of a country, but also has major sociological implications. young people who are unemployed become socially excluded. we have a good project that can prevent that. we have a youth guarantee project and we cannot afford to fail in this project. but cooperation, inter-departmental cooperation is key, and the analysis shows that the school system, the ministries of employment and the economy are all working in their own way. scholarships are an excellent instrument with which the state can regulate future supply and demand on the labour market, and therefore the state should pay close attention to scholarship policy. it's not just about the distribution of money, it's about the strategy. the youth guarantee also provides a large amount of funding for scholarships. i therefore call on all the institutions responsible to share them in such a way that we can achieve the objectives we have set ourselves.
we needed hundreds of thousands of refugees on european soil. how many died before europe woke up? the agreement on the relocation of refugees in brussels and other measures envisaged are a positive signal. but i agree that the current situation is an important test. but i would not say for the very existence of the european union, but for its future development, for the new direction that the union will have to chart in order to remain a competitive and attractive area. in the coming months, it will become clear how member states will deal with the migration challenges in practice. it will be quite easy to see which countries are adhering to the fundamental principles of european integration and which are more inclined to reap quick profits. i looked at the slovenian centres, slovenia is well prepared and the refugees were well taken care of. the fact is that europe will change in the coming years, months. but the influx of migrants will not be the cause of these changes, quite the opposite. i believe that it will alleviate the demographic situation if we can manage migration. unfortunately, we needed binding measures to reawaken solidarity. we don't need, and we don't want, a border between our countries. the slovenian people do not want to wake up again to a barbed wire fence, as happened a few days ago on the border with hungary. it was supposed to be a test, but it was a test that caused quite a bit of unease and bitterness among the residents. we do not need new disagreements and disputes, nor the tensions in the western balkans that we have seen in recent weeks: the battles of words, the closure of borders have caused great economic damage and, above all, have created mistrust and fear among the people.
question asked by raising the blue card. - madam, we are very much involved in international affairs. there's a lot of speculation about why people run. most people are fleeing violence and war. i think that should be clear to everyone, at least when it comes to syria. do you not think that now is the moment when europe should renew its... its commitment to peace and more effectively advocate that international problems also have to be solved primarily in a peaceful way? we have to give peace a chance.
europe does not need to take responsibility and blame for the refugee problem. europe did not cause this crisis, europe is now part of the solution, and therefore europe is not sick. and in europe, there are also different situations in different countries, and so they must be respected, and in this way, with serious responsible rhetoric, we must also speak in this house. the refugee crisis is caused by the fall of dictatorships in libya, iraq, the destabilization of syria. and after the fall of these regimes, extremists came to power who have no respect for human life, no respect for thousands of years of history. so the problem is there, and that problem must first be faced and resolved in those countries, and by coordinated action, also brought to peace in those countries. on the other hand, we have to realize that we're going to have a refugee crisis in the future, because the demographics of africa are going to be the ones that cause it. so we need to have sustainable solutions. but at this moment we must take care of those who are on european soil today and help them in this difficult situation.
i read a startling statement today from the german minister of the interior, who said that he would... germany can no longer take in refugees and will start sending them back. asked where he would send refugees, he said not to countries where the level of protection of human rights and freedoms was too low - he meant hungary and greece - but to those countries where they treat refugees well, and he explicitly mentioned slovenia and croatia. both countries have very poor absorption capacities. these are small countries. and of course, if germany is going to take back most of the refugees that have arrived, most of the 1.5 million, these countries are not going to have to take in a few hundred thousand refugees each. so i'm asking you to reconsider. i believe that germany must also change its migration policy, but in an appropriate way.
in writing. ‒ today, with the support of the eu council decision, we have ensured that the signatory countries of the ilo basic convention, which is the basis of the international labour standards and is considered a human rights instrument, will have to develop a national policy and action plan for the permanent elimination of forced labour. i hope that as soon as possible all member states will ratify this document and incorporate it into their legislation, thus facilitating the fight against trafficking in human beings, ensuring the rights of victims of crime and introducing awareness-raising and education measures to prevent forced labour. and the victims will be better cared for, so i'm all for this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision authorising member states to ratify, in the interest of the european union, the 2014 protocol to the international labour organisation convention of 1930 on forced or compulsory labour, concerning matters in the field of judicial cooperation in criminal matters. it is important that appropriate judicial cooperation prevents forced or compulsory labour and thus also protects the dignity of the individual.
in writing. ‒ the convention on forced or compulsory labour is one of the eight ilo fundamental conventions on which international labour standards are based and is regarded as a human rights instrument. the protocol to the ilo convention on forced or compulsory labour (2014) aims to address shortcomings in its implementation and to make progress in preventing trafficking in human beings for the purpose of labour exploitation, in assisting victims of forced labour and in compensating them. the protocol provides that member states of the ilo are to develop a national policy and action plan for the effective and sustainable abolition of forced labour and to adopt measures to implement the provisions of the protocol in consultation with employers' and workers' organisations. it also sets out the measures to be taken by ilo member states to prevent forced labour (educating and informing people, protecting people and tackling the root causes that increase the risk of forced labour). the protocol, among other things, addresses the fight against trafficking in human beings, which is a crime that affects not only individuals but also society and the economy as a whole. i believe that ratification of the protocol is an important step, as it will facilitate the fight against trafficking in human beings. i agree that the fight against forced or compulsory labour must be effective and therefore support the ratification of the protocol.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision authorising member states to ratify, in the interest of the european union, the 2014 protocol to the international labour organisation convention of 1930 on forced or compulsory labour, concerning matters in the field of judicial cooperation in criminal matters. the international labour organization finds that nearly 21 million people worldwide are victims of forced labor, and this is very worrying. i support any activity that contributes to reducing trafficking in human beings for the purpose of forced labour and to better protecting victims of forced labour. the 2014 protocol will certainly contribute to this.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation on the draft council decision authorising member states to ratify, in the interest of the european union, the 2014 protocol to the 1930 international labour organisation convention on forced or compulsory labour, concerning matters relating to judicial cooperation in criminal matters, as the international labour organisation estimates that at least 20,9 million people worldwide are still victims of forced labour. the proposal aims to make progress in the prevention of trafficking in human beings, but also aims to protect victims of forced labour and to ensure that they receive compensation. ratification of the protocol would therefore certainly be a step forward in the fight against trafficking in human beings.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation on the ratification of the 2014 protocol to the 1930 forced labour convention, which concerns matters relating to judicial cooperation in criminal matters in cases of forced labour. the 1930 forced labour convention of the ilo is one of the ilo’s eight fundamental conventions that make up the core international labour standards, and it is considered a human rights instrument. by supporting this text member states will be enabled to ratify this 2014 protocol to the ilo forced labour convention of 1930, an important step considering that the eu is committed to promoting human rights and decent work, and to eradicating trafficking in human beings, both internally and in its external relations.
in writing. ‒ i supported the group's position and the rapporteur, mr boni, to support fully the position of the commission and the european council. regulatory action, or even a ban, on the synthetic substance 4-methylamphetamine is welcome in all 28 countries, as the number of poisonings and even deaths is rising sharply.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the introduction of control measures for 4-methylamphetamine, as the substance has been found by the european commission to cause more deaths and poisonings. it is necessary to establish appropriate controls on this substance and to implement them in all member states in order to avoid any unnecessary risk to the health of citizens.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the draft council implementing decision on the introduction of control measures for 4-methylamphetamine, as i believe that we need better data exchange, effective risk assessments and stricter controls on new psychoactive substances appearing on the black market. only then can we be on the right track to prevent drug use among eu citizens.
in writing. - it's the same story as methamphetamine. it is a dangerous synthetic substance which i believe should be banned or strictly controlled. the statistics are unreliable and that is why i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of imposing control measures on 5 (2-aminopropyl) indole, as the substance has been found by the european commission to cause more deaths and poisonings. it is necessary to establish appropriate controls on this substance and to implement them in all member states in order to avoid any unnecessary risk to the health of citizens.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the draft council implementing decision on the imposition of control measures on 5-[2-aminopropyl]indole, as i believe that we need better data exchange, effective risk assessments and stricter controls on new psychoactive substances appearing on the black market. only then can we be on the right track to prevent drug use among eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ the fourth package of hazardous chemicals was also not amended. we have therefore almost unanimously supported in parliament these solutions for a comprehensive approach by all member states to the handling of hitherto little known but extremely dangerous compounds.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of imposing control measures on 25i-nbome, ah-7921, mdpv and methoxetamine, as the substances were found by the european commission to have caused more deaths and poisonings. it is necessary to establish appropriate controls on these substances and to implement them in all member states in order to avoid unnecessary risks to the health of citizens.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the draft council implementing decision imposing control measures on 4-iodine-2,5-dimethoxy-n-{2-methoxybenzyl) phenethylamine (25i-nbome), 3,4-dichloro-n-{1-dimethylamine) cyclohexyl]methyl]benzamide (ah-7921), 3,4-methylenedioxypirovalerone (mdpv) and 2-{3-methoxyphenyl) -{2-ethylamine) cyclohexanone (methoxetamine), as i believe that we need better data exchange, effective risk assessments and stricter controls on new psychoactive substances appearing on the black market.
in writing. ‒ then there are the 4,4'-dmar and mt-45 and here too the european commission expects the continuation of restrictive measures for the whole eu territory and for all member states, which is why we in the epp group supported this.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of imposing control measures on 4,4'-dmar and mt-45, as the european commission has found that the substances have caused more deaths and poisonings. it is necessary to establish appropriate controls on these substances and to implement them in all member states in order to avoid unnecessary risks to the health of citizens.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the draft council implementing decision imposing control measures on 4-methyl-5- ((4-methylphenyl) -4,5-dihydroxazol-2-amine (4,4'-dmar) and 1-cyclohexyl-4- ((1,2-diphenylethyl) piperazine (mt-45) as i believe that we need better data exchange, effective risk assessments and stricter controls on new psychoactive substances appearing on the black market.
in writing. ‒ as so many times this year, my support is for the release of special funds from the solidarity fund, this time for bulgaria, which has been hit hard by an unusually harsh winter, and for greece, whose evros region has been hit by catastrophic floods. we have therefore allocated approximately eur 16 million to remedy these consequences.
in writing. ‒ severe winter conditions and flooding in central and western greece call for european union intervention. i supported the mobilisation of the solidarity fund for bulgaria and greece, as i believe that the european union must respond to such disasters quickly, efficiently and flexibly, and show solidarity with the people of the affected regions.
in writing. ‒ the eu solidarity fund aims to enable the union to respond quickly, efficiently and flexibly to emergencies and to show its solidarity with the people of the areas affected by disasters. in particular, bulgaria submitted an application to mobilise the solidarity fund in relation to severe winter conditions (in early february 2015 it was affected by heavy rain, snowfall, floods and landslides) and greece submitted two applications to mobilise the fund in relation to floods (in early february 2015 a wider area of eastern macedonia and thrace was affected by severe flooding, while at the same time a new wave of flooding also affected large parts of central and western greece). the fund would be mobilised to provide a financial contribution of eur 16 274 765. the commission has subsequently assessed that the applications fulfil the conditions for the granting of assistance from the fund as laid down in regulation (ec) no 2012/2002. both cases meet the eu solidarity fund criteria: the nature of the disasters themselves, their exceptional impact on the local population and economy, damage in the regions that was not limited to public infrastructure but also affected private property, business units, agricultural land and forests. that's why i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the use of the eu solidarity fund for the disasters in bulgaria and greece in 2015. bulgaria was affected by heavy rain, snow and flooding, while greece was hit by severe flooding. the european union solidarity fund was established to respond quickly and effectively to emergency situations in the member states. the european union was built on the foundations of solidarity, and i therefore support any solidarity with areas in the member states that have been affected for one reason or another.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund, in accordance with point 11 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management (accidents in bulgaria and greece in 2015), as the purpose of the solidarity fund is to enable the union to respond quickly, efficiently and flexibly to emergencies and to show its solidarity with the population of disaster-affected areas. this is unfortunately what happened in the case of greece and bulgaria. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund concerning the disasters in bulgaria and greece. the report deals with the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to support the recovery after the natural disasters that occurred in these two countries. this fund aims to give aid in the event of a major natural disaster with serious repercussions on living conditions, the natural environment or the economy and is designed to provide fast, effective and flexible emergency financial aid.
i myself therefore believe that geographical indications for non-agricultural products are useful and good, especially in terms of product transparency. in addition, they help consumers to make product choices more easily and also contribute to their product awareness. at this point, however, i would like to stress that a geographical indication does not necessarily guarantee the traceability of a product, but merely facilitates it. but to really ensure traceability, we need additional techniques. i am mainly applying this to product safety legislation and market surveillance. i also want to establish a point of importance, which is crucial for the green group. this is because the report does not define the extension of intellectual property to new products in sufficient detail. however, impact assessments should also be carried out to assess how the uniform eu introduction of geographical indications for non-agricultural products would affect the costs to the business, the state and the consumer. and because i think the report is somewhat flawed on certain points, i abstained from voting on the report.
in writing. ‒ the epp supported the possibility of extending the protection of geographical indications of the european union, which is now limited to agricultural products, to non-agricultural products. traditional products, made using traditional methods and specific local techniques, are as such part of not only the national but also the common european cultural heritage. as such, they must be preserved, because they also increase the tourist attractiveness of individual rural areas. i am confident that this will encourage the development of remote areas and ensure the preservation of old customs and traditions.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the possibility of extending the protection of european union geographical indications to non-agricultural products, as i believe that a geographical indication also benefits when used for other things, such as the labelling of different processes and techniques for the production of handmade products and the labelling of different non-agricultural products. the geographical indication represents the visibility and quality of the product or craft and contributes to the positive economic effects of the local economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the possibility of extending the geographical indications of the european union to agricultural products. the eu geographical indication for agricultural products has proved to be very good and we now need to extend it to non-agricultural products. in addition to creating 4 million new jobs, boosting prosperity and growth, and strengthening the position of smes, this move will ensure that our cultural heritage, the authenticity of our products and our traditional knowledge are preserved. at the same time, it will ensure that producers are paid fairly for the originality and the maximum supply of these products. the european commission should present legislation as soon as possible to effectively protect eu geographical indications for non-agricultural products, which will also ensure the visibility of our products in the world.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the possibility of extending the protection of european union geographical indications to non-agricultural products, as i believe it brings many benefits to the member states. the introduction of geographical indications can have a direct impact on tourism, local economic development and the preservation of cultural heritage and help to strengthen consumer confidence. currently, only agricultural products from a specific geographical origin can be granted a single protected geographical indication in the eu, and this practice is not yet known for non-agricultural products.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this non-binding resolution concerning the legal protection of geographical indications of local and regional artisanal know-how. the resolution calls on the commission to propose legislation to extend eu-wide protection of geographical indications (gi) to include regionally and locally manufactured goods and handicraft products. the aim of these provisions is, on one hand, to support the economic potential of product quality and to guarantee such quality for consumers, and on the other hand, to preserve cultural heritage and traditional know-how.
in writing. ‒ i supported the common provisions of the third memorandum, which also included a measure to help greece implement cohesion projects. we know that cohesion projects are one of the key instruments of solidarity within the european union and that greece is having great difficulty in completing and financing them, so this assistance of 2 billion, which is intended either to enable projects to be 100% co-financed or for pre-financing, is a very big concrete step to help greece in these difficult times.
in writing. ‒ greece has been significantly affected by the financial and economic crisis, as the country is facing a severe liquidity shortage and a lack of available public funds for public investments needed to promote a sustainable recovery of the economy. the proposed amendment to the regulation constitutes an exceptional measure aimed at providing immediate assistance to greece so that it can access and use the union's financial resources for cohesion policy still available from the 2007-2013 programming period before the end of 2015. the lack of liquidity and public funds in greece should not hamper investment under programmes supported by the european structural and investment funds, and i therefore voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down common provisions on the european structural and investment funds: specific measures for greece. the situation in greece is serious as the state is facing a severe liquidity shortage and a lack of available public funds for public investments. many eu-funded programmes are not implemented in greece due to lack of liquidity. the necessary measures should therefore be taken to free up the funds. as vice-chair of the committee on budgets, i welcome the fact that the commission's proposal is financially compatible with the multiannual financial framework and will not affect the budget for the period 2014-2020.
in writing. ‒ the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1303/2013 of the european parliament and of the council laying down common provisions on the european regional development fund, the european social fund, the cohesion fund, the european agricultural fund for rural development and the european maritime and fisheries fund, and on general provisions on the european regional development fund, the european social fund, the cohesion fund and the european maritime and fisheries fund as regards specific measures for greece, which i supported, reflects the rapid adoption of the measures by the council and their immediate implementation. the objective is to achieve a more efficient use of the eur 35 billion allocated to greece under the eu budget for the period 2014-2020 through one-off measures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of these exceptional measures to enable the effective use by the greek authorities of eur 35 billion, to support the boost of growth, investment and job creation in greece. this is a substantial part of our response to the financial crisis in greece: now we have to ensure that eu funding is used for investments on the ground and reaches beneficiaries as rapidly as possible, in order to create much needed jobs and economic growth. nevertheless, if greece doesn’t speed up the pace of its payment applications for the programmes concerned before the end of 2016, it runs the risk of having to reimburse the additional initial pre-financing.
in writing. ‒ almost 2900 workers have lost their jobs in the german city of bochum since a car factory there began to cut jobs because of poor results. the fact is that the automotive industry was hit hard in the last economic and financial crisis, the austerity in the state budgets further reduced people's disposable income and the situation got worse. the poorly paid 7 million will be used in germany to restructure the automotive industry in critical areas in order to preserve at least existing jobs, and that is why i am voting for this proposal.
in writing. ‒ the union has introduced legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers who have been affected by major structural changes in world trade patterns or by the consequences of the global financial and economic crisis and to assist their reintegration into the labour market. the egf shall not exceed a maximum annual amount of eur 150 million. following the redundancies of 2,881 workers at adam opel ag, germany submitted an application for a financial contribution from the egf no egf/2015/002 de/adam opel, which meets the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation. germany is to be entitled to a financial contribution of eur 6958 623 under this regulation. i agree that union financial assistance for redundant workers should be dynamic and available as quickly and as efficiently as possible, as the egf is of the utmost importance to the member states in this crisis period. however, in the case in question, there are concerns about the misuse of financial assistance and its use to meet certain obligations of the member state, which is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund: the role of adam opel, germany. the application meets the eligibility criteria for the aid and i therefore support the award of a financial contribution to germany of eur 6 958 623. the global financial and economic crisis has led to a significant decline in car sales in western europe, especially sales of small and medium-sized vehicles, including those of adam opel ag, and to a sharp decline in the number of cars registered for the first time in the member states in recent years.
in writing. ‒ i have endorsed the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, in accordance with point 13 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management (application egf/2015/002 de/adam opel, germany). the european globalisation adjustment fund provides support for workers when they lose their jobs as a result of structural changes in world trade or when large companies go out of business. this was also the case at the opel plant in germany, where 2692 workers lost their jobs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this egf application filed by the german company adam opel ag on 26 february 2015. it is worthwhile to remind that the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to provide support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation and/or as a result of a continuation of the global financial and economic crisis, and to assist them with their reintegration into the labour market. in this particular case, therefore, the egf will be mobilised in order to provide a financial contribution of eur 6 958 623 in respect of the application submitted by germany.
in writing. - very similar to the opel story is the one from belgium, only here the car manufacturer ford is on the wallpaper. here, too, the crisis has taken its toll, with a total of over 8,000 workers laid off. that is why we have supported the proposal here and have allocated aid which we hope will be aimed at restructuring and increasing competitiveness.
in writing. ‒ belgium submitted an application egf/2015/003 be/ford genk for a financial contribution from the egf towards the redundancies of 5111 workers, of which 3701 were redundant at ford genk, 1180 at 11 suppliers and manufacturers in the production phase and 11 suppliers/manufacturers in the post-production phase. the measures are expected to involve 4500 workers. the application submitted meets the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation and belgium is therefore eligible for a financial contribution of eur 6 268 564 (total cost of eur 10 447 607). ford genk was the largest employer in the province of limburg and the redundancies caused considerable damage to the limburg economy. more than 8000 jobs were lost, with the majority of the workers being eu citizens aged between 30 and 54. the situation resulted in an increase in the unemployment rate of 1,82 percentage points and a decrease in gdp of 2,62,9 percent. since the union has put in place appropriate instruments to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of the global financial and economic crisis and to assist their reintegration into the labour market, and belgium fulfils the conditions for the payment of the financial contribution, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report on the proposal for a decision.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund: the role of belgium - ford genk. ford genk, the largest employer in the province of limburg in belgium, had to lay off more than 8000 employees as a result of major structural changes in world trade flows. this led to the final closure of the company at the end of 2014. since the second application by ford genk meets the eligibility criteria, i also supported the report.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, in accordance with point 13 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management (belgium egf/2015/003 be/ford genk). the european globalisation adjustment fund provides support for workers when they lose their jobs as a result of structural changes in world trade, or when firms close down or relocate their production. this was also the case with the ford car plant in belgium. as many as 4500 workers will be more easily reintegrated into the labour market with the help of european globalisation adjustment fund funding.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this egf application filed on 24 march 2015 by ford genk, the largest employer in the belgian province of limburg. it is worthwhile to remind that the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to provide support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation and/or as a result of a continuation of the global financial and economic crisis, and to assist them with their reintegration into the labour market. in this particular case, therefore, the egf will be mobilised in order to provide a financial contribution of eur 6 268 564 in respect of the application submitted by the belgian authorities.
in writing. ‒ the story of the italian national carrier alitalia is also somewhat familiar to us slovenians. our national carrier adria airways has also been facing serious problems for years. the italians, after a great deal of hard work, have found a strong strategic partner for a society that is exhausted and still operating in this way. the money from the fund will be used to the maximum extent for the retraining and job search of surplus workers, especially those over 50 years of age, who are even more difficult to employ today.
in writing. ‒ the egf, which has a maximum annual budget of eur 150 million, provides financial assistance in cases where major structural changes in world trade flows or the global financial and economic crisis lead to the dismissal of more than 500 workers. the international air transport market has been affected by serious economic disturbances. italy submitted its application for a financial contribution from the egf for 1249 redundant workers in the alitalia group. the application fulfils the criteria to be eligible for financial assistance under the egf regulation of eur 1 414 848. since financial assistance is essential to successfully tackle the current financial and economic crisis and since i agree that the specific case meets the conditions and is eligible for a financial contribution, i supported the report on the draft decision.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund: alitalia - italy. the alitalia group has made redundancies of 1249 workers as a result of the financial and economic crisis and economic disruption such as the decline in the eu's air transport market share. unfortunately, the financial contribution of eur 1 414 848 will benefit only a small proportion of the workers made redundant, 184 out of a total of 1249 workers.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, in accordance with point 13 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management (application egf/2015/004 it/alitalia, italy). the european globalisation adjustment fund provides support for workers who lose their jobs as a result of structural changes in world trade patterns or as a result of the closure of firms or the relocation of their production. the italian airline has laid off 1200 people, mainly due to a reduction in its market share in international passenger air transport. the european globalisation adjustment fund will help 184 workers to re-enter the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this egf application filed on 24 march 2015 by the italian gruppo alitalia, following 1 249 redundancies caused mainly by the huge increase in the number of passengers carried by gulf and turkish carriers. it is worthwhile to remind that the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to provide support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation and/or as a result of a continuation of the global financial and economic crisis, and to assist them with their reintegration into the labour market. in this particular case, therefore, the egf will be mobilised in order to provide a financial contribution of eur 1 414 848 in respect of the application submitted by italy.
in writing. ‒ how many times have we in slovenia stressed that the local and regional level must also participate in economic development? it is closer to the citizens, it is more accountable and it keeps in touch with what people really want. good governance at local level is the key to sustainable development, and the principle of subsidiarity is one of those things that all national governments should respect to the greatest extent possible. the report strongly supports this approach and i was happy to support it. but i would be glad if someone who is talking about changes in local government in slovenia today would read this report.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report because it supports the role of local authorities as development actors. however, the local level can only play its role under certain conditions. it is important for the achievement of the objectives that the local authority is democratically constituted and is organised and financed in such a way that it can carry out development tasks at its level competently and effectively. in this respect, i welcome the rapporteur's emphasis on decentralisation. this makes sense if the principle of subsidiarity is applied, which has harmonised the different levels of decision-making in europe and contributed to greater efficiency in achieving development objectives. another important emphasis i see is the principle of participatory approach. the third important element and challenge i see is the principle of good governance, which is not without accountability, transparency and respect for the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ local authorities are key state and institutional actors in local governance. the emergence of direct democracy and sustainable territorial development based on the participation of the local community and its democratic will will play a central role in the achievement of the objectives of the post-2015 development agenda. the new global sustainable development framework offers an opportunity to ensure the broad involvement of civil society organisations, local authorities and national parliaments. strengthening the role of local authorities and civil society organisations is essential to ensure sound, transparent and accountable governance. i believe that local authorities in developing countries have a very important role to play and i agree that in areas such as training and human resources, partnership agreements need to be concluded between local authorities in eu member states and local authorities in developing countries. i also believe that there is a need to ensure a fairer transfer of funds from the national level to the subregions, cities and municipalities and that part of the european budgetary support should be allocated to the financing of local authorities. as local authorities are essential for the definition, planning and achievement of development goals and as such are a strong link between the community and the national and global goals of the post-2015 development agenda, i supported the report on the role of local authorities in developing countries in development cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the role of local authorities in developing countries in development cooperation. local authorities are important actors that can make a significant contribution to both the establishment and implementation of effective development policies, the eradication of poverty and the guarantee of a life in dignity for all. we need good cooperation between the states and local authorities, as local authorities are an important factor of regional stability. i would like to stress that if we solve the problems on the ground, the european union will also have fewer problems, as we can see in the case of the flows of migrants that we have been facing recently.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the role of local authorities in developing countries in development cooperation, as it contributes to sustainable development and effective governance at local level. i believe that the conditions for inclusive, responsive and efficient development processes need to be created.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report concerning the role of local authorities in developing countries. local authorities are key actors in development assistance and i believe their participation in the design and implementation of european development policy should be strengthened. the strategic planning at national and local level is absolutely essential to the promotion and integration of the three main dimensions of development: the social, economic and environmental dimensions. i also welcome the spread of decentralised development cooperation initiatives and the use of mechanisms for cooperation among cities and i agree with the need to allocate additional resources to strengthening the capacities of decentralised authorities so that they can provide high-quality public services, guarantee equality of opportunity and build social cohesion.
in writing. i consider it inadmissible that volkswagen has infringed the provisions on maximum values for car exhaust gases. you wouldn't expect that from a german company with such a reputation, especially since it's part of an industry that has helped shape standards, but the desire for profit must have been felt even in so-called reputable corporations. it's certainly not a good way forward, and it's hard to restore a reputation after a scandal of this magnitude, and an event of this magnitude inadvertently casts a shadow over the entire automotive industry. unfortunately, as usual, consumers will 'draw again' in the shortest possible time, which is particularly unacceptable and distressing to me as a member of the ep's committee on the internal market and consumer protection. you imagine that as a sophisticated european, you buy a car in good faith, that everything in the technical specs is true, but it turns out that it's not. this is by no means just a question of penalties for the corporation, but also a question of who will reimburse consumers for the costs of apparently overpriced standards that did not correspond to the actual situation. the most important role now is for european regulators to prepare the relevant measures to ensure that this cannot happen again.
so this is a subject that we have to be very careful about at all times. the abolition of the death penalty is a civilization achievement that must be defended at all costs. and here the european union can take great pride, because we are defending the absolute right to life. of course, countries that have the death penalty have some kind of behavior that is worthy of our condemnation. and i think that the european union and the european parliament, which can exert so-called political pressure on countries that have the death penalty, are also increasing that political pressure. and i think it is right that when the european union is also negotiating various trade agreements with countries that have the death penalty, it should specifically point out this as a strong argument that trade agreements with such countries should not be signed.
the proposal for this regulation is timely and, as the commissioner said, can also mean effective access to justice. of course, citizens must not be put in such circumstances as to discourage them from protecting their rights, and this regulation is certainly a step forward. it is important, above all, to ensure that the costs are proportionate, and that, of course, the costs which are normally incurred by individual countries are also taken into account in these disputes. at the same time, we can of course say that we regret that this regulation does not apply to labour law, particularly because there are many cases where employers do not pay workers wages, contributions and, of course, those taxes that are important for their income, and of course also for cross-border online fraud, where this procedure can of course encourage people to be able to exercise their rights in these procedures.
syria is a war of many wars. this is not just a political and economic power play in syria and the region, it's also a clash of civilizations and a religious war. we are at war and we are co-responsible for the vulnerable and persecuted people in syria as well as for the future of our own people. the european union, with all its political, economic, cultural and other potentials, cannot afford to be a mere reserve player or observer. our ambition must be to establish peace in a pragmatic and inclusive way with all who should be sitting at the table. this requires a clear strategy and political will that takes the big picture into account. we're not going to solve this problem by each of us shooting at our own target or just running a charity race. the more successful we are in addressing the root problem, the less we will experience consequences at home.
in syria, as we know, there's been a war going on for four years, a war that has taken a huge toll, and it's only now that the flood of refugees into europe has finally overwhelmed us with the scale of this war and the global impact of this war. the syrian test site is a practical example of how foreign policy should not be conducted, an example of how, after the destruction of iraq, we have made space for terrorist groups, space for barbaric groups that do not respect the fundamental values of human life or the millenary cultural heritage. so it is high time that the big players, all of them, from america, the european union, russia, saudi arabia, iran, turkey, stop playing the big interest game, but realize their responsibility and ensure stability and peace in this part of the world, otherwise this terrorism will spread further around the world.
turkey is a strategic partner of europe and a country that is shouldering the enormous burden of the current refugee crisis. the country's internal political situation is sensitive, and the public has been shocked by the footage of the turkish police brutalizing the kurds. the entire middle east is unstable. cooperation with turkey is therefore essential. turkey is to receive up to eur 1 billion in aid to help provide for the refugees. the aid is foreseen for lebanon, jordan, iraq. we expect ankara to help mitigate the crisis: by registering migrants, by integrating them into society, by returning illegal migrants to their countries, by fighting criminal organisations. we have a common challenge with turkey, ladies and gentlemen, but we also have a common european future. so i hope that the state will also take reforms very seriously, especially when it comes to democracy, especially when it comes to freedom of the media and the rule of law.
turkey, which respects democratic values at home and in its regional environment, is needed as a partner in the refugee crisis more than ever. we greatly appreciate the contribution turkey is making to overcoming the consequences of the tragedy in syria by hosting the unfortunate syrian masses and in the fight against terrorists. we must re-establish the interest of turkey, a candidate country, in the european union and take decisive steps to open and close some negotiating chapters. our attitude towards turkey must be both open and critical. we want more democracy and more freedom for all who live in this country, a clear separation of state functions, an end to the suppression of the media and the opposition and the continuation of internal dialogue. such a turkey should be welcomed not only as a partner in difficult situations but also as a future member of the european union. finally, i would like to wish a speedy recovery to mrs. mogherini. we miss her.
in writing. ‒ i supported the 2017 part-session timetable of parliament as it is a technical report that will allow the smooth running of our work and the work of the european parliament as a whole.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2017 calendar of ep part-sessions to be held in brussels and strasbourg. it is just a formal procedure to adopt the dates on which the part-sessions will be held and i did not have any objections against the suggested dates.
in writing. ‒ as one of the countries of north africa and thus virtually the southern neighbour of the european union, tunisia is of great importance for future developments in the mediterranean. in the light of the migration crisis we are facing, it is very important that we improve relations and give these countries much more attention. tunisia, in particular, has been the most successful in moving into a state of normality, one might even say democracy. the signing of the euro-mediterranean agreement will improve these good relations, which should be followed by the other countries of north africa. my full support for this recommendation.
in writing. ‒ tunisia is the only country in the middle east and north africa region to have survived the social and political experiment of the arab spring. however, in recent years, the tunisian economy has suffered a significant setback, especially in trade with europe, which remains its main partner. i agree that the question of tunisia should become one of the eu's priorities, which would require the eu to make concrete economic and investment commitments aimed at supporting the fragile process of democratic transition. the eu should increase cooperation in the fields of university education, general education, training and youth (e.g. erasmus+), and tunisia should also have the opportunity to join the missions and activities of the common security and defence policy. since tunisia has significant long-term growth potential and since the implementation of the expected reforms, in conjunction with existing resources such as human resources and an open economy, will unlock this potential and stimulate its economy in a more sustainable and inclusive way, i supported the recommendation for a draft decision.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement on the general principles for the participation of tunisia in union programmes. i support the strengthening of economic and investment cooperation between the european union and tunisia, which has great potential for growth, but unfortunately the tunisian economy has been in decline in recent years. by strengthening cooperation in both the economic and educational fields, it will contribute to greater stability in the region as a whole, which is also in the interest of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i support the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement on the general principles for the participation of tunisia in union programmes, as i believe that the eu must also deepen its cooperation with tunisia in order to make tunisia's transition to democracy and reforms a success. the arab spring has left a deep impression on many countries, but tunisia still seems to hold out hope. the eu has an important role to play in this respect, as it can make a significant contribution to tunisia's economic and social development.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement on the general principles for the participation of tunisia in union programmes. as part of the european neighbourhood policy, the gradual opening-up of certain union programmes and agencies to the participation of enp partner countries represents one of many measures to promote reform, modernisation and transition in the european union’s neighbourhood. tunisia expressed its interest in participating in the broad range of programmes open to partner countries, and in order to enhance international cooperation i think it is very important to set up a framework for this inclusion in the programme.
in writing. ‒ in crossborder small claims, the main objective is to take advantage of the benefits offered by the eu and the common market and, consequently, to reduce the cost of settling such claims significantly. it is the small businesses, but also the consumers, who will benefit most. it is important above all to reduce the duration of the dispute, which sometimes lasted on average two years, to a few months. the epp has been an active participant in the trilogue and has also succeeded in highlighting its priorities in terms of promoting the development of the small economy, which is why i support this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european small claims procedure and the european order for payment. simplifying and speeding up procedures for minor cross-border disputes is one of the measures that will facilitate cross-border business cooperation within the european union and is aimed at a more integrated internal market. the measure is particularly beneficial for small and medium-sized enterprises.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the single european small claims procedure is to speed up, simplify and reduce the costs of litigation in small claims involving a cross-border element and to facilitate access to justice. it also facilitates enforcement by eliminating intermediate recognition and enforcement procedures in member states other than the member state of origin. the european small claims procedure leads to the issue of a european enforcement order which is enforceable in the member states without the need for a declaration of enforceability in each individual country of enforcement. after five years of application of the regulation, the commission has put forward proposals to improve the procedure and to facilitate the achievement of the objectives of the regulation. the commission therefore proposes, inter alia, to increase the value ceiling for small claims from eur 2000 to eur 10 000, to broaden the definition of a crossborder case, to further reduce the costs and duration of the procedure and to fix a maximum amount of court fees (10% of the value of the claim). i consider the european small claims procedure and the european order for payment procedure to be important instruments in european civil procedural law which facilitate and simplify the resolution of disputes with a cross-border element and ensure access to justice. the amendments proposed by the commission will further improve and modernise the functioning of the procedure, which is why i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european small claims procedure and the european order for payment. with the growing cross-border trade in the european union, it is essential to have quick and appropriate mechanisms for resolving small claims. this applies to individuals as well as to smes. five years have passed since the introduction of the european small claims procedure, which we set up as an alternative to the procedures existing under the laws of the member states, and i therefore support improving the procedure. the solution is to move towards efficient, fast and inexpensive dispute resolution. the threshold for applications is increased from eur 2000 to eur 5000 for individuals and eur 10000 for smes. the increase in the threshold will broaden the pool of people and businesses using the european small claims procedure and citizens will be able to resolve their disputes quickly and cheaply.
in writing. ‒ report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 861/2007 of the european parliament and of the council of 11 july 2007 establishing a european small claims procedure and regulation (ec) no 1896/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 12 december 2006 establishing a european order for payment procedure i supported it as it simplifies and speeds up procedures relating to cross-border small claims disputes and consequently also reduces costs. this will make it easier for consumers and smes to assert their claims and ensure their access to justice.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report at first reading, agreed with the council, which aims at boosting europe’s economy by setting an appropriate legal framework that will boost cross-border business activities eu-wide. the idea behind it is to encourage smes to undertake cross-border business, as the provisions contained in the text have the objective, among other things, to facilitate the litigation procedure. this procedure would now be available for more cases and the proposal also aims at ensuring that court fees are proportionate. the use of distance communication technology in court cases would be encouraged and practical assistance would be more easily and readily available.
in writing. ‒ the area of emission controls for medium combustion plants has so far been left to the legislators in the member states. slovenia has already adopted appropriate and fairly strict regulations in this area. it seems appropriate to adopt similar rules for all member states by introducing a european directive. in addition to regulating emissions, more efforts could be made to develop and subsidize district heating systems based on medium combustion plants. such systems, such as biomass boilers, can make a significant contribution to cleaner air, as they are disproportionately cleaner and healthier than private and small combustion plants, precisely because of their limited emissions. the main reason for adopting the proposed directive is, of course, the desire to have a cleaner environment and thus the health and well-being of all european citizens. that is why i support the report.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on limiting emissions of pollutants from medium combustion plants into the air, because it deals with an area of emissions that is still unregulated. air pollution is the source of many respiratory diseases, and i believe that emissions should be limited.
in writing. ‒ emissions of air pollutants from medium combustion plants, of which there are around 150,000 in the eu, are currently not regulated at eu level (small combustion plants are regulated by directive 2009/125/ec and large combustion plants by directive 2010/75/eu). such combustion plants are used in several sectors (electricity generation, domestic heating and cooling, heat/steam production for industrial processes) and are an important source of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and dust emissions. the commission therefore proposed the establishment of limit values for new and existing installations which would contribute significantly to the reduction of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and dust pollution. it also set up a simple registration procedure, which would make a significant contribution to meeting member states' emission reduction commitments and prevent any trade-offs between air quality and increased use of biomass that would otherwise lead to higher air pollution. i agree that the proposed amendments would improve the chances of realistic implementation of the directive and thus contribute to improving air quality in the eu without undue burden on society and the economy, so i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a report on limiting emissions of certain pollutants from medium combustion plants into the air. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. this will preserve and improve air quality and protect citizens from further air pollution. this improves air quality without imposing excessive burdens on the actors involved. this directive is a good combination of environmental protection, economic needs and social requirements that can be implemented without imposing an excessive additional burden on operators and end-users.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the air from medium combustion plants, as it seeks to limit sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxide in the eu for emissions from medium combustion plants. this includes electric generators and heating systems for domestic, residential or industrial buildings. in areas where emissions from these plants are in breach of eu air quality standards, it is appropriate to invite eu member states to assess for themselves whether stricter restrictions are necessary.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the air, in order to achieve the improvement of air quality, with proper safeguards for the operation of existing plants. the envisaged legislation does not prevent member states from enforcing tougher standards than are required by the directive, and in some areas national authorities would be required to assess whether to introduce stricter limits. this legislation fills a legislative gap and also addresses the ‘medium’ combustion plants in the eu, i.e. those with a thermal input rated between 1 and 50 mw. they are used for a wide variety of applications, such as electricity generation, domestic or residential heating and cooling and providing heat or vapour for industrial processes.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on caseins and caseinates for human consumption because i believe that food control is a key task, as it directly affects food safety and thus human health.
in writing. ‒ casein is the main protein in ruminant milk (e.g. cow's milk) and gives a firm consistency to curds, cheese and other dairy products. caseinates are derivatives of caseins and are mainly used in cheese production, protein supplements and coffee powder creams. dairy products may cause allergies or hypersensitivity and therefore caseins and caseinates should be labelled as 'dairy proteins' in animals. the commission proposal of 2014 calls for the harmonisation of the powers conferred on the commission, the adaptation of the existing provisions, the further development of food law and the amendment of the compositional requirements for edible caseins in line with the international standard. in particular, it proposes setting the maximum moisture content for edible caseins at 12% (instead of 10%) and the maximum milk fat content for edible casein acids at 2% (instead of 2,5%). i agree that the proposal should be seen in the context of the general food law, which aims to ensure the free flow of safe and health-friendly food, thus making a significant contribution to the health and well-being of citizens. it is necessary to ensure that consumers, in particular those with food allergies or sensitivities, are informed about the food they consume and are able to make informed choices. that is why i supported the report on the proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to caseins and caseinates for human consumption. the report aims to align the european commission's requirements with various other provisions governing caseins and caseinates for human consumption. in doing so, it shall take into account legislation adopted in the meantime. i supported the report because it will protect the european consumer and his health. in particular, caseins and caseinates for human consumption will have to be appropriately labelled on the packaging, otherwise these products will not be allowed to be placed on the market or used in the preparation of food. this means that the end-user will be able to decide what to consume based on clear information.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to caseins and caseinates for human consumption and repealing council directive 83/417/eec, as i believe that the changes introduced by the proposal for a directive are positive, as they will bring us closer to international standards. however, further adaptation of the existing provisions will be necessary in the future to further develop legislation in the area of food law.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a directive concerning caseins and caseinates intended for human consumption. the aim of the directive would be to achieve greater safety and regulation when it comes to food safety. i believe that specific rules should ensure that clear information is provided for such products in order, on the one hand, to make available to food business operators all the information they need for the labelling of the final products, for example when it comes to allergens, and, on the other hand, to avoid that these products are confused with similar products not meant or not suitable for human consumption. the directive would also ensure that terminology is in line with the codex standard for edible casein products.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has made considerable progress in this area in the basic text of the european commission's proposal to align the financial regulation with the provisions of the new directives on public procurement and on the award of concession contracts. this is not a question of interfering with the general rules on public procurement and concessions, but of introducing an exception in the field of civil missions of the common security and defence policy, where we simply cannot afford to be late. these missions are often carried out in crisis areas and in crisis situations, where the execution of a conventional public contract can take up to six months to take over the goods, which is meaningless in this case. however, there is a need for a certain degree of caution, since we are dealing with sensitive material, and i therefore support the european parliament's remarks on this point.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the union. the report brings the financial regulation into line with the provisions of the new directives on public procurement and on the award of concession contracts. this will reduce the significant delays in the procurement of the common security and defence policy. as an alternate member of the committee on budgetary control, i also support the amendments proposed by the committee, which in its proposals recalls that the eu must fight tax fraud and tax evasion in order to protect its financial interests.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu, euratom) no 966/2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the union, as it aligns the financial regulation with the provisions of the new directives on public procurement and on the award of concession contracts. the proposal contains an amendment to article 190 on public procurement for external actions. the mandatory application of the eu general procurement rules to crisis management measures under the common foreign and security policy, in particular to the civilian missions of the common security and defence policy, causes significant delays in the procurement of essential equipment and services, which has a very negative impact on the implementation of the missions. it is therefore appropriate to simplify procedures and to increase efficiency in the application of existing rules.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this legislative report on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the union. the regulation lays down the rules for the establishment and the implementation of the general budget of the european union and it also contains rules on public procurement. it respects the fundamental rights and observes the principles enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, in particular the need to ensure the legality and proportionality of sanctions, therefore i think it is needed in order to achieve greater transparency and accountability regarding financial allocations.
in writing. inequality in the employment of women persists in the union and globally, despite some positive measures we have taken to address this phenomenon. i believe that the european parliament should promote all measures that go towards equality and gender equality, because despite their abilities, talents and skills, women do not in practice achieve the same pay as men in equivalent occupational positions. gender inequalities arise from the reconciliation of family and professional life. this is also reflected in the time they leave the labour market or retire, putting women at a disadvantage. women are still traditionally those who are more stressed both psychologically and in terms of time management, as they usually also carry out informal household tasks. if there were real equality between men and women in the labour market, we could also, as a society, tap the many potentials of both genders and this would, in turn, lead to higher gdp growth in all individual member states and in the eu as a whole. this is why we must continue to advocate for the concept of gender equality and equal treatment in employment, for pay transparency and for better conditions for reconciling family and professional life. only then will the eu be able to put into practice the principles to which it has committed itself in the treaty establishing the union.
in writing. ‒ the new directive on payment services in the internal market is a far-reaching change that is difficult to summarise. the most important are ensuring competitiveness for all categories of payment service providers, ensuring a single market for all retail payments, reducing the costs of intra-eu payments, maintaining stronger control over new payment products and, of course, ensuring the continuous protection of the consumer and his rights in payment transactions. the rapporteur, who is from the epp group, is satisfied with the final result and is convinced that this will not only increase competitiveness but also protect consumers through greater transparency, which is why i support the proposal for a directive.
in writing. ‒ the retail payment services market is very dynamic and innovative. 34% of eu citizens shop almost exclusively online. the regulation also regulates online payment services, which is very useful as the vast majority of people today use smartphones to pay online. the final agreement on the amendment of the regulation will also make it possible to reduce the percentage of fraud. consumers will be guaranteed lower costs for using online payments and better and more extensive protection. the new directive will increase competitiveness and thus reduce the price of services for consumers. the increasing use of electronic transactions in the area of payment transactions has made a revision of the regulation necessary and will now suffice to change this area. i think we have got a good legislative text and we can be satisfied with the final result of the negotiations with the council. for the reasons set out above, i supported the amendment of directives 2002/65/ec, 2009/110/ec and 2013/36/eu and regulation (eu) no 1093/2010 and the repeal of directive 2007/64/ec.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on payment services in the internal market. we need to make electronic transactions more efficient, especially crossborder transactions within the european union, while doing everything we can to protect consumers. it is very difficult to imagine today's economy without electronic transactions, and we need legal principles that regulate these relationships precisely and clearly. this report will also contribute to the creation of a single market in the european union.
in writing. ‒ i supported the additional report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on payment services in the internal market, amending directives 2002/65/ec, 2013/36/eu and 2009/110/ec and repealing directive 2007/64/ec, as i consider it to be of the utmost importance for the further development of the internal market and to bring benefits to eu citizens. the proposal for a directive will further strengthen secure electronic payments and will also strengthen controls to prevent crime and misuse of data.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a directive to update eu rules on payment services, which will cut the cost of paying bills by enabling new market players to use mobile and online tools to make payments on customers’ behalf. the reason i supported the report is that it aims to achieve greater safety by laying down data protection and liability rules for all online payment service providers. it also makes for much greater convenience as, from now on, a payer using an online account will have the right to use payment software, devices and applications provided by an authorised third party and to have payments executed on his or her behalf by that provider.
in writing. - i did not support the resolution in accordance with the opinion of our rapporteur. it is inappropriate to adopt a resolution on the case of one country only, when we know that the problem of abuse in the use of risky financial instruments is much wider and there was no hearing for further elaboration. in slovenia, too, people were misled when they bought subordinated bonds and lost their entire investment as part of the bank rescue. the problem is not the financial instrument, but the poor or lack of information of individuals. that is why we need a comprehensive solution in this area, not just individual country resolutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on mortgage legislation and risk finance in the eu in the case of spain. this is a national issue, a national problem, which has been transferred to the european union. tragic personal problems related to mortgages, evictions and other related matters are the responsibility of the member states and i do not agree that this should be transferred to the european level. i see no reason why the european parliament should call on the spanish government to use all the tools at its disposal to find a solution to the situation.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on mortgage legislation and risky financial instruments in the eu. i believe that the case of spain is not an isolated one. the protection of our citizens is essential, and the provision of accurate information is also crucial, especially when it comes to the importance of personal investment. at eu level, the objective remains to increase transparency on the general problem of bad banking practices and risky financial instruments, and proposals in this direction are welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution about mortgage legislation and risky financial instruments in the eu, with particular reference to the case of spain. legislation on mortgage banking differs across the eu, resulting in different levels of consumer protection and debt settlement conditions. a number of abusive clauses and practices in the spanish mortgage sector have been identified by national and european courts. civil society in spain has also been protesting against hundreds of thousands of evictions, abusive terms in mortgage contracts and a lack of protection for borrowers. it is necessary to improve the situation in spain and, at the same time, all member states should learn something from this case. with the text we call on the commission closely to monitor the effective implementation of the new measures adopted by the spanish government; to launch information campaigns on financial products; to enhance financial literacy through education, in order to ensure that european citizens are better informed about the risks involved when subscribing to financial products; and to share best practices that enhance the protection of citizens in financial difficulty. basic financial education should be considered as a complementary asset for avoiding the consequences of over-indebtedness and should help to protect european citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the death penalty because the abolition of the death penalty worldwide is one of the main objectives of the european union's human rights policy and because the death penalty is incompatible with the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights on which the european union is founded.
in writing. ‒ it is a worrying fact that in the last decade, the number of countries that have adopted laws allowing the death penalty for drug-related offences has increased. the very fact that 22 countries carried out executions and that at least 2466 people were sentenced to death in 2014 is a cause for concern. as many as 33 countries worldwide have the death penalty for any drug-related offence, resulting in 1,000 executions annually. many european citizens face the death penalty in third world countries, mainly for alleged drug-related crimes. the international covenant on civil and political rights provides, inter alia, that the death penalty should be applied only to the most serious crimes and not to drug-related crimes. i would like to emphasise here that the abolition of the death penalty contributes to a better respect for human dignity. in addition, i would like to express my concern about the use of the death penalty against minors and persons with any mental or intellectual disabilities. such practices must be stopped immediately as they violate international human rights. for the reasons stated above, i supported the resolution and voted in favour of its adoption.
in writing. - i voted for the death penalty resolution. the abolition of the death penalty in the european union is a civilization achievement and one of the eu's main human rights objectives. i support the resolution condemning the death penalty and strongly support the introduction of a moratorium as a step towards its abolition. the abolition of the death penalty worldwide will contribute to the promotion of human dignity. i also share the view that the death penalty is absolutely incompatible with respect for human dignity and human rights, freedom, democracy and the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the death penalty, as i condemn the use of the death penalty as a form of punishment. i don't think the death penalty has any effect on deterring crime or drug trafficking. in 2014, at least 2,466 people in 55 countries were sentenced to death. as the percentage increases on an annual basis, it is right that the european parliament should also address this issue.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which condemns the use of the death penalty. europe needs to set up an example by sharing its democratic principles and firmly calling for an end to the inhuman practice of the death penalty around the world. the ultimate goal is to achieve the total abolition of the death penalty, not only in europe – where belarus remains the last country to retain and apply capital punishment – but also in the united states, which should commit to abolishing this terrible practice as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the experience gained from the red mud disaster in relation to the accident in hungary. the experience gained from this disaster must be put to good use to prevent similar future accidents and the knowledge gained from disaster management must be used by the authorities to develop appropriate rules and legislation to prevent similar events in the future.
in writing. ‒ on 4 october 2010, a sewage treatment plant in hungary leaked, releasing almost one million cubic metres of highly alkaline red sludge (considered hazardous waste under council directive 91/689/eec), flooding several villages, killing 10 people and injuring nearly 150. the spill also caused pollution of a large area, including four natura 2000 sites. the draft resolution concludes that the red mud disaster was the most serious industrial disaster in hungary and that it can be attributed to poor implementation of eu laws, poor inspections and gaps in relevant eu legislation. the motion for a resolution calls on all member states with red mud tanks to check whether this has been correctly categorised as hazardous and to correct as soon as possible any permits based on the incorrect categorisation. i agree that a strong focus on accident prevention is essential, as this is not an isolated case of this type of environmental disaster. member states should step up their efforts to fully implement and correctly apply all relevant eu legislation. i also believe that research and development in the field of hazardous waste prevention and treatment should be strengthened. that is why i voted in favour of the draft resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a resolution on the lessons learned from the red mud disaster, five years after the accident in hungary. we have to learn from every history. we have to pull out the positives and the negatives and make a decision not to do it again. if we have learned nothing from history, we will have to live it again. the red mud disaster in hungary five years ago reminds us that we need to do better in implementing relevant eu laws, including inspection. as the resolution rightly notes, no gaps in this area have been closed in the five years since. i support the call on the commission and the member states to step up their efforts to ensure the full implementation and correct application of all relevant eu legislation and all relevant international conventions.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the lessons learned from the red mud disaster after the accident in hungary, as i believe that the disaster in hungary in 2010, when a waste water collection tank leaked, releasing almost one million cubic metres of highly alkaline red mud, reminded us of the importance of monitoring such installations. each member state must therefore strengthen its control and prevention mechanisms to prevent similar disasters.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which calls on the commission and the member states to step up their efforts to ensure the full implementation and proper application of all relevant eu legislation and all relevant international conventions with regard not only to aluminium production and the environmentally sound management of red mud but also to the environmentally sound management of hazardous waste in general. on 4 october 2010, the collapse of a waste reservoir in hungary released almost one million cubic metres of highly alkaline red mud. it flooded several villages, killed 10 people, injured almost 150 and polluted vast areas of land. the resolution also commemorates the victims on the occasion of the fifth anniversary of this tragic event, and supporting it is also an acknowledgement that much more should be done in environmental disaster prevention and management.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the revision of the eu action plan on gender equality and the empowerment of women in development, as i believe that in some areas ineffective or less effective measures and activities should be replaced by better measures that will contribute to the empowerment of women in development.
in writing. ‒ the european union is working to break the vicious circle of gender discrimination. this includes supporting partner countries in creating a more favourable environment for the full realisation of the rights of girls and women and in achieving long-term improvements in gender equality. strive for a world where all the rights of girls and women are asserted, valued and respected, and where everyone has the opportunity to fulfil their potential and contribute to a fairer society. the eu has adopted the first action plan on this issue and a second is now under way. the eu focuses on four key areas: ensuring the physical and psychological integrity of girls and women; promoting economic and social rights; strengthening the participation and voice of girls and women; and steering the activities of the commission and the european external action service towards more effective fulfilment of eu commitments. i supported the proposed resolution as it addresses the key issues of eu action in the area of gender equality and women's empowerment and development.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the revision of the eu action plan on gender equality and the empowerment of women in development. the main purpose of this report is to make money available to developing countries that are ready to embrace the european union's ideas on gender equality. i myself support the principle of equality between the sexes and i am against any discrimination on grounds of sex, but the report also talks about certain rights that are supposed to be human rights, which i do not agree with. it gives you the feeling that they want to impose our views on developing countries in exchange for money.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the motion for a resolution on the revision of the eu action plan on gender equality and the empowerment of women in development. i am in favour of equality for women and their role in this development, but unfortunately the motion for a resolution contains too many elements which seek to promote gender ideology. it is for this reason that i believe that the original purpose of the resolution, namely the objective of achieving gender equality and the empowerment of women in development, is losing its weight.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution concerning the renewal of the eu action plan on gender equality and women’s empowerment (gap) in the context of development cooperation. there is a need for a renewed political commitment by the eeas and the commission to improve performance, and it is important that the main recommendations of the evaluation are implemented in the successor to the current gap, starting with a fully-fledged management response. i also agree that gap ii should focus on all aspects of eu external policy – development cooperation, humanitarian aid, trade, human rights and foreign affairs, migration and asylum – in line with with development principles, and that it should apply to developing, neighbourhood and enlargement countries alike. this is also a sign of stepping up and better coordinating efforts by the eu and its member states in the area of gender equality and women’s empowerment. much has been achieved in this field already, but more must be done in the future, including in terms of implementation.
in writing. ‒ i agree that the pay gap between men and women for equal work needs to be bridged and the discrepancies that are occurring in this area need to be addressed, but i do not agree with all the ways in which this resolution has been included, which is why i abstained in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ equal treatment for men and women is one of the fundamental principles of eu law. the amended directive aims to bring eu legislation in this area more in line with the case law of the court of justice of the eu and to simplify and modernise relevant equality legislation at national level, thus contributing to the better position of women in the labour market (up to 2014, the proportion of women in senior management positions in companies operating in the eu was below 18%). some innovations have been introduced, such as the implementation of the principle of equal opportunities, the definition of the concept of indirect discrimination and protection against discrimination on grounds of gender reassignment. economic independence is a prerequisite for european citizens, both women and men, to be in control of their lives and to be able to make life decisions. i therefore agree that the correct application and enforcement of the equal pay rules (directive 2006/54/ec) is a key challenge for all member states. since greater equality between men and women benefits society and the economy, and reducing the gender pay gap contributes to poverty reduction and is of paramount importance for employment growth, competitiveness and economic recovery, and since the pay gap has a significant impact on the living conditions and life chances of many european families, i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on equal opportunities and equal treatment for men and women in employment and occupation. although the disparities in employment rates and wages have narrowed somewhat in recent years, this is not due to an improvement in the position of women, nor is it due to better action by member states in this area. the report correctly notes that member states often only transpose the directive into their national law, but do not do enough at other levels, such as monitoring the implementation of the principle of equal pay and exercising all available legal remedies against pay discrimination.
in writing. ‒ i support the proposal to implement directive 2006/54/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 5 july 2006 on the implementation of the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment of men and women in matters of employment and occupation in the majority of cases, as i really want the gender pay gap to be reduced or not to exist at all. since the report does not meet my expectations in all respects, since it includes the promotion of gender ideology, which in my view does not add value to the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment of men and women in employment and occupation, i would abstain in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this non-legislative resolution, in which we urge the commission to table new legislation providing for more effective means of supervising the implementation and enforcement of gender pay provisions in member states. it is of the utmost importance to close the pay gap in employment between men and women. i am personally glad that slovenia is, in this case, an example of good practice on the matter, and we need to ensure that such legislation is applied in all member states. this is why i supported the proposed mandatory pay audits for large stock-exchange-listed companies and possible sanctions at eu level in cases of non-compliance.
ladies and gentlemen, europeans are worried, refugees are scared and desperate, winter is coming and cold and dreams are turning into nightmares. we expect concrete action from european leaders. there is very little talk of humanitarian protection, much more focus on leaders protecting the external borders, on reinforcement, on return policy. what about inclusion policy? the relocation of refugees must be brought as soon as possible to a normal, fair distribution, and humane treatment of people must become the rule. i agree that solidarity with the western balkan countries is extremely important, but also the prevention of criminal business and profit-making at the expense of the people. i expect a humane and supportive response tomorrow. only a united europe can lead and participate in the international community's efforts to end the war in syria. my friends, fleeing to europe is not an option, but a safe and dignified life in one's own country is something everyone deserves.
in writing. data protection directive 95/64/ec provides that personal data may be transferred to a third country only if that third country ensures an adequate level of data protection. under the directive, the european commission has the competence to decide whether a given third country meets an adequate level of protection of personal data. first, in the safe harbor decision, the european commission determined that the united states ensures adequate protection of personal data transferred under the scheme. then, in 2015, the court of justice of the european union ruled in a case concerning the transfer of eu citizens' data to the us via the social network facebook under the so-called safe harbor. the court found that legislation allowing public authorities general access to the content of digital communication channels could seriously undermine the fundamental right to privacy and overturned the commission's decision in the safe harbour case. the latter violated the fundamental human right to the protection of personal data and enabled the transfer of a large amount of personal data of eu citizens. following the clear message given by the court of justice of the eu, i believe that a strong legal framework for the protection of personal data is needed. we need robust common rules on personal data protection in the eu that can also be applied to internet operators and the us online sector, which would allow for reform of eu legislation.
it's dangerous to forget about ukraine in the face of all the other problems we have in the world today. our interest in ukraine must be constant. we must also avoid the temptation to talk about ukraine and its european future exclusively in the context of the cold war, in which we have actually been living for some time. reforms are needed and we must support them. including reforms in terms of strengthening the rule of law . ukraine owes us an answer on the investigation of the political killings of russian journalists and politicians in ukraine. we need a political dialogue. and a great diplomatic effort by all the actors to dialogue with both the separatists and the neighbors if we want a democratic european ukraine to live to its full.
patricia schulin - political and financial support must be coordinated to achieve the objectives set and to manage public money responsibly. the european union is committed to the middle east peace process. it is therefore right that it should provide financial support to ngos that pursue it and end support to those that threaten it. we cannot allow the peace process to be undermined by financial support to ngos that threaten it. when will we see an eu-wide investigation similar to the one carried out in the uk? in the united kingdom, the anti-semitic statements of the leader of one of the ngos led to a report drawn up by all the political parties, with a very clear message - the activity of ngos should clearly follow their stated objective, for which they also receive european funding. given the events we have witnessed in israel over the last two weeks, i think it is high time for the commission to act!
in writing. ‒ the proposed decision to set the date of entry into force of the procedures related to the search for information for the prevention, detection and investigation of terrorist offences and other serious criminal offences is purely a technical matter, i.e. to confirm the continuation of access to the visa information system by the competent authorities of the member states and europol. ensuring the security of eu citizens must remain the top priority of european security policy, which is currently being put to the test by the migrant crisis. the continuous flow of information on visas between the security authorities of the eu member states and europol is one of the most important elements for ensuring security within the eu and the continued maintenance of this flow of information is crucial. for the reasons stated above, i supported the report as proposed.
in writing. ‒ the visa information system (vis) is a system for the exchange of visa data between member states, and is one of the key initiatives in the eu's policies aimed at creating an area of justice, freedom and security. the system is intended to improve the implementation of the common visa policy and to contribute to improving internal security and the fight against terrorism. in the fight against terrorism and other serious crime, it is essential that the relevant authorities (national and europol) have as complete and up-to-date information as possible from their respective fields of work. i agree that the information contained in the vis could be of crucial importance in preventing terrorism and serious crime. i supported the report in question on the basis of the above and voted in favour of setting a date for the implementation of council decision 2008/633/jha, which is already in force.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal to give the designated authorities of the member states and europol access to the visa information system (vis) to search for data for the purposes of preventing, detecting and investigating terrorist offences and other serious crimes, as i believe that the designated authorities of the member states and europol will have greater control over the perpetrators of crime and terrorist threats. all this will have the potential to make a positive impact and prevent possible future attacks on european values and institutions. at the same time, our citizens will be more protected and safer.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because of the importance of insuring safety and at the same time fair and appropriate access to data relevant for safety. access by national authorities will be designed in such a way that the operating units within the designated national authorities may access vis data through central access points assigned by eu countries. access to the data will be applied for on a case-by-case basis with reasoned written or electronic requests. the requests will be verified and processed by the central access points prior to querying the vis. they would then transfer the data obtained from the query to the operation units. only in urgent cases may the requests be submitted in written, electronic or oral form, with the verifications carried out ex-post.
in writing. ‒ the adopted draft amending budget no 6/2015, which i myself supported, concerns the revision of the forecast for the traditional own resources, vat and gdp bases, and also includes some corrections to the financing of the eu budget by the united kingdom. the latter results in a change in the distribution of contributions to the eu budget between member states. the proposed budget amendment also concerns the introduction of two new budget lines to support the trust funds managed by the commission in the field of development policy, cooperation policy or enlargement policy, and adapts the establishment plan of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications (berec). the adopted budget amendment will not affect the budgetary expenditure for 2015.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 6/2015, submitted by the commission, introduces a number of new elements relating to the revision of the forecast relating to the traditional own resources base, vat and gni. the proposal also covers the introduction of two new budget lines with a flag (p.m.) to support the trust funds and the amendment of the establishment plan of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications. the draft amending budget also contains a technical change to the revenue in the eu budget, which i believe has a solid basis in recent statistical developments and is in line with the agreed allocation among the member states. the proposal, with all its elements, does not affect expenditure in the 2015 budget and its impact on revenue has only led to a change in the distribution of contributions by member state. i have supported the draft amending budget no 6/2015 on the basis of the above.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft amending budget no 6/2015: own resources, the union trust fund for external action, the office of the european regulators for electronic communications, as the amendments to the budget do not affect the expenditure in the 2015 budget. the impact on revenue has led to a change in the distribution of contributions across member states. the introduction of two new budget lines to support the trust funds, which represent support for economic development, is also included, which has an additional significance both for the union as a whole and for slovenia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report concerning own resources, european union trust funds for external action, the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications as it covers the creation of two new budget items, to support expenditure for trust funds managed by the commission in the policy areas of ‘development and cooperation’ and ‘enlargement’. this technical adjustment to the revenue side of the eu budget is soundly based on the latest statistical developments and in line with the agreed distribution between member states. it is also important to note that draft amending budget no 6/2015, in all its elements, has no impact on the expenditure side of the 2015 budget and that its impact on the revenue side is a change in the distribution between member states’ contributions only.
in writing. ‒ we voted virtually unanimously for an additional €66 million to be allocated to tackling the refugee crisis through the flexibility instrument. little, all too little, i can argue for that sum given the scale we see in the field today. this resolution, which i naturally supported, because 66 million is much better than nothing, also shows the rigidity, the unadaptation of the whole european union to a rapidly changing situation. perhaps when we first started talking about it, the amount mentioned was not so little money. but we already know today that we will need much, much more to address and manage the migration crisis. i hope that the european parliament will be able to adopt solutions as soon as possible, solutions which will have a soothing effect tomorrow and which will give europe's future hope and faith that we can solve any problem, no matter how great, by working together in a european spirit.
in writing. ‒ i supported the measure because we must be humane towards those who are really in need and show solidarity with the countries that are more affected. the flexibility instrument for immediate budgetary measures will provide eur 66,1 million to finance measures to manage the refugee crisis from the ec budget.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed to mobilise the flexibility instrument, through the mff ceiling, to complement the financing from the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2015 of eur 66,1 million in commitment appropriations to manage the refugee and migration crisis. the draft report contains an important emphasis that payments resulting from commitments previously made under the flexibility instrument may be taken into account only above the ceiling, without prejudice to the possibility of using payment appropriations for specific budget lines under the flexibility instrument without previous commitments. the use of the flexibility instrument is necessary in the case in question. i agree with the proposed allocation of the corresponding payment appropriations of eur 52,9 million in 2016 and eur 13,2 million in 2017, and therefore supported the draft report. however, i believe that the union budget should be more flexible. access to and use of funds should be immediate in such and similar situations, as this is the only way to avoid further damage and further unnecessary expenditure of funds.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal to use the flexibility instrument for immediate budgetary measures under the european agenda on migration, as i believe that it is necessary to provide sufficient funds to finance measures, precisely for the purpose of managing and addressing the refugee problem.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for immediate budgetary measures under the european agenda on migration. as this topic is very important for all member states, all citizens and, most importantly, for all refugees and migrants, efficient measures have to be adopted and also financially supported. therefore i agree that it is necessary to mobilise the flexibility instrument to complement financing in the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2015 by eur 66.1 million, in order to finance measures in the field of migration, and more specifically for managing the refugee crisis.
in writing. ‒ as in the vote on the immediate budgetary measures to deal with the migrant crisis, i also supported the proposed budget amendment. the amendment adopted provides for an additional eur 100 million for the asylum, migration and integration fund and the internal security fund, eur 300 million for additional funding for the european neighbourhood instrument and a reallocation of eur 55.7 million for humanitarian aid payment appropriations. in addition, the adopted budget amendment also increases the number of posts in frontex, the european asylum support office and europol by 120. all these measures are welcome, of course, but in the current situation, where slovenia is among the most affected countries and its capacity to deal with the wave of migrants is already at the edge, they are significantly insufficient. to tackle a migration crisis that has completely spiralled out of control, we will need far more resources, as well as a wealth of swift and effective measures. this will not be possible without closer cooperation between member states, and it is therefore the european parliament's task, within its powers, to put pressure on the council to adopt appropriate and effective solutions to the migration crisis as soon as possible. we need unity in the protection of the eu's external border, and all available means must be used to ensure this. without it, the eu as we know it will no longer exist.
in writing. ‒ i supported amending budget no 7/2015 because we must be humane with those who are really in need and show solidarity with the countries that are more affected. amending budget no 7/2015 strengthens the resources of the ec to deal with the refugee and migration crisis by addressing the lack of financial resources within the general budget of the ec.
in writing. ‒ on 23 september 2015, the commission presented draft budget no 7 for 2015, which aims to make the necessary changes for immediate actions in the remaining months of 2015 and to make use of all possibilities for reallocating appropriations at this stage of the budgetary procedure without jeopardising the implementation of other expenditure programmes. the proposal includes an increase in emergency assistance under the asylum, migration and integration fund (amif) and the internal security fund (isf), an increase in the number of posts from the staff plan for frontex, the european asylum support office and europol to increase their capacity on the ground, additional funds for the european neighbourhood instrument and an increase in humanitarian aid payment appropriations of eur 55,7 million by reallocation. these measures are made necessary by the current refugee and migrant crisis and constitute a fundamental basis for addressing the pressing problems, which is why i supported amending budget no 7 to the general budget for 2015.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 7/2015 - managing the refugee crisis: i supported the immediate budgetary measures under the european agenda on migration, as this amendment seeks to increase the union's resources to deal with the current refugee crisis, which means that this proposal will support countries of origin and transit and help them stabilise. the commission will also be able to use the appropriations for humanitarian aid to refugees and asylum seekers, and this budgetary change will also increase the number of jobs in frontex, the european asylum support office and europol.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it aims to reinforce the european union’s resources to deal with the current refugee and migrant crisis, thereby addressing current underfunding. this provides a reinforcement of emergency assistance provided under the asylum, migration and integration fund (amif) and the internal security fund for a total amount of eur 100 million in commitment appropriations while maintaining the necessary resources. it also provides additional funding for the european neighbourhood instrument for a total amount of eur 300 million, and eur 1.3 million in commitment and payment appropriations for 120 new posts at the frontex border agency, the european asylum support office (easo) and europol. i also welcome the swift response from the commission in dealing with the current refugee crisis and the readiness of parliament to act in due time in accordance with its budgetary responsibilities. the proposed measures have to be coupled with initiatives aimed at addressing the root causes of the migration and refugee crisis.
in writing. ‒ i supported the request for waiver of the parliamentary immunity of béli kovácsu, as i believe that on the basis of a reasonable suspicion, an investigation could be carried out to determine whether the accused will be convicted of the crime of espionage against the institutions of the european union in accordance with section 261/a of act c of 2012 on the hungarian criminal code.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal to appoint a deputy executive director of the european fund for strategic investments, as article 7 (6) of regulation (eu) 2015/1017 provides that the executive director and the deputy executive director of the european fund for strategic investments are to be appointed by the european investment bank, after prior approval by the european parliament, on the basis of an open and transparent procedure in accordance with eib procedures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report concerning the appointment of deputy managing director of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi), in which we confirmed iliyana tsanova for the position of deputy managing director of the efsi. the efsi aims to overcome the current investment gap in the eu by mobilising private financing for strategic investments which the market cannot finance alone. it will support strategic investments in infrastructure as well as risk finance for small businesses. the fund will focus its financing on investments in infrastructure and innovation, as well as finance for smes, which are very important for the european economy. therefore i believe the managing of this fund should be done with great responsibility.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal to appoint an executive director of the european fund for strategic investments, as article 7 (6) of regulation (eu) 2015/1017 provides that the executive director and the deputy executive director of the european fund for strategic investments are to be appointed by the european investment bank, after prior approval by the european parliament, on the basis of an open and transparent procedure in accordance with eib procedures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report concerning the appointment of managing director of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi), in which we confirmed mr wilhelm molterer for the position of managing director of the efsi. the efsi aims to overcome the current investment gap in the eu by mobilising private financing for strategic investments which the market cannot finance alone. it will support strategic investments in infrastructure as well as risk finance for small businesses. the fund will focus its financing on investments in infrastructure and innovation, as well as finance for smes, which are very important for the european economy. therefore i believe the managing of this fund should be done with great responsibility.
in writing. ‒ the forthcoming international climate conference in paris is undoubtedly one of the key international events of the year, and as with all previous climate conferences, there are high expectations ahead of the upcoming one regarding the guidelines adopted. the proposed report, which i supported, represents in my view an ambitious starting point for the negotiations on a climate agreement, which are being put forward by the european parliament. last year, the latter called for the following targets to be achieved by 2030: a 40% reduction in greenhouse gas concentrations, a 40% improvement in energy efficiency and a 30% increase in the share of renewable energy sources in all energy sources. in its resolution on the forthcoming paris climate conference, it made a clear commitment to these goals and remained committed to their binding nature. of course, achieving these goals will require major adjustments by the world economy, by the world's biggest polluters - the us, china and the eu - and by emerging economies. only in this way will it be possible, in my view, to achieve a long-term temperature increase of less than 2 °c compared to pre-industrial levels. i sincerely hope that all the participants in the paris climate conference will take responsibility and reach a sufficiently ambitious agreement for a cleaner future.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report 'towards a new international climate agreement in paris' prepared by the european parliament for the cop21 in paris. the report is ambitious enough, binding and covers all partners. caring for the future of our planet is closely linked to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and protecting the environment, and achieving this will require respecting the agreement.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal on the way to a new international climate agreement in paris, as i believe that the time is ripe for ambitious change, as climate change requires an immediate, responsible and global response based on solidarity from the international community. the paris agreement is ambitious, global and legally binding, and has positive implications for all eu citizens, particularly in the light of climate change mitigation and adaptation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the eu’s negotiating position for the international climate conference in paris. the european parliament has called for the setting aside of a number of eu carbon market allowances after 2020 for international climate finance and i hope this resolution will, in particular, support a concrete eu mechanism for international climate finance. the eu has so far shown determination and a high level of ambition, but the commitment must be seen also through financial support for the measures. climate finance will be crucial to forge much-needed coalitions and ensure poor countries can leapfrog towards clean and climate-resilient development. we also called on eu finance ministers to back parliament´s proposal and use the eu’s carbon market for international finance.
the european union should take a leading role in the global debate on the fight against tax fraud. today, member states exchange very little information on tax rulings. often they are not even informed of decisions with cross-border effects, although this is very important. and it is right that automatic exchange should become mandatory. this will, in my view, significantly reduce the number of tax evasion cases and, of course, reduce the attractiveness of tax incentive schemes. however, the reasons for concealment in tax-favoured schemes are not necessarily to be found solely in tax avoidance, but may also be to conceal the actual ownership under the cover of a wide-ranging network of subsidiaries. the resolution is, of course, a concrete step forward and i hope that it will make the tax system more transparent.
tax evasion and fraud have been increasing in recent years and have serious consequences for member states' tax revenues. this results in a loss of billions of euros per year, which means that it also prevents the financing of certain projects in the public and private sectors. recently, we have witnessed the disclosure of hundreds of cases of exploitation of differences in tax systems and of countries' lack of awareness of the possible cross-border effects of tax positions. at present, member states are free to decide for themselves whether a tax position can affect other member states. coupled with the extreme complexity and disparity of tax systems, this could be a recipe for a scandal of international proportions. i would therefore like to point out that we must strive for greater transparency towards citizens, and it is therefore only right that the register of tax positions should also be available to the public.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur for the good cooperation and, above all, for the effort we have put into negotiating with the council. i would like to emphasise that tourism plays an important role in europe, as the sector together with related sectors accounts for as much as 10% of european gdp. that is why it is all the more important to have such a directive. firstly, because it allows consumers to be protected and reduces the burden of red tape on smes, and secondly, because it also allows smes to be treated fairly, especially since the initial approach was to favour large companies, which are the stronger players on the market for package insurers. and most importantly, here, the consumer is protected, they just need to be sufficiently well informed.
i would like to thank mr schöphlin for his excellent report on the european citizens' initiative, which allows citizens to co-design european legislation under conditions that are, of course, familiar to them. the report seeks to improve the functioning of this new original instrument of european democracy, which is reducing the democratic deficit to a good extent. the report proposes to remove some of the obstacles that are particularly difficult for the organisers of initiatives. the european civil society has responded surprisingly positively to the launch of the european citizens' initiative. in three years, as we have heard many times today, there have been over 50 initiatives, but the commission has failed, since it has only declared three of them admissible, and none of them has yet been followed up by a legislative proposal. of course, that's not right. democracy is vulnerable today. there are theories about the general inefficiency of democracy and assessments of its decline. i believe that such direct forms of participation make european democracy more vital, strengthen the european citizen's institution and mobilise civil society. i therefore support the call in mr schöphlin's report that the institutions of the european union and the member states should promote the european citizens' initiative and thereby strengthen citizens' confidence in this instrument. of course, this will not be possible if the european institutions are not responsive.
the citizens' initiative is an instrument for the direct expression and implementation of democracy, and many failed initiatives, as we heard today, and of course the commission's failure to respond to successful citizens' initiatives, can cause confusion and even disappointment with the eu institutions. the citizens have a legitimate expectation that what is written works. if it is written in the lisbon treaty as a form of democracy, then it should be applied. as we have heard, there is a need for further political steps to be taken on the admissibility of this initiative and for more clarity to be given to the procedural rules for the submission of an initiative. the rules must be clear, otherwise they do not work, and if this is not done, then this citizens' initiative only suggests the possibility of establishing direct democracy.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. i will focus on the issue of dismissal of the council. six months have passed since parliament granted the council discharge and today we are debating again whether the council will finally disclose its financial management. the discharge procedure is mandatory for all european institutions, and the council is no exception. the implementation of its budget must be subject to the same controls as those applied to all the european institutions. and how is it that parliament once again, as it has for so many years, has no access to the council's budget? and how is it that this time, as for so many years in a row, there is no representative of the council at the discharge hearing? more than ever before, citizens expect transparency and accountability in spending. the key institutions, including the council, must set an example to preserve the credibility of the european union in the eyes of taxpayers. i am convinced that it is no longer enough to call on the council, before the members of parliament, before the european public, and that is why we have tabled an amendment in the green group for the 2016 budget, which for the first time imposes a budgetary reserve on the council. since we cannot, of course, change anything backwards, we can, first, definitively refuse to grant the discharge for 2013 and, second, sanction this in the 2016 budget as well.
the granting of discharge is a normal procedure both in private enterprises, where it is done by the owners of the enterprises, and in public institutions, where it is prepared and carried out on behalf of the people by elected people. i am therefore pleased to follow the report of the rapporteur, which found that artemis, eniac and also the european institute of innovation and technology made corrections for the financial year 2013, followed the recommendations and followed the discharge authorities. but i too find it absolutely unacceptable that what is happening with the council, and as we hear it happening year after year, is that the council somehow defies and does not want to answer to parliament about these discharge. i therefore support the rapporteur's position that we should not grant these exemptions. and i hope that in the future the council will show more respect for parliament and thus for the people of europe.
air pollution is one of the biggest public health risks in europe. a significant proportion of europe's population lives in areas where air quality is severely impaired by ozone, nitrogen dioxide and, in particular, particulate matter. it is estimated that more than 400,000 people die each year in europe as a result of these effects. the european environment agency's data, which predicts high mortality from air pollution in the coming years, is also of concern. of course, this should be of great concern to us. although new standards have been introduced in europe, they are not sufficient and deviate from the standards set by the world health organization. and i think we underestimate the impact of this situation in europe, especially in the concentrated cities. and i think we need to do much, much more in this area.
mr president, i would like to get your attention to underline the difficult situation in slovenia. in the last few days almost 80 000 refugees have entered slovenia. on the one side, croatia is sending refugees to my country, often on the green border and, on the other side, austria and germany are step by step closing their borders. we are facing a humanitarian catastrophe in slovenia. it is very well known that the absorption potential of my country is ten times smaller than the number of refugees that have entered slovenia in the last few days. the slovenian government certainly bears a huge part of the responsibility for the situation in the country. nevertheless, both refugees and slovenians expect that responsibility must be taken also by the eu institutions and some member states. mr commissioner, the emergency plan adopted on sunday’s meeting in brussels must be fulfilled immediately.
i come from slovenia, more precisely from posavi, where in the neighbouring municipality of brežice, five to ten thousand people cross the state border every day. the croatian state authorities take them to the border, show them where the border is, either across the fields or across the river, and then these unfortunates turn to our slovenian side. that is why i support yesterday's conclusions on the coordinated action of those of us on this path. also, given the necessary solidarity that europe offers to migrants and refugees it is right to be aware that europe is not capable of accepting, integrating and fulfilling the expectations of all those who see europe as the promised land. europe must therefore establish an effective external border with turkey in the mediterranean as soon as possible. we must establish this border for the sake of the security and future of our continent. the europeans have not given anyone a mandate to open the borders completely. germany and sweden must tell the people coming to europe as soon as possible what they can offer them, so that there are not too many disappointed and unhappy people. we need to get serious and be responsible.
the principle of neutrality in the open internet means that traffic should be treated equally, without discrimination, restriction or interference, regardless of the sender, recipient, type, content, device, service or application. as i hear today, we are all for net neutrality, but there are clearly differences in understanding whether this regulation really does provide that, whether this regulation will really achieve those goals. indeed, when comparing the text at first reading, it is clear that virtually all the provisions relating to the concept, definition and guarantee of the independence and neutrality of the internet are missing. and this very loose language, experts in slovenia also point out, can be a major problem in europe. and i have to say that a good example of the practice of legislation, how this should be regulated, is the case of slovenia.
in writing. i welcome the council's proposal to abolish roaming charges on mobile networks, but not at the cost of much lower standards on net neutrality than the compromise text proposed by the council. in 2012, despite opposition from the left in the national assembly - sd even introduced amendments that removed net neutrality - net neutrality was preserved in slovenia. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. rather than allowing the emergence of a 'two-speed internet', it is necessary to ensure that access is equal for everyone without discrimination and that there is no emergence of monopolies and restrictions on healthy competition. this is important both from the perspective of the average internet user, and from the perspective of education and competitiveness, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, which represent more than 98% of all european companies.
i've been to the reception centers on the slovenian border. and along with the colony, thousands of tired, sick refugees. look at the footage! they're people! but who are these men who are chased into the cold river at night? isn't croatia obliged to respect the rules of the european union? she only applied for tents yesterday. i no longer have credibility with my people when i speak of tolerance and solidarity. my european leaders are beating the shit out of me. and the unannounced sending of migrants to undetermined locations in slovenia continues. in the last ten days alone, 80,000 refugees have entered slovenia. that's as much as 3.2 million people entering germany! chaos will ensue if the measures taken do not work, and the predictions of impatient xenophobes will come true. it's not true that you can't! some people don't, and that's the truth. and i call on world leaders to stop their hypocrisy and their profit-seeking and to bring peace to the syrian region. if not, they should step aside and leave the decision-making to those who have the will, the sound mind and the heart.
the question asked by raising the blue card. i have to respond to this tendentious speech by my colleague regarding slovenia. i ask her how she would react if a conflict situation developed between the refugees themselves, which had to be dealt with to prevent the matter from escalating into a bigger fire. the slovak police acted responsibly.
the honourable member will be pleased to hear that. thank you for calling this meeting on sunday, which was no doubt helpful. i was less impressed with your tone of criticism directed at the leaders of the countries on the balkan route. it would be good if you were critical of everybody like that, because the leaders of these countries have a 100 percent problem and a problem that is beyond their capacity, and they were nervous about it, but i think the meeting has improved a lot of things here. my country, slovenia, is all because it is small, on the infamous balkan route, one could also say on the crossroads of tens of thousands of refugees and migrants. today, we europeans must admit that we are all on the balkan path. we have a problem that didn't just happen, it wasn't caused by nature or bad luck. it is the result of the disastrous decisions of this generation's politicians, the interventions, the wars, and the illusions that we can run the world according to our desires, ambitions and our own image. the multitude of unhappy people from countries that our short-sighted policies have helped to bring down are here. they came to us as many people have come and gone in the history of our continent, of different faiths, races and beliefs. but there is a difference: today europe is stronger and richer, built on common values. they must also be the basis for concrete and effective action by the european union as a whole, governments and humanitarian and civil society activists. joint, coordinated action, solidarity, vision, tolerance and efficiency, political solution to the problems of the middle east with the participation of all those affected and involved.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report proposed, as the two legal acts in the field of the common agricultural policy, the regulation and the directive, need to be repealed in order to bring them into line with the acquis. indeed, some legal acts adopted in the last few decades are no longer relevant, which may be due to their temporary nature or because their content has been taken over by later acts. in the case in point, the directive setting the maximum level of erucic acid in oils and fats, which is summarised in regulation 1881/2006, and the regulation establishing a temporary scheme for the restructuring of the sugar industry, which is no longer applicable because of its temporary nature, are obsolete.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report on the common agricultural policy: repealing obsolete acts. i've approved the technical amendments that we're making to override the obsolete acts. the european commission does not have the power to repeal acts adopted by the council, so acts whose content has been taken over by other acts or is no longer up to date must be approved by the council and the european parliament in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council repealing council directive 76/621/eec setting up a maximum level for erucic acid in oils and fats and council regulation (ec) no 320/2006 establishing a temporary scheme for the restructuring of the sugar industry, as i believe that some of the legal acts adopted in recent decades are inadequate, their validity is still only formal and they should be repealed for reasons of legal certainty and clarity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this legislative resolution relating to the fixing of the maximum level of erucic acid in oils and establishing a temporary scheme for the restructuring of the sugar industry. i agree that improving the transparency of eu law is an essential element of the better law–making strategy that eu institutions are implementing, therefore it was necessary, in order to insure legal certainty and clarity, to repeal those legal acts which no longer have real effect.
in writing. ‒ as i said in the previous point, mandatory taxation exchanges between countries, whether eu member states or third countries, are a key step in reducing tax evasion. switzerland has one of the highest levels of banking secrecy in the world and has enjoyed a reputation since world war ii for having huge amounts of money from all over the world, including money of dubious origin, hidden in its banks. in the fight against tax evasion in the eu, which has gained considerable momentum over the past year, there is therefore a need to improve the dialogue with the swiss federation and to improve international cooperation in the tax field. the agreement, which i naturally supported, represents an important step in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion and provides, inter alia, for the automatic exchange of information on residents' financial accounts between the eu and switzerland from 2018 onwards. the aim is to achieve full disclosure of the taxpayer's assets, regardless of where the assets or capital are located. the possibilities of avoiding the declaration of assets to the tax authorities by transferring assets to third parties or by investing in products not covered by the agreement are also limited. the data exchanged will not only relate to income in the form of interest and dividends, but also to the balance of accounts and the proceeds from the sale of financial assets.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the eu-switzerland agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information. the events surrounding the luxleaks affair required us to act quickly and effectively. just as there must be automatic exchange of data between member states in the field of taxation, there must also be automatic exchange of data on financial accounts between the eu and third countries. the aim is primarily to crack down on tax evasion and to facilitate the identification of all tax evaders.
in writing. ‒ report on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the amending protocol to the agreement between the european community and the swiss confederation providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in council directive 2003/48/ec on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments i supported the report as it represents a major step forward in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion and builds on the agreement that has led to switzerland implementing measures equivalent to those laid down in the eu directive on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments. the tax authorities in the member states and switzerland will be able to identify taxpayers correctly and unambiguously, administer and enforce national tax laws in cross-border situations, assess the likelihood of tax evasion and ensure that unnecessary further investigations are avoided.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour on the matter concerning the eu-switzerland agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information in order to insure greater transparency and prevention of fraud and tax avoidance. these measures will make it harder for eu citizens to hide cash from tax authorities in swiss bank accounts and therefore to avoid paying taxes. the regulation of taxation also contributes to insuring that taxes are collected and provided for social rights, for example education and healthcare. this is why i believe that ending bank secrecy is a very important step for tax justice. the information that will be exchanged includes not only income, such as interest and dividends, but also account balances and proceeds from the sale of financial assets.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments: repeal of the savings directive. by repealing the 2003 savings tax directive, we will make it easier for member states to collect and report information. the new directive will broaden the scope of the directive. we all agree and we all want to strengthen the fight against tax fraud and fair taxation, and i therefore agree with the rapporteur's concern that this needs to be done with great care.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a council directive repealing council directive 2003/48/ec on savings, as the 2003 savings directive requires reporting of income from interest on debt securities and similar products, while the administrative cooperation directive covers many more products, and i believe that we must avoid double reporting and unnecessary burden on member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this legislative resolution and therefore approved the commission proposal as amended. the text addresses the bilateral agreements between the european union and five european countries that are not member states of the european union (the swiss confederation, the principality of liechtenstein, the republic of san marino, the principality of monaco and the principality of andorra), as well as between each of the member states and 12 dependent or associated territories (the channel islands, the isle of man and the dependent or associated territories in the caribbean) and it is important that such bilateral agreements are adapted to the new oecd global standard and to directive 2014/107/eu. it is also crucial that no loopholes or other inadequacies are created in the process of moving from the existing to the new standard. at the same time this allows the commission to take an active role in facilitating and promoting the revision of the member state agreements with the 12 dependent or associated territories.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the proposed decision, which i supported, is to allow sweden to receive and transmit personal data in accordance with the applicable rules on improving crossborder cooperation. this is particularly important in the fight against terrorism and cross-border crime, and all the more so in the light of the current migration crisis.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the draft council implementing decision on the launch of automated data exchange with sweden, as the council implementing decision will allow sweden to receive and send data on the deepening of cross-border cooperation, in particular in the field of combating terrorism and cross-border crime, which will ensure greater security for eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on automated data exchange with regard to dactyloscopic data in sweden because i believe it is important to strengthen cross-border cooperation, particularly in combating terrorism and cross-border crime, and to work on strengthening cross-border law-enforcement cooperation in the eu. it has also been established that sweden has fully implemented the general provisions on data protection of chapter 6 of decision 2008/615/jha, therefore i supported this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the proposed decision allows belgium to receive and transmit personal data in accordance with the rules on enhancing crossborder cooperation. this is particularly important in the fight against terrorism and cross-border crime, and all the more so in the light of the current migration crisis. i was happy to support the decision.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the draft council implementing decision on the launch of the automated exchange of dactyloscopic data in belgium, as this will allow belgium to receive and send data on the deepening of crossborder cooperation, in particular in the field of combating terrorism and crossborder crime, which will ensure greater security for eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on automated data exchange with regard to dactyloscopic data in belgium because i believe it is important to strengthen cross-border cooperation, particularly in combating terrorism and cross-border crime, and to work on strengthening cross-border law enforcement cooperation in the eu.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the proposed decision is to allow poland to receive and transmit personal data in accordance with the rules on enhancing crossborder cooperation. this is particularly important in the fight against terrorism and cross-border crime, and all the more so in the light of the current migration crisis. since i believe that the security of citizens must be guaranteed to the greatest possible extent, i supported the proposed decision.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the draft council implementing decision on the launch of automated data exchange in poland, as this will allow poland to receive and send data on the deepening of cross-border cooperation, in particular in the field of combating terrorism and cross-border crime, which will ensure greater security for eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on automated data exchange with regard to dactyloscopic data in poland because i believe it is important to strengthen cross-border cooperation, particularly in combating terrorism and cross-border crime, and to work on strengthening cross-border law-enforcement cooperation in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that the proposed directive has been adopted, as i believe it will contribute to a better quality of tourism in the eu. tourism is one of the most important economic sectors in the eu. the areas of package travel covered by the directive represent a significant part of the travel market, which has changed considerably since the adoption of the package travel directive currently in force. today, travel services are not just a combination of traditional tourist packages but are tailored to the individual. the passenger of today is also much more demanding than ever before, and the market must adapt accordingly. the internet plays an important role in the provision of tourist services, as the market for such products is changing very rapidly. legislation should therefore follow the development of package travel, especially online, and increase the protection of travellers or consumers and reduce the administrative burden on providers of such services, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. i am convinced that the adopted directive certainly meets these criteria and provides a good basis for the continued growth of european tourism!
in writing. ‒ the amendment of the package travel and travel assistance directive has made it possible to better inform consumers about the service they are buying. the directive ensures that consumers are provided with all the key information before and after they sign the package travel contract. they shall be given greater protection in the event of an increase in the price of the package without justified reasons or in the event of any other change, such as the time of departure and arrival of the package. consumers are also protected if the price of the entire package increases by more than eight per cent, as they can then choose not to travel and get their money back. consumers are also protected in the event of the insolvency of the tour operator. in the light of all that has been written, i think that the revision of the regulation is a good thing and i am pleased that, after tough negotiations, we have managed to reach a compromise with the council and the commission and to produce a good text of the regulation that will serve both consumers and businesses. for the reasons i have given, i support the regulation and voted against the amendment tabled by the efdd group, which was intended to reject the european council's position and thus the new regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the recommendation for a second reading on package travel and assistance in organising travel. today, in the age of information technology, we have many models of online travel booking that are not covered by the existing 1990 directive. we therefore need a new directive to cover all the new and additional elements. however, this recommendation has not paid sufficient attention to unfair business practices and has not focused on prosecuting only those practices. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be allowed to apply the principle of proportionality to the aid granted to airlines. this should be given greater attention, particularly in terms of detection and prevention.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council on package travel and package holidays, amending regulation (ec) no 2006/2004 and directive 2011/83/eu of the european parliament and of the council and repealing council directive 90/314/eec, because it contains certain clauses allowing certain travel service providers who market their services online to offer additional services in a disguised, vague or ambiguous way, such as hiding the possibility of not choosing additional services.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text concerning package travel and linked travel arrangements, as it brings regulation up to date with the developments in the travel market. the new rules will extend the protection of the 1990 eu package travel directive to cover not only traditional package holidays, but also to give clear protection to 120 million consumers who book other forms of combined travel, e.g. a self-chosen combination on a website of a flight plus hotel or car rental, which is something very common nowadays. there will always be protection in cases where travel services are advertised as a package or when they are offered at a total or inclusive price. these provisions bring benefits to consumers, as they are expected to reduce damages to consumers by about €430 million a year due to the reinforced rights. at the same time, these provisions bring benefits to the businesses too, as they will reduce administrative burdens and bring down compliance costs for traders from €11 to €8 per package sold.
in writing. ‒ i have long been an advocate of internet liberalisation and therefore voted against the proposed recommendation to confirm the council's position and thereby for the guarantee of net neutrality. the decision, which was unfortunately taken by a majority, seems to me to be contrary to the principles of the free market and potentially also to the freedom of access to information, two principles on which the european community of today is founded. it must aim at a single, not fragmented, telecommunications market. in addition, the decision adopted also implies a lower standard than the one currently in force in slovenia, where net neutrality is prescribed by law. the decision thus gives internet access providers the possibility to selectively control internet traffic to the end user, while allowing them to prioritise the commercial services they market. i also find it inappropriate that the same document includes the regulation on roaming on public communications networks in the european union, which will finally end roaming in the eu in 2017, which i of course strongly support. but such a regulation in the field of mobile telephony should not be an excuse for the simultaneous adoption of an imprecise and harmful directive on the supervision of electronic communications networks. that's why i supported amendments that reject the council's position or unequivocally guarantee net neutrality.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the greens/efa group, i am in favour of net neutrality and against monopolistic behaviour in telecommunications. i also think that there is no need to charge extra for data transfer abroad. the text, approved by parliament after its first reading, provided for the total abolition of the data surcharge by 2015. after negotiations with the council, we reached a compromise that this could only be done in 2017 by adding a wholesale tariff review clause. the directive was intended to remove the data transmission surcharge, but the current text does not allow this and even adds an additional regulatory burden. furthermore, i believe that the directive does not define the area of net neutrality well. to avoid any confusion, the greens/efa and the gue submitted amendments which provided a solution and clearly defined net neutrality, its use and what services are allowed in this context. i believe that we need a correct and precise definition of net neutrality and clear rules on its use, and i have therefore supported the amendments tabled by the greens/efa and gue groups.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the recommendation for a second reading on the european single market for electronic communications. i voted against it because of the inappropriate definition of net neutrality. i support the openness and neutrality of the internet. in slovenia, we have high standards in the field of net neutrality in the electronic communications act. i oppose the lowering of standards and support the free market in the internet and free access to information. the end-user must have a choice, and therefore access to and dissemination of information must be open to all.
in writing. ‒ i do not support the recommendations for second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down measures relating to open internet access and amending directive 2002/22/ec on universal service and users' rights relating to electronic communications networks and services and regulation (eu) no 531/2012 on roaming on public mobile communications networks in the union, as the proposal does not contain a precise definition of what is meant by and what is covered by the concept of 'internet neutrality'.
in writing. ‒ torture and physical punishment of individuals, whether by terrorists or by national law, do not belong in the 21st century. despite the tremendous progress that mankind has made in eradicating such acts throughout history, we still face horrific instances of torture or corporal punishment on a daily basis. if we expect this kind of behavior from societies that don't share the same values as the western values that we are part of, we certainly can't tolerate it happening to us. i therefore welcome the efforts to re-establish controls on trade in torture equipment in the eu and to ban the production of such equipment. eu controls on exports, including the lists of military equipment, dual-use goods, firearms and torture equipment, are also key, and should be carried out in a way that makes controls as effective as possible. i believe that measures such as the introduction of a ban on intermediary services for prohibited goods and clearer controls on the use of medical devices for execution by injection, and increased exchange of information between countries on transactions in trade in such goods, strengthen controls to a sufficiently high level. we cannot eradicate torture and corporal punishment, but we can limit it. i therefore support all measures that lead in this direction. the proposed directive is one of these measures.
in writing. ‒ the regulation on the prevention of torture (ec) no 1236/2005 is a unique instrument that contributes to the protection of human rights through the control of goods and activities that are used or could be abused for the purposes of capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment. by combining the prohibition with the requirements for obtaining a marketing authorisation that is listed, the regulation contributes to the eu's long-standing policy of abolishing the death penalty worldwide and preventing torture. the report highlights the need to modernise legislation in this area. in particular, it mentions the updating of control lists, the consistency of eu export controls (including lists for military equipment, dual-use goods, firearms and torture equipment without duplicating controls) and the strengthening of controls on torture equipment (the introduction of a specific annex iiia, the introduction of a ban on brokering services for prohibited goods, the extension of the ban on brokering services and technical assistance for controlled goods). i agree with the approach of necessary and proportionate controls without unnecessary burdens that would restrict trade in goods and legitimate end-uses on which updating legislation is based. as external trade transactions are becoming increasingly complex and the need for effective control, sanctioning, guidance and awareness raising is urgent, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report by the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on trade in certain goods which could be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. i support the prohibition of the production and use of, and trade in, torture equipment, and we need to renew eu controls on this trade. the eu must be given all the instruments for swift and effective control. what we need is a united and collective approach.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 on trade in certain goods which could be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, as it is necessary to ensure control of such goods, thereby seeking to prevent their use and thus contribute to the protection of eu citizens and human rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it contributes to the protection of human rights through the control of items and activities that are used for or could be misused for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. as the protection of human rights is one of the core values of the eu, it is important to ensure a right combination of eu legislative, administrative, judicial and external measures to prevent and prohibit the production, trade and use of torture goods and effectively control items with potential lethal and inhumane uses. these trade instruments are elements of a comprehensive approach which uses all of the eu’s instruments for external action, but it is essential at the same time to ensure the coherence of the eu’s export controls to overcome the absence of multilateral export control regimes in the field of torture goods. i believe these measure contribute to the long-standing eu policy of preventing torture and abolishing the death penalty worldwide.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the mandatory exchange of information in the field of taxation, as i consider that action in this area is welcome and necessary. the automatic exchange of data between member states should become mandatory, as aggressive tax optimisation, mainly used by the largest multinationals, is becoming more and more common. the lux-leaks affair exposed numerous anomalies in the member states' tax control mechanisms and the brutal practices used by multinationals to avoid paying taxes. measures are therefore necessary to improve the mutual exchange of information, which will help to reduce tax evasion and increase the transparency of transactions arising from the business activities of companies. tax evasion causes wider social harm and has a negative impact on people's well-being, as many countries are prevented from providing public services to the extent that they could due to the loss of revenue from tax evasion. on the other hand, large corporations also use such unfair practices to increase their profits and to reward their owners. of course, there is nothing wrong with this, as long as it is done in a fair and just way. of course, the adoption of this report will not magically solve all the problems of tax avoidance. but this report is a good stepping stone to further work, the aim of which must be to eliminate tax evasion completely.
in writing. ‒ tax fraud and evasion have been on the increase in recent years and have serious consequences for member states' tax revenues. this results in billions of dollars a year in losses and in tax increases. recently, we have witnessed the discovery of hundreds of cases of exploitation of differences in tax systems. the commission notes that the contested tax ruling does not provide any evidence that the contested tax ruling is imputable to the state. following this example, the eu must continue to take a leading role in the fight against tax fraud and evasion. these are not only illegal but also immoral practices that have a very negative impact on the functioning of the internal market. finally, smes are the ones who pay the highest price, as they are forced to operate in tax systems that are unfair and where multinationals are manipulated to gain an unfair competitive advantage. i welcome the commission's proposal, as it represents a step towards greater transparency. i am convinced that the mutual controls between countries, which are also highlighted in the report, could have a strong deterrent effect against the implementation of exploitative tax practices, and i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation. for the first time since the luxleaks affair, we have discussed concrete tax legislation in plenary. as one of the eu institutions, we must send a clear signal that we are committed to clear, transparent and fair tax legislation. i welcome the commission's proposal that tax rulings with crossborder implications should be automatically transmitted to the member states concerned. in doing so, however, i would like to point out that it is necessary to ensure that member states do not deliberately apply tax law against other member states.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 2011/16/eu as regards the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation, because, although it is significantly weakened from the commission's original proposal, it improves the tools and mechanisms for increasing transparency on tax avoidance, aggressive tax planning and harmful tax competitors, thus preventing companies from exploiting the system and artificially reducing their tax liability.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text in order to express my strong determination not to tolerate tax fraud and tax avoidance, as well as to advocate for a fair distribution of the tax burden between citizens and companies. considering that there are different national administrative practices, i believe that advanced tax rulings facilitate the consistent and transparent application of the law and an efficient exchange and processing of tax information. additionally, the resulting peer pressure would have a strong deterrent effect against the introduction of harmful tax practices and would allow member states and the commission to have all the relevant information at their disposal in order to take action against such practices. these measures definitely contribute to greater transparency and to the prevention of tax frauds.
in writing. ‒ the granting of discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget is a normal procedure, both in private companies and in public institutions, where this task is carried out by elected officials. the rapporteur concluded that the artemis joint undertaking had thus taken into account the proposed corrections, thereby following the recommendation of the european parliament granting discharge. the artemis joint undertaking was established in december 2007 for a period of 10 years to define and implement a research programme to develop key technologies for embedded computing systems in different fields of application, with the aim of improving european competitiveness and sustainability in the field of new market design and societal applications. the court of auditors' finding that artemis' financial performance had been positively assessed led to the preparation of a report, which i was happy to support.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament examines each year, in the budget discharge procedure, the legality, regularity and effectiveness of the implementation of the budget of the european institutions, agencies, joint undertakings and other eu services. the cont committee and then the members at the april plenary session postponed the discharge for the eniac joint undertaking for the 2013 budget, as the court of auditors has issued a qualified opinion on the legality and regularity of the transactions for the third consecutive year (i.e. for 2011, 2012 and 2013). in the meantime, parliament has received new information on the improvements in this joint undertaking, which already in 2014, after its merger with eniac into the ecsle joint undertaking, started actively to implement its action plan to address the shortcomings identified by the court of auditors and parliament over the years, as well as a new ex post audit strategy and an improved public procurement system. this is certainly the reason why i supported the discharge report for the artemis joint undertaking in the vote, while stressing that the joint undertaking must continue to make strong efforts to improve the identified deficiencies. it is not enough to implement the budget lawfully and correctly, it is also increasingly important to achieve long-term positive effects on the economy, society and the environment through prudent spending.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2013 discharge for the artemis joint undertaking. the court of auditors' report showed that the company had adequately presented its financial situation, including the results of operations and all cash flows in 2013. i also welcome the commitment of the artemis joint undertaking to address the deficiencies identified by the court in its qualified opinion and to complement the information provided by the joint undertaking by the national funding authorities.
in writing. ‒ i supported the second discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, as the joint undertaking had, in the opinion of the court of auditors, presented adequately its financial position, results of operations and cash flows as at 31 december 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament decision of 27 october 2015 on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. the resolution addresses the budgetary and financial management, internal control systems, prevention and management of conflicts of interests and transparency and monitoring and reporting of research results. these decisions are necessary to provide adequate monitoring and transparency of the work and its outcomes.
in writing. ‒ i also supported the discharge of the 2013 budget of the european institute of innovation and technology. as regards the financial operations of the institute, the court of auditors of the eu has in the past identified certain irregularities in grant transactions, which have subsequently been corrected. the institute has improved the quality of audit reports, improved certification methods and improved ex post verifications for grant transactions to ensure the legality and regularity of transactions. in addition, the institute has also improved its procurement procedures and has carried out an audit of its internal procedures in line with the procurement rules. the institute was also notified by the internal audit service of the european commission of its compliance with the regulations or of its recommendations. it follows from the above that the institute has responded adequately to the observations of the supervisory institutions and that therefore the granting of a discharge is the only correct solution.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the 2013 discharge for the european institute of innovation and technology (eit). despite some comments on the legality and regularity of the transactions by the court of auditors, i am thinking in particular of the legality and regularity of the transactions relating to grants, it can be observed that budgetary and financial management improved compared to the previous year. as the court has found, the institute has improved the planning and monitoring of budget implementation procedures, since these procedures now include a more detailed assessment of all proposed activities with budgetary implications.
in writing. ‒ i supported the second discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2013, as the institute had, in the opinion of the court of auditors, adequately presented its financial situation, had carried out its work in accordance with the laws and regulations and had improved the planning and monitoring of budget implementation procedures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2013, and on the decision of the closure of the accounts of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2013 because the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2013, found for the second consecutive year no reasonable assurance on the legality and regularity of the grant transactions and noted that the quality of the certificates was compromised as they were issued by independent audit firms contracted by the grant beneficiaries.
in writing. ‒ as i have already pointed out in the previous explanatory memorandum, the granting of discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget is a normal procedure, both in private undertakings and in public institutions, where this task is carried out by elected officials. the rapporteur also found compliance with the rules in the 2013 discharge report of the eniac joint undertaking, as previously established by the court of auditors of the eu. the company also duly followed the suggestions of the supervisory authorities and thus qualified for budgetary discharge. the eniac joint undertaking was established in 2007 for a period of 10 years. the purpose of the company was to define and implement a research programme to develop key competences for nanoelectronics in different fields of application. in may 2014, eniac merged with artemis to form the newly created technology platform ecsel, which also operates in compliance with the rules. the report was prepared following the findings of the court of auditors of the eu, which gave a positive assessment of eniac's financial performance in 2013, and i was also pleased to support it.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament examines each year, in the budget discharge procedure, the legality, regularity and effectiveness of the implementation of the budget of the european institutions, agencies, joint undertakings and other eu services. the cont committee and then the members at the april plenary session postponed the discharge for the eniac joint undertaking for 2013 as the court of auditors has issued a qualified opinion on the legality and regularity of the transactions for the third consecutive year (i.e. for 2011, 2012 and 2013). in the meantime, parliament has received new information on the improvements in this joint undertaking, which already in 2014, after its merger with artemis into the ecsle joint undertaking, started actively to implement its action plan to address the shortcomings identified by the court of auditors and parliament over the years, as well as a new ex post audit strategy and an improved public procurement system. this is certainly the reason why i supported the discharge report for the eniac joint undertaking in my vote, while stressing that the joint undertaking must continue to make strong efforts to improve the identified deficiencies. it is not enough to implement the budget lawfully and correctly, it is also increasingly important to achieve long-term positive effects on the economy, society and the environment through prudent spending.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2013 discharge for the eniac joint undertaking. in its report, the court of auditors found that the joint undertaking had completed 2013 in accordance with the provisions of its financial and accounting rules. i welcome the fact that, following the court's definition, the joint undertaking has put in place practical arrangements for ex post audits of administrative agreements signed with the national funding bodies and has introduced a specific reporting form.
in writing. ‒ i supported the second discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, as the court of auditors considered that the annual accounts, the operating results and the cash flows were fairly presented in all respects and that the eniac joint undertaking had also put in place practical arrangements for ex post audits.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, on the closure of the accounts of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013 and in favour of the resolution with observations forming an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, because i believe it is important to acknowledge the role of the eniac joint undertaking and because i agree that the statement concerning the 2013 annual accounts of the joint undertaking was presented fairly in all material respects. also, its financial position as of 31 december 2013 and the results of its operations and its cash flows for the year-end are in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules.
in writing. ‒ unlike the exemplary behaviour of the rest of the eu budget consumers who have been given a discharge, the discharge for the council is a different story altogether. it must be said loud and clear that the council does not deserve immunity. the council's disregard for the european parliament's calls for proper reporting and compliance with the rules of sound financial management is unacceptable. it is inconsistent, if not hypocritical, for member states to require their citizens and businesses to comply with rules concerning the expenditure of budgetary resources or to comply with tax legislation, while themselves systematically breaking such rules within the council. the council has not received a discharge since 2009, which shows an underestimated attitude towards parliament and thus towards european citizens, whose right to information and transparency is violated. parliament has thus been waiting for years for satisfactory information on the progress of real estate projects, material consumption and administrative updates. but there is no such data, and there is not. i therefore supported the motion for a resolution rejecting the budget discharge to the eu council and the european council, and i hope that in future the council will show greater respect for parliament and thus for the european citizens whom we represent in this parliament.
in writing. ‒ europe faces complex challenges in the fields of external affairs, migration and security. and the council is therefore becoming more operational in its work, with implications for its budget. for 2016, despite the overall reduction in the european budget, we are allocating more resources to the council itself for its functioning. six months have passed since parliament postponed the discharge to the council. unfortunately, we have still not received any information that would enable us to make a competent assessment of the implementation of its budget. in addition, we are once again turning to the interpretation of the 1970 friendship agreement. it's high time we put an end to this bureaucratic game. we can't just extend this agreement indefinitely. europe has changed a great deal in the last 45 years. more than ever, citizens expect transparency and accountability in spending. the parliament's report rejects the council's discharge in its entirety, and i am convinced that this is the only right move, which is why i voted in favour of it. as it is not enough to react only to the past, we must sanction this problem appropriately in the 2016 budget.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the general budget of the eu for the financial year 2013 - european council and council. i support the 2013 discharge, but i'm concerned about some unresolved issues. we are faced with a lack of trust in the european union and its institutions among citizens, and we must be very cautious and vigilant in all our actions. i agree with the view expressed in the report that the failure of the council to forward the requested documents to parliament undermines in particular the right of citizens of the union to information and transparency and is a cause for concern as it indicates a certain democratic deficit in the union institutions.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the second discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section ii european council and council. the parliament's decision not to grant the secretary-general of the council discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council and the council for the financial year 2013 is correct, as i consider that the council should have forwarded the requested documents to parliament and that its failure to do so undermines in particular the right of citizens of the union to information and transparency and is a cause for concern as it demonstrates a democratic deficit in the eu institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section ii, and on the resolution with observations forming an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section ii. the text acknowledges that all union institutions ought to be transparent and fully accountable to the citizens of the union for the funds entrusted to them as union institutions and that, whereas parliament is the sole directly elected body among the union institutions, it has responsibility to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union. at the same time i believe it is necessary to stress that the council continues to fail to provide answers to parliament’s questions and this needs to be improved.
in writing. ‒ liberia, sierra leone and guinea are at the bottom of the human development index, but they were also at the top of the world in terms of premature mortality rates for adults and children under five, mainly due to treatable diseases. in 2014, these countries were struck by the ebola virus of catastrophic proportions. added to this was widespread confusion and misunderstanding about the causes and consequences of ebola. this is the largest and most complex outbreak in the history of the disease, with an extremely slow international response in the first months of the outbreak. the ebola outbreak has shown that local and national health systems in low-income countries are under-resourced and under-sustainable to respond to an outbreak of a communicable disease such as ebola. strengthening global health systems has become an integral part of global health governance. i believe that all stakeholders, in particular developing country governments, european institutions and international organisations, should learn from this crisis and develop effective tools to manage international health crises. i agree that investment in the health sector is an important driver of economic development and contributes to poverty reduction in developing countries, which is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report on the ebola crisis: a long-term experience. as the report correctly notes, the ebola outbreak in west africa has shown that low-income countries are having a very difficult time dealing with outbreaks of diseases such as ebola. i support the call for greater access and affordability to a vaccine that has proven to be 100% effective in the fight against ebola. the key to all of this is for us all to learn from this crisis so that we can deal more effectively with similar health crises in the future.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the ebola crisis: long-term experience and ways to strengthen health systems in developing countries to prevent future crises, because i believe it is right to help the three poor countries, sierra leone, liberia and guinea, which clearly cannot cope with the problems on their own. these countries have many health and education shortcomings and the eu must respond to the challenges these three countries face on a daily basis in the fight against ebola.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the eu has a special responsibility when it comes to promoting the right to universal healthcare. the ebola epidemic which affected west africa is the largest and most complex outbreak in the history of the disease. sierra leone, liberia and guinea have been in the grip of the worst ever ebola crisis. diseases do not stop at borders, and so the ebola virus spread very quickly from one country to another. the text addresses member states, the commission, researchers, global organisations and institutions, humanitarian aid workers and medical staff on the ground and all relevant committees, acknowledging the achievements but at the same time emphasising that much more needs to be done in order to prevent future disasters. the eu should step up its efforts, so that others can follow its example. the eu’s voice must be heard, particularly this year, the year of development, under the slogan ‘our world, our dignity, our future’.
in writing. - i supported the motion. i am convinced that new standards on fuel consumption and emissions will do us no good if we do not respect the existing ones. they must be taken into account and not played off, as happened in the scandalous case of the volkswagen group. such behaviour is unacceptable and casts a very bad light on the entire european automotive industry. if we want to require other countries outside the eu to respect our laws, european companies should be the ones to do so most. the european commission has already reacted to the scandal, strongly condemning the abuses and calling on eu member states to launch national investigations into whether vehicles comply with european rules. the eu strategy to reduce fuel consumption and co2 emissions from heavy-duty vehicles (also applicable to buses) is also worth mentioning, as it represents a pathway to a low-carbon society and a plan to transform the eu into a low-carbon economy by 2050. it is clear that both the commission and the member states must do more to correct the irregularities, to strengthen and improve the controls and to ensure that consumers, who are among the most affected by such infringements, are properly informed.
in writing. i supported the resolution because i strongly condemn any fraud by car manufacturers, as excess emissions affect human health and cause environmental damage. it is essential that the commission and the member states, and in particular car manufacturers, take concrete measures to restore consumer confidence quickly. the commission should therefore adopt as soon as possible a new test cycle based on real driving emissions, and at the same time apply such a test to other pollutants, allowing consumers to make decisions based on comprehensive and unbiased technical characteristics. it is necessary to strengthen the existing ec vehicle type-approval regime, including by increasing the supervision of authorities in the member states, and the commission should also take further measures to strengthen the ec strategy for sustainable transport, leading to a real reduction in real transport emissions and improving urban mobility.
in writing. ‒ fair competition between car manufacturers is essential, as only then can the consumer make a decision on the basis of these comprehensive and impartial technical characteristics. under the euro 5 and euro 6 standards regulation, manufacturers are required to ensure that vehicles comply with the emission requirements during normal use. the regulation also expressly prohibits the use of switching devices and calls on the commission to introduce tests and acceptance measures for the use of switching mechanisms. i agree with the request that the commission introduce tests for real-world emissions generated during driving for all vehicles type-approved or registered after 2015 to ensure the effectiveness of emission control systems. i also find important the emphasis in the report on strengthening the existing eu type-approval system, including through more eu controls (in particular market surveillance, harmonisation and monitoring of vehicles sold in the union). the resolution was amended by the epp political group, which supports the use of diesel engines in cars, while also stating that diesel engines have lower exhaust emissions than other equivalent vehicles using petrol. since the amendment was adopted in the sitting and since the green group finds it unacceptable, i voted against the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on emission measurements in the automotive sector. the european commission should verify and, if necessary, improve the quality and reliability of the processes related to emission testing and certification in the european union. the volkswagen scandal highlights the (un) reliability of the systems and procedures used to verify emissions compliance rather than the rigidity of european standards compared to american standards. the automotive industry in the european union is very important both in terms of its contribution to reducing emissions and combating climate change and in terms of employment. in slovenia too, we have companies that employ a lot of people as suppliers to large car groups. it is therefore important to restore the confidence of customers, which has been undermined by this scandal.
in writing. ‒ i supported the joint motion for a resolution on emission measurement in the automotive sector, as i believe that air pollution in the eu causes too many negative effects on the health and lives of eu citizens every year, and the cost of the health effects of pollution on the population is also more than eur 900 billion per year. in addition to many diseases and high costs, pollutants also contribute to environmental degradation. one third of the eu's urban population is still exposed to pollution, and 20 member states still fall short of eu air quality limit values.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the emissions testing fraud should be investigated thoroughly and those responsible should face appropriate sanctions. i agree that eu emissions testing system should be strengthened to ensure that eu emission limits are respected and that vehicles exceeding these limits are discovered quickly. i strongly condemn any fraud by automobile manufacturers and deplore the fact that millions of consumers have been deceived, and regret the damage to human health and the environment from excessive emissions.
first vice-president of the commission.– mr president, the motto of our work programme this year is ‘no time for business as usual’ and anybody in this room or around europe who has followed this morning’s debate will agree with me that this is no time for business as usual. that is why the commission today commits to making bold, focused and pragmatic proposals to allow us to overcome our common challenges and emerge stronger in the spirit of european solidarity and responsibility. president juncker’s ten priorities, which are both our mission statement and the basis on which we were appointed to office by you, remain the right ones. last year we said we would do different things and do things differently. we are concentrating on the big things. we have set out our vision and the concrete measures necessary in various areas: investment plan, digital single market, energy union, european agenda on security, european agenda on migration, capital markets union, action plan for fair and efficient corporate taxation, new trade strategy, deepened and strengthened economic and monetary union. tomorrow we will present the single market strategy. still this year, we will complete the picture with our plans for a sustainable circular economy, labour mobility and better management of our external borders. the work programme the commission adopted today and its 23 key initiatives is focused on implementing these strategies. it represents a substantive legislative agenda. there will be a lot of work on the table for this parliament. members have all received a copy of the work programme hot-off-the-press so i assume not all of them will have read it. that is why i would like to point to five important issues which i would like to stress in particular. first, we will continue to prioritise the refugee and migration challenge. the european agenda on migration provides a comprehensive response. immediate actions have been taken and i am very grateful to this house and its president for the speed with which you have acted and for the leadership you have consistently shown. we now propose new measures to improve migration management both to overhaul the dublin system for asylum and to set out a new approach to legal migration. this will complement the strengthened border management proposals we will table by the end of the year, including a european border and coastguard. secondly, we have to keep our sights firmly on creating jobs, growth and investment. the investment fund is now operational, thanks again to the commitments of this house and the speed with which it has worked, and is delivering high quality investments to further boost the european economy, including in research. we now will focus on improving the investment environment and deepening the single market so that it delivers better outcomes, fewer barriers and the right environment for innovation, especially among smes and start—ups. we will present a range of concrete proposals to implement the digital single market strategy. we will also present sectoral strategies on space and defence. thirdly, the eu being a lead player in the paris climate talks, we will follow up with three important packages under the energy union. we will deliver a circular economy package to maximise resource efficiency throughout the whole value chain. we will set out a new approach to ensure europe’s economic, social and environmental sustainability, taking into account the europe 2020 review and the united nation’s sustainable development goals. fourthly, we want to make 2016 a year of real social progress. we will present a new skills agenda aimed at helping people get quality jobs, in particular in the digital era. we will set out legislative and non-legislative action to give a new start to work/life balance for parents, including to support women in the workplace. the labour mobility proposals we will present still this year will help people use the opportunities of free movement whilst addressing abuses in the benefits system and social dumping. free movement should not be a threat to social protection. the 2016 european semester will put a stronger focus on the economic and fiscal situation in the euro area as a whole and on member states’ employment and social performance. this will be complemented by the development of a european pillar of social rights which will modernise and address the gaps in existing social protection legislation and identify social benchmarks built on national best practices with a view to upwards convergence, in particular of course in the euro area. fifthly, the commission will also press for further progress towards fair, efficient and growth–friendly corporate taxation, based on the principle that companies should pay taxes in the country where profits are generated. we will present a set of measures to enhance transparency of the corporate tax system and fight tax avoidance. we will also present an action plan for a more efficient and fraud–proof vat regime. i wanted to stress these five points to you today as i cannot list everything here. the commission will, of course, also continue to implement the european security agenda to tackle terrorism and organised crime and follow up on the trade and investment strategy as well as the five presidents’ report for a more resilient and prosperous economic and monetary union. given all these challenges, it is essential to make the best use of all our resources. the eu budget must be geared to results and the mid–term review of the multiannual financial framework will look at how to make sure that we target our funding better on priorities such as the refugee crisis while also putting a stronger focus on achieving results. the challenges such as migration, access to energy and other resources, and climate change also show the need for an effective external dimension to deliver on major internal policy objectives. today more than ever before you can no longer distinguish between internal and external – i just want to point to the sustainable development goals, they can no longer distinguish between the two elements. the commission will make a substantive contribution to the new global strategy on foreign and security policy – also, here, internal and external go hand in hand. two final points. one: this commission also said we would do things differently. all the actions we propose are underpinned by our new better regulation agenda. we remain committed to making sure that when the eu intervenes it does so in a way that will deliver results and make a positive difference on the ground. our work programme includes our plans to review key areas of existing legislation such as health and safety at the workplace, to ensure that they are fit for purpose and continue to deliver on our ambitious policy objectives. we also propose a number of withdrawals of initiatives which have become obsolete or watered down and have no chance to be adopted. the list is considerably shorter than last year which was a moment of political discontinuity. in line with our commitment under the framework agreement we will only enact the withdrawals once we have heard your views. my second concluding point is that the work programme cannot deliver results without sufficient ownership of the co–legislators. again, here, it takes, strangely enough, three to tango. the commission’s work programme reflects the commission’s right of initiative and we take full responsibility for the choices we make. but for the eu to be strong it needs to be able to demonstrate that all our institutions are ready to set europe’s agenda together and can work together swiftly and in agreement to reach our goals. in preparing our work programme we have taken account of the views you have expressed, including in your resolution and i think there is a very broad degree of convergence. i think everyone will agree that our joint working methods for this years’ dialogue were much improved, for instance with the new cluster format in the college–conference of committee chairs (ccc) discussions, and i am grateful for all the input we have received from the committees and their chairs, as well as the groups and the group leaders. i want to thank all the group leaders for their leadership in this. i want to thank president schulz for having taken this so seriously and helped us to organise the work better. i also want to thank president buzek for taking the responsibility for doing the same with the ccc. i hope this will help us reach a common understanding of the pending and future proposals on which we hope the co–legislators will commit to proceed quickly. i am looking forward to working closely with you in 2016 as well and i am glad that we were able to improve our working methods to the satisfaction, i hope, of both our institutions.
first vice-president of the commission.– mr president, the best news today is that ms morvai called president juncker her beloved leader. this is something i will cherish and take back to the commission. secondly, perhaps i should explain very briefly, this is just a presentation of the commission work programme; nothing more nothing less. we will have ample opportunity in time to discuss all the elements of the commission work programme. i count on parliament not to make statements about something else or to make big grandstanding gestures on certain political issues, but to take us to the task of looking precisely at the precise proposals the commission makes, and come to common conclusions on that. this is extremely important, and sometimes this commission takes this parliament more seriously than some of the members of this parliament on the extremes of these benches do. this commission will engage fully with parliament to make sure that what we do is in line with both your priorities and ours and that we take common decisions that are highly needed. i was just reading a report from the bertelsmann foundation, let me quote it directly: ʻtoday in europe 26 million children and young people are threatened by poverty and social exclusionʼ. this is what should be driving our work. this is what we should be doing, in concrete measures. do you know how much unemployment there is among young people in so many of our member states? that is why we want structural reform, that is why we have the efsi, that is why we want to create opportunities in the digital single market and in the internal market. that is why we need to make sure that people no longer see freedom of movement as a threat to their social position but as an opportunity to perform better and to create careers. that is why we need to put proposals on the table that will lead to better social protection for european citizens, as long as the european union is competent in these areas. yes, there are always elements where we could do better, that is why we are here to listen to you, so that we can do better. but in the process, let me end on this. we are now talking intensively with your institution, the european parliament, represented by guy verhofstadt, and the council to make sure that we do better in the way we legislate together. i hope we can come to a conclusion between the three institutions that shows clearly that we have understood the message from our constituents and our citizens. the message is that we need to do better in the way we prepare legislation so as to avoid making mistakes, and to avoid what ms in 't veld was pointing to: that we sometimes adopt decisions knowing full well that they are good because they represent a compromise, but are not good because once you apply them in the member states businesses suffer and citizens suffer and the court will have to correct them. let us try and prevent this from happening by having full and detailed impact assessments before we take a decision, so that we can avoid creating more and more red tape for our businesses and that we can start cutting red tape, instead of the other way around. this is where this commission stands, and action is highly needed. i think this is one of the few moments in our common history that the project itself is being challenged in an existential way. everything has come together like a perfect storm: the economic crisis, the financial crisis, the refugee crisis, international threats, the climate crisis, the environmental crisis and the sustainability crisis. everything has come together and threatens the very livelihood of europeans. the european project should be an answer to that. this modest commission work programme is part of a bigger answer we need to give to this challenge. but without this commission work programme, the way we do business between the three institutions would not be as efficient. let me reiterate that this commission stands ready to work closely with the european parliament to make sure that we deliver results for european citizens.
in writing. at the october plenary, the european commission presented its work programme for 2016, telling citizens that it is time for a different approach. the focus is on the ten priorities already committed to by the commission in its political guidelines and their implementation. the commission will focus in 2016 on measures to tackle the refugee crisis, create jobs, boost growth and the single market, ensure tax fairness and promote economic, social and environmental sustainability. i too believe that the commission must decisively break the current eu stagnation. the guidelines in force to date are unfortunately based on the priorities of pre-crisis europe and maintain the rigid economic policies that actually led to this crisis. in particular, the commission should commit itself more strongly in its future work to appropriate interinstitutional consultation and to the establishment of a list of legislation to be revised within the framework of the regulatory fitness and performance programme. however, i would like to point out that the programme should not be used as an excuse to lower ambition, deregulate or lower social and environmental standards. it's the quality that counts, not the quantity.
a week ago, the council called on the european parliament to be realistic in adopting the 2016 budget of the european union. the proposed amendments are a very realistic response to the problems we face in the european union, such as refugees, unemployment and the growing disparities between member states. to be able to cooperate and protect one of the european union's fundamental acquisitions, schengen and the free movement of people, the member states along the balkan route need funds. it is true that when spending resources, there is a lot of room for manoeuvre to spend them more efficiently and effectively. tomorrow, in this very room, we will be discussing access to finance for small and medium-sized enterprises. the european commission's report on the performance of smes finds that access to finance remains the main obstacle for smes, despite a number of activities and initiatives to improve it. it is on such and such points that public money is being wasted, which we desperately need, and which makes budgetary debates a battle over and over again. things that don't work need to be changed, and that will free up resources. i am therefore pleased that the commission will pay more attention to impact assessments and evaluation of legislation. well, at least that's what she announced in her may agenda for better regulation.
drafting a budget is always a very demanding project, which can never satisfy everyone. and when i read this draft budget and, of course, the tendency to reduce appropriations, especially in certain areas, including horizon 2020, and when i see that we are still on opposite sides of the aisle between the council and parliament as regards the amount of individual appropriations, i naturally ask myself who is really setting the priorities for the financial cut. but i would also like to touch on something else, something that mr jakovčić has also mentioned. of course, the main priority now is how to solve the refugee crisis, and i think that's the main priority of the european commission, and therefore also how to act, how to help the member states that are most affected, how to channel resources there to actually stop these flows, to actually get to europe. and another thing: if we don't do it today, the price in the future will be much, much higher.
the impasse in the peace process between israel and palestine has opened the door to a new wave of violence, sparked by radical palestinian groups. this is happening in the shadow of the syrian war, but it cannot be underestimated, because it can reach a very large scale. violence begets violence, and both sides bear responsibility, but not equally. hamas' support for the latest terrorist attacks on israel, its encouragement of plans for terrorist attacks on the west bank, its refusal to recognize israel, all of this does not promote peace and stability. israel has the right to defend itself. it is urgent that both sides return to peace negotiations on the basis of the two-state concept. israel has repeatedly expressed its willingness to negotiate directly, without preconditions, but president abbas has rejected it. there is a growing need for the eu to redefine its contribution to the settlement of this issue and to make its assistance to the palestinian side conditional on its return to the negotiating table.
on behalf of the ppe group. as shadow rapporteur for the adriatic-ionian strategy, i would first like to thank my colleague mr jakovčić for his excellent cooperation and the quality of the document. we are talking about a third macro-region, which covers a very diverse area: four countries that are members of the european union, four countries that want to be. 70 million people live in this area, an area with very great differences within the region, within the individual country, and that is why we have set these key objectives to establish good cooperation within the macro-region, good development opportunities and to prepare good life opportunities for everyone, especially the young people in this area. the four pillars of this macro-region are fundamental: blue growth, i.e. the promotion of economic growth linked to the sea, linked to the rest of the economy. integration in the region, as regards transport corridors, rail, road, sea corridors, opportunities of the north adriatic ports in the area. we talked about energy connections, we talked about the environment as a key parameter for a good living environment and, of course, sustainable tourism. the characteristics of this area are that it has been affected by all the hardships of today, both the extraordinary economic crisis and the refugee-migrant crisis. what is very problematic is that today in this region, in the refugee crisis, the poor cooperation of these countries has been shown, even the commission had to call the leaders from these areas to start serious talks. i therefore hope and wish that this strategy, the implementation of this strategy with the help of the commission, will provide the right basis for people in this region to start to really cooperate with each other and to make economic development happen. in slovenia we have a saying that you meet a friend in need, and in this area, first the countries should become friends with each other, and in europe they should find that friend who will help in the better development of this area.
in writing. cohesion policy is one of the most important investment tools contributing to the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives. in the new 2014-2020 perspective, cohesion policy, with its thematic conditionality and the partnership agreements setting investment targets, is particularly focused on achieving the europe 2020 objectives. i agree with my colleague ruas, who has produced a strong report, that strengthening multi-level governance is particularly important to achieve these objectives. in the future, it will also be important to use truly territorial approaches to the europe 2020 strategy in order to adapt public measures and investments to different territorial characteristics and specific needs. the commission should also be able to use the appropriations entered in this article to finance the expenditure incurred by the union in the context of the european solidarity corps. but we will probably also consider this synergy when designing future cohesion policy.
health and environmental protection are two things that are very much in focus in europe, and i think that europe can and should be an example to other countries around the world in these areas. the steps have already been taken in the past, in the next steps i follow what is also the position of the european people's party, that we must be moderate in these steps and at the same time take into account both the expectations and certainly the need to protect the environment on the one hand and on the other hand also give those who are involved in both industry and agriculture the opportunity to adapt their techniques to these new requirements. unjustified or excessively high demands would be counterproductive, for they would either not be accepted or not be respected. so we have to be precise in this case and act in accordance with the requirements of a healthier environment as well as the environment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016. a week ago, the council called on the european parliament to be realistic in adopting the eu budget for 2016. the proposed amendments are a very realistic response to the problems we face in the eu, such as refugees, unemployment and the growing disparities between member states. to cooperate and protect one of the eu's fundamental acquisitions, schengen and the free movement of people, the countries along the balkan route need funds. it is true that when eu funds are spent, there is a lot of room for manoeuvre to spend them more efficiently and effectively.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016 as it provides the necessary financial resources for all the political challenges of the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the general budget of the european union for 2016. the resolution highlights that the union is currently facing a number of serious emergencies, notably the unprecedented migration and refugee crisis, on which there is substantial focus in the 2016 budget. the main areas of the budget are: competitiveness for growth and jobs; economic, social and territorial cohesion; sustainable growth: natural resources; security and citizenship; global europe and administrative and research support expenditure. parliament’s estimates for 2016 were set at eur 1 823 648 600, which corresponds to a 1.6% increase over the 2015 budget; in addition, eur 15 million have been earmarked for urgent investments in security and cyber security, setting the overall level of its 2016 budget at eur 1 838 648 600.
in writing. as in so many previous years, we are again witnessing a general reduction in budgetary items. this year, it's a little under 2 billion euros, of which 1.4 billion on the payments side. in the council's proposal, i am particularly concerned that the cuts will have a significant impact on the competitiveness for growth and jobs section, where the council is proposing a reduction of well over half a billion euro. as many as half of these cuts will be severely affected by horizon 2020. and let me stress that we are talking about an additional reduction after part of the funds of this programme have already been reallocated to the efsi. the council notes that the proposed amounts reflect the actual level of budget implementation in previous years and are in line with a realistic estimate of future drawing capacity. i wonder if we would not be more responsible if we improved the volume of appropriations instead of adjusting the budgetary lines to these unsatisfactory conditions. i strongly hope that we will be able to reconcile the positions of all three institutions involved in the budgetary procedure in the final budget for 2016. the commission, the council and the parliament, as the driving force of the european union, have a duty to achieve the objectives we have committed ourselves to in the europe 2020 strategy, and budget cuts will certainly not help to achieve this. the parliament's report rightly removes all the cuts in the council's proposal, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016. a week ago, the council called on the european parliament to be realistic in adopting the eu budget for 2016. the proposed amendments are a very realistic response to the problems we face in the eu, such as refugees, unemployment and the growing disparities between member states. to cooperate and protect one of the eu's fundamental acquisitions, schengen and the free movement of people, the countries along the balkan route need funds. it is true that when eu funds are spent, there is a lot of room for manoeuvre to spend them more efficiently and effectively.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the council's position on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016, as the proposal provides the necessary financial resources for all the union's political challenges, provides the necessary financial resources for the migration and refugee crisis, takes action on the current crisis of european farmers, seeks to address the shortcomings in the union's economy, highlights the key role of smes and social enterprises, promotes youth employment and preserves funding for existing union policy programmes.
in writing. ‒ in 2011, the court of justice of the european union launched a legislative initiative to amend its statute to allow the appointment of 12 additional judges to the general court. the court then stated the need to reduce the number of cases per judge and the duration of their term of office at the general court. in 2013, the court reduced its request to 9 judges, but before that the european parliament had already approved an additional 12 judges. in october 2014, the court of justice proposed that the number of judges appointed to the general court be doubled to a final number of 56 judges, as the number of judges appointed did not correspond to the number of member states and as this led to misunderstandings. i agree that the reform of the court of justice of the european union is very necessary, as ensuring legal certainty and a trial within a reasonable time is one of the fundamental rights of eu citizens. the general court is faced with a huge number of applications and appeals which subsequently require a considerable amount of time to be dealt with. although i think the number of new judges, i.e. 28, is somewhat excessive, i strongly support the provision on gender equality in the appointment of new judges and the provision on the compulsory reporting of the court on this. in supporting the recommendation for a second reading with a view to adopting the regulation, i supported the amendments in the plenary session, reflecting the outcome of the negotiations between the european parliament and the european council.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for a second reading. the initiative to appoint additional judges started as early as 2011 and over the years we have reached a compromise between the european commission, the council and the european parliament. a functioning judiciary is one of the most important pillars of the rule of law. we need a well-functioning european justice system. i support the compromise reached on the appointment of 28 additional judges. i am sure that this will reduce the delays that are occurring. and then, in a few years, we'll have an audit clause to see if the changes have been as effective as we all hope.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending protocol (no 3) on the statute of the court of justice of the european union, as i consider that the european parliament was right to reject the council's position. at a time when the eu is imposing severe austerity measures, it would be disrespectful to the european taxpayer to recklessly increase the consumption of public funds. this is not just about doubling the number of judges, but also about increasing the number of professional associates and assistants. the abolition of the civil service tribunal would, however, leave aside the specialised courts, which are known to provide a better quality of judgment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation because i think there is a need for reform in the court of justice. the reform involves increasing the number of judges in the general court to 47 as from 1 september 2016 and to two judges per member state as from 1 september 2019. as a follow-up to the reform of the general court, yearly figures on its judicial activity should be presented and, if necessary, appropriate measures suggested. at the second and third stages of the enlargement of the general court, an assessment of the situation will take place which, if necessary, could lead to certain adjustments, notably in terms of the court’s administrative expenditure. it is also highly important to ensure gender balance within the general court. in order to achieve that objective, partial replacements in that court should be organised in such a way that the governments of member states gradually begin to nominate two judges for the same partial replacement with the aim of choosing one woman and one man, provided that the conditions and procedures laid down by the treaty are respected.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposed recommendation as its adoption confirms the eu council's position on the regulation on certain provisions for fisheries in the area covered by the agreement of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm agreement). the proposed amendments incorporate into the european legal order several recommendations of the said commission, thus providing an appropriate framework for multilateral cooperation to promote the development, conservation, sound management and best use of living marine resources in the mediterranean and black sea. i am pleased that the co-legislators have reached an agreement on the most appropriate mechanisms for granting derogations. the fishing patterns in the black sea and the mediterranean differ considerably because of the different areas and conditions. the adopted recommendation thus allows for certain derogations from the prohibition of inshore trawl fishing in the black sea, with the derogations to be managed by the member states and the commission being given the right to monitor. in particular, this means the approval of a limited number of vessels that will be able to use trawls in the black sea coastal area on an exceptional basis. in addition, certain derogations are provided for in the case of red coral colony monitoring, such as the continued possibility to use remotely controlled underwater red coral monitoring and tracking devices, provided that the devices do not contain cutting and gathering devices.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for a second reading on certain provisions for fisheries in the area of the agreement of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean. the vote on the council position was prepared by the latvian presidency and coordinated in the trilogue. while many measures are aimed at economic and technological development, job creation and economic growth, this growth must be sustainable. in addition to resource efficiency and carbon reduction, we must also work for our marine ecosystem. i therefore voted in favour of the recommendation, as the transposition of the gfcm recommendations in the mediterranean into eu law will provide an appropriate framework for multilateral cooperation to promote the development, conservation, sound management and best use of living marine resources in the mediterranean and the black sea.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation for second reading on the council position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1343/2011 on certain provisions for fisheries in the area covered by the gfcm (general fisheries commission for the mediterranean) agreement, as i believe that by transposing the gfcm recommendations into the union legal order, we will provide an appropriate framework for multilateral cooperation to promote the development, conservation, sound management and best exploitation of living marine resources in the mediterranean and the black sea to a degree that is considered sustainable and does not pose a risk of their depletion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on provisions for fishing in the gfcm (general fisheries commission for the mediterranean) agreement area. the text outlines the agreement on the transposition into the union law of several recommendations made by the gfcm, which provide an appropriate framework for multilateral cooperation to promote the development, conservation, rational management and best utilisation of living marine resources in the mediterranean and the black sea at levels which are considered sustainable and at low risk of collapse. a good step forward was the compromise, accepted by all the eu institutions, in relation to the issue of how to grant derogations on the harvesting and the minimum basal diameter of colonies of red coral. the agreement also provides that, in the meantime, member states which already have national frameworks in place can maintain them, and those who wish to set up national frameworks they can do so provisionally, provided that an appropriate national management framework is in place.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposed decision to reject the proposed regulation as it is an extremely bad commission proposal that does not take reality into account. the regulation should be based on a clear analysis of the health, environmental and social consequences of the proposed scheme. the commission did not present these effects, nor the consequences for european agriculture. the shortage of non-gmo protein feed in the eu livestock sector is huge. we are not faced with the social effects of possible farm failures in the eu, nor with the estimates of the food market, which would certainly increase in price if the proposed regulation were adopted so hastily. in the european agricultural model, such a shift requires a clear plan, cap measures must be in place and there must be enough time to transform agriculture. food security consists of food that is safe for health and of sufficient food at an affordable price. the least that could happen is that many people would not have access to food because it would become too expensive. a hungry man is not food-secure. moreover, the implementation of the regulation would be practically impossible, as it would be very difficult to establish a traceability system for food and feed in the first place. the regulation would also be incompatible with the eu's free market, since border controls would have to be introduced if its provisions were to be consistently implemented.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report calling on the commission to present a new, improved proposal for a regulation. in view of the failure to carry out an impact assessment, the required compliance of the member states' measures with the internal market rules and, in general, the (non) feasibility of the proposal in practice, i rejected the existing commission proposal. i expected the commission to review the current procedure for the authorisation of gmos and to come up with a proposal to that effect, rather than simply copying the concept of the recently amended gmo directive, which is the basis for the exemption or exclusion of the gmo-producing area, as the situation here is very different. unfortunately, the commission proposal would not contribute to greater transparency, nor would it provide the necessary legal certainty and the appropriate tools for member states wishing to restrict or prohibit the use of gm food and feed on their territory.
in writing. ‒ in april 2015, the commission published a proposal proposing that, with regard to genetically modified food and feed, member states should be allowed to restrict or prohibit them under certain conditions. those national measures should be reasonable and justified on substantial grounds which should not conflict with the risk assessment carried out by the european food safety authority, and should be proportionate and non-discriminatory. i share the concerns expressed in the report on the non-implementation of the impact assessment regarding the compatibility of the measures taken by the member states with internal market and wto rules and the practical feasibility of the proposal. as the eu is still heavily dependent on the supply of protein from genetically modified sources and as the proposal could have an indirect negative impact on imports, i believe that it could seriously threaten livestock production and have a negative impact on eu agriculture. the proposal also fails to provide the necessary legal certainty and the appropriate tools for member states wishing to restrict or prohibit by law the use of genetically modified food and feed on their territory. the possibility of such a restriction or prohibition would re-establish a form of border control between member states, thus reversing the economic achievements of the european customs union and the single market. i voted for the report because of what it says.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the possibility for member states to restrict or prohibit the use of genetically modified food and feed on their territory, which rejects the proposal of the european commission. this proposal was also rejected by a large majority in the competent committees of the european parliament. the european commission's proposal is not realistic, because it is not feasible. the european union has spent a long time working to establish an internal market and to abolish customs duties. if we wanted to implement this commission proposal, we would have to re-introduce customs duties, which would of course have a very negative impact on the internal market. the commission proposal lacks an impact assessment and alternative options.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 (to reject the council proposal) as regards the possibility for member states to restrict or prohibit the use of genetically modified food and feed on their territory, as member states should have the right and freedom to restrict and prohibit genetically modified food and feed on their territory if they have evidence that genetically modified food and feed have adverse effects on human health or the environment.
in writing. i supported the report because of the need to reform european legislation on foodstuffs and novel foods, which aims to protect human health and to enable innovation and access to food consumed outside europe. under the new regulation, the procedures for the safety assessment and authorisation of a novel food will be harmonised at ec level. for each novel food that may have an impact on human health, the european food safety authority will provide an assessment.
in writing. - i voted for the new food report. all legislation needs to be updated all the time. the food industry has changed a lot in recent years, it has advanced a lot, and so has technology, so we can't wait any longer to change the law. we need solutions that meet the needs of the market and the challenges of today. this regulation is good and balanced. we need to reduce the administrative burden on smes and encourage progress and innovation in the food sector across europe. we can't give up our standards, which are the highest in the world.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on novel foods, as, in compliance with this regulation, no new food to be placed on the market will have a negative impact on human health, consumer interests or the functioning of the internal market. the content of the new novel food regulation is also meaningful and necessary in the light of the scientific and technological progress of the food industry since 1997 the food sector has become one of the most competitive and innovative sectors in the union internal market and it is appropriate that the legislation reflects the new situation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on novel foods because i agree that the free movement of safe and wholesome food is an essential aspect of the internal market and contributes significantly to the health and wellbeing of citizens, and to their social and economic interests. differences between national laws concerning the safety assessment and authorisation of novel foods may hinder the free movement of such food, thereby creating legal uncertainty and unfair conditions of competition. on the basis of scientific and technological developments, it is appropriate to review, clarify and update the categories of food which constitute novel foods.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposed directive with the reasonable compromise amendments adopted, as i support the eu's transition to a low-carbon society. under reasonable and realistic conditions, of course. the transition must not be at the expense of agriculture and industry, the two biggest polluters. i am glad that the envi committee's proposals, which set unrealistically high targets, were rejected. for example, among all eu member states, slovenia would be the most expensive to implement. i am also pleased that methane is excluded from the proposal for a directive and that an adjustment scheme is proposed for ammonia. in my view, this ensures the competitiveness of industry and agriculture.
in writing. i supported the report because the european union needs legislation to limit more emissions of the main air pollutants, including ammonia. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'air pollution' to cover all air pollution.
in writing. ‒ the report on the proposal for a directive on the reduction of national emissions of certain air pollutants sets binding national emission reduction commitments for 2020, 2025 and 2030. the aim is to limit emissions of air pollutants and to contribute effectively to the eu's objective of achieving better air quality. the aim is to reduce the negative effects on human health caused by air pollution. the aim is to improve the quality of life of eu citizens and to promote the transition to a green economy. in order to effectively reduce emissions of the major air pollutants, national air pollution control programmes should include measures applicable to all relevant sectors, including agriculture, industry, road transport, inland waterway transport and domestic maritime transport, domestic heating and solvents. taking into account specific national circumstances, member states should be able to implement measures which are not provided for in this directive but which are equally environmentally effective. i myself abstained from voting on the commission's proposal as amended, mainly because the ambitious demands for emission reductions were not supported by the majority of the european parliament. i supported the proposal to postpone the legislative resolution in order to allow the opening of negotiations on the first position between the european parliament and the european council.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the reduction of national emissions of certain air pollutants and amending directive 2003/35/ec, because i believe that air quality is important for human health and the environment and that the current situation of air pollutants requires immediate, global and responsible action.
in writing. ‒ the european citizens' initiative is a unique and innovative tool for programming in the context of participatory democracy in the european union. it allows citizens to participate actively in the projects and processes that concern them. this ensures that every citizen has the opportunity to participate in the democratic life of the eu through direct access to the european commission by inviting it to submit a legislative proposal for an eu legal act. the european citizens' initiative is a unique opportunity for eu citizens to express their wishes and demand appropriate action by the eu institutions. however, it is not currently an effective instrument for ensuring participatory democracy, as there are many systemic deficiencies. in the further evaluation of this tool, efforts should be made to ensure that it is as user-friendly as possible, as it is the main means of connecting european citizens with the eu. the report proposes, among other things, concrete measures to improve the effectiveness of the citizens' initiative, such as better information for citizens through the online one-stop-shop and a precise definition of the reasons for the rejection of the initiative. on the other hand, the report lacks a clear definition of the rights of the european citizens' initiative. in addition, the report does not meet all the requirements for a successful and efficient european citizens' initiative, which is why i abstained from voting on the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european citizens' initiative. today we are faced with a serious lack of trust among citizens in the european union, its institutions and policies. despite voting for their representatives in the european parliament, citizens feel cut off from decision-making. so we all have a responsibility and a calling to change that. the european citizens' initiative makes a major contribution to strengthening participatory democracy by enabling citizens to actively participate in projects and processes that affect them. i agree that this potential needs to be fully exploited and substantially strengthened.
in writing. ‒ i supported the eci report because i believe that this will improve the functioning of the eci and make it more user-friendly. the people's vote is very important. we also want to remove some of the obstacles that have proved to be a source of problems for the organisers of the initiative.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the european citizens’ initiative (eci). the aim of the text is to improve the functioning of the eci, to make it more user-friendly, to raise awareness about it and to eliminate some of the obstacles that have proved a source of difficulty for eci organisers. the european citizens’ initiative is one of the most important tools for citizens’ participation in democratic decisions at european level, hence it should be more citizen-friendly. in this resolution we also call on the commission to recommend to member states that they lower the age for supporting and participating in a citizens’ initiative from 18 to 16 – a step which could increase democracy and participation, including among young people.
in writing. ‒ the proposed report on the eu strategy for the adriatic-ionian region i also participated intensively in its preparation as shadow rapporteur for the epp political group i naturally supported it, as it offers a number of recommendations and incentives to the commission and the involved member states of the macro-region. it encourages them to become more actively involved in order to improve economic cooperation and create jobs in areas that are underdeveloped in relation to their potential (i.e. blue growth), to plan together transport and energy policies and to take a coordinated approach to environmental protection. the action plan for this part of europe thus envisages improving and integrating the tourist offer with a focus on sustainable tourism and expects improvements in transport and energy infrastructure. the strategy thus puts all the instruments of european policy at the disposal of the countries and allows them to link and use more efficiently and to a greater extent the resources already available from the newly established european fund for strategic investments (efsi) to regular funds from european cohesion policy as well as horizon 2020, life, erasmus plus and the like. the current migration crisis shows that the cooperation of these countries is weak, and i hope that this strategy will provide the right basis for cooperation, especially with the leading politicians from the region. this is primarily a guarantee for further economic development.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the european union's strategy for the adriatic-ionian region is important because of its strategic nature and for promoting sustainable economic growth, reducing social disparities in the region, improving transport connectivity, accelerating the integration of the western balkans into the eu and so on. however, in this place, as a green mep, i would like to focus on the environmental quality pillar, which is one of the four main pillars of the strategy. the adriatic-ionian region is of growing importance for the eu's energy security. i want to express my concern about the construction of energy infrastructure, oil and gas exploration, because the adriatic and ionian seas are very sensitive. for this reason, i believe it is essential to respect eu legislation, especially during the environmental impact assessment phases. here, a concerted approach is needed to protect the sea and also to protect biodiversity. despite the importance of joint energy policy planning and the objective of meeting energy and gas needs, we must be careful not to place too much pressure on the adriatic and the ionian sea as well, in the face of all these changes. as this strategy is important for the development, better integration and progress of the region, i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu strategy for the adriatic-ionian region. the initiative brings together eight countries along the adriatic and ionian seas. in addition to slovenia, where i come from, these include albania, bosnia and herzegovina, montenegro, greece, croatia, italy, and serbia. in 2012, slovenia also chaired the initiative for one year. i support the report which welcomes the commission's communication, which regards the initiative as an important step in the development of this part of europe. the basic idea behind a macro-regional strategy is that better cooperation and coordination are more useful than individual initiatives to deal more effectively and successfully with the specific challenges common to a given cross-border area.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the eu strategy for the adriatic region because i believe that the commission will focus on boosting investment through the investment plan and the european fund for strategic investments, which represents a great opportunity for the countries of the adriatic region to fill their investment gaps of the past years. eusair is also an opportunity to channel these investments in a way that benefits the whole region.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on an eu strategy for the adriatic and ionian region, which is based on the new eu strategy for the adriatic and ionian region (eusair). the eusair covers eight countries equally represented by eu member states (croatia, greece, italy and slovenia) and non-eu countries, all of which have either ‘candidate’ (albania, montenegro and serbia) or ‘potential candidate’ membership status (bosnia and herzegovina). the region is home to more than 70 million people and plays a key role in strengthening geographical continuity in europe, which also has a direct impact on my own country, slovenia. with this strategy we can take advantage of the exceptional opportunity given to the countries in the region to turn a page on past economic and political problems by working together, with the commission’s guidance, to pursue prosperity and sustainable development.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy is the eu's main policy for investment growth and development. it is aligned with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, which aims to close the gap between regions and promote convergence. the eu is still facing the consequences of the economic and financial crisis (high unemployment, uneven and slow economic recovery), so it is essential that the different eu initiatives for growth, jobs and environmental and climate protection maintain a coherent approach. i believe that the review of the europe 2020 strategy must take into account the serious and diverse consequences of the economic and financial crisis for the member states. the implementation of cohesion policy is lagging behind in the current programming period, as implementation of most operational programmes is still at a very early stage, despite the already existing certainty. cohesion policy is the eu's key instrument for investing in the real economy and is an expression of european solidarity, as it increases growth and prosperity and reduces economic, social and territorial disparities. i welcome the report as it has provided a better insight into the current evolution of cohesion policy towards the europe 2020 strategy and has shown that a better investment environment could be ensured to maximise the contribution of cohesion policy to the achievement of the strategy's guiding objectives. i supported the report because of what it said.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on cohesion policy and the review of the europe 2020 strategy. the eu is still reeling from the effects of the economic and financial crisis. this is reflected in particular in the high youth unemployment. the europe 2020 strategy aims at smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. i share the concern expressed in the report that there are delays in the implementation of cohesion policy, even though most of the operational programmes have already been set. at the same time, i welcome the fact that the european commission is constantly working to improve the europe 2020 strategy. the objectives are relevant, and there is a lot more to be done to achieve them. the responsibility for achieving the objectives should be primarily borne by local, regional and national authorities.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on cohesion policy and the review of the europe 2020 strategy, as i believe that the european union's long-term strategy for growth and jobs will bring new jobs, innovation, prevent climate change and ensure energy sustainability and new educational opportunities, and will be even more active in the fight against poverty and social exclusion. it is thus the eu's key instrument for investing in the real economy and is an expression of european solidarity, which increases growth and prosperity and reduces economic, social and territorial disparities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on cohesion policy and the review of the europe 2020 strategy. cohesion policy is the eu’s main investment growth and development policy aligned with the goals of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and aimed at reducing disparities between regions and promoting convergence, with a budget of eur 351.8 billion until the end of 2020. a mid-term review of the europe 2020 strategy affords above all an opportunity to assess (and acknowledge) the contribution of cohesion policy to achieving the strategy’s targets and to improve existing interactions and links between various eu policies and with the eu budget, with a view to them acting as an effective driving force for the implementation of the strategy. i therefore consider this stage essential for shaping future cohesion policy, as an eu-wide investment policy, while prioritising the reduction of development disparities and re-accelerating the convergence process.
in writing. ‒ article 23 of the common provisions regulation (regulation (eu) no 1303/2013) provides that, in order to allow for a performance-oriented approach and to achieve the objectives of the union strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, it would be necessary to establish a performance reserve for each member state of 6% of the total allocation for the investment for growth and jobs goal and for the eafrd and measures financed under the emff regulation. in the current programming period, cohesion policy is closely linked to the strategic objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and to economic governance mechanisms. the measures to link the performance of the esi funds to sound economic management under article 23 of the common provisions regulation are controversial, as the macroeconomic conditionality was not supported by the vast majority of parliamentary groups. i agree that economic governance mechanisms must not impede the achievement of the policy objectives of the esi funds and that article 23 of the regulation should be used only as a measure of last resort to make the esi funds more effective. this should not lead to financial uncertainty and instability that would jeopardise an already precarious situation, in particular in vulnerable regions or those most affected by the crisis. since i believe that efforts are needed to ensure that the provisions of the regulation are implemented as fairly and as balanced as possible, i have supported the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european structural and investment funds and good economic governance. the european structural and investment funds bring together five funds, one of whose aims is to promote the harmonious development of the european union and to reduce regional disparities. i support the simplification of the management of these funds, which is being pursued by the european commission, and which will help to create new jobs and improve socioeconomic conditions.
in writing. ‒ report on the european structural and investment funds and good economic governance: guidelines for the implementation of article 23 of the cpr, i supported this report because i believe that the measures to link the performance of the european structural and investment funds with good economic governance under article 23 of the cpr are perhaps the most controversial aspect of this regulation and i believe that new guidelines are inevitable.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the ‘european structural and investment funds and sound economic governance: guidelines for the implementation of article 23 of the common provisions regulation’ because i am aware of the importance of cohesion policy also as an expression of european solidarity, aimed at strengthening economic, social and territorial cohesion in the eu, and in particular at reducing disparities between regions, promoting a balanced and harmonious socio-economic development. the cohesion policy is also an investment policy contributing to achieving the goals of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. therefore it is essential to address the question of the reprogramming of article 23 cpr that may avoid financial uncertainty and instability and the worsening an already precarious situation particularly in disadvantaged regions or those hit hardest by the crisis. we must ensure a proportionate response in order to avoid further disadvantaging regions already experiencing difficulties.
on behalf of the s&d group. why do we need this discussion today? there are a number of things that have happened in the last few weeks and months that need to be explained. we are talking about the introduction of smart borders at the external borders of the union, a project worth almost eur 800 million, which is supposed to make it easier for travellers from third countries to cross borders, to introduce easier controls on them, to automate border procedures and so on. unfortunately, we are all, including you, mr commissioner, mr schmit, in a difficult position. different proposals are circulating among the member states. for some of my colleagues, we happen to know that some countries want the revised legislative proposal to be published as early as december, because they link the apparent introduction of smart borders to the extreme migratory pressures on europe and to security risks. we cannot allow that to happen, and that was not the intention of the european commission's proposal. yes, we share serious concerns about developments in europe, about the apparently poor or uncontrolled influx of immigrants. my country, slovenia, is under tremendous pressure these days. austria announced this morning that it would build a fence or a barrier on the border with slovenia. schengen will be seriously threatened by such a measure. i'm afraid of how slovenia will react. it will be forced to consider similar measures on the border with croatia. these are all concerns we share on a daily basis, and also the view that fences within schengen countries and building a european fortress with smart borders may not be the best solution. however, linking the current situation to the need to introduce smart borders is really harmful. when we talk about new solutions for managing europe's borders, we need to think deeply. but when it comes to smart borders, we need smart proposals, and i sincerely hope that the european commission will take the concerns of the european parliament into account when presenting the revised proposal. on behalf of the socialists and democrats, i would like to make a specific point: firstly, what is the purpose of the proposal and is it really proportionate to the dizzying costs involved? the analysis showed a reduction in costs. have we used all the possibilities of existing systems such as vis or sis ii? are we against any access by the judiciary to the new system? we are facing major challenges when it comes to the question of borders, and what i do not want is to go into the construction of some complex and expensive system that would become just a kind of police tool, without any added value for those for whom it is intended, for the travellers who therefore come to europe and from whom we have not only economic benefits. the same as you would expect from europeans elsewhere. above all, i want to ensure that the cooperation between the institutions in this complex operation is transparent, because only then will we be able to find the best joint solutions.
from the outset, i supported the idea of the semester because we need european instruments to contribute to the efficiency of the european union and, in particular, its economy. we know that the union as such cannot function sustainably without economic, monetary and fiscal coordination between its members. i am concerned about the lack of implementation of the recommendations. the framework is meaningless if it is not followed by a responsible and consistent implementation of the recommendations. i am pleased that the commission has focused on the economic side and has set economic growth priorities such as increasing investment, implementing structural reforms, fiscal responsibility and improving business policies. in the context of this debate, i would like to reiterate the opportunity offered by the european semester framework for other issues on which economic efficiency also depends. i have long suggested that a health semester be established within the existing semester, creating positive leverage for governments to reform health systems, which is essential for more health in our societies. the sustainability of health systems is in serious question. if we do not tackle this issue urgently, with the added value that the european union can offer, the effects on public finances will be very soon before us.
the global crisis has shown us, among other things, the weakness and vulnerability of our financial systems. in particular, it has revealed loopholes that can lead to large-scale fraud and, consequently, to high costs. we all know that speculating in financial institutions can bring huge profits. this is a field characterized by its ability to make quick money. but just like quick profits, there are quick and painful losses. and we have to stop that. we must avoid taxpayers paying for this speculation. i agree that there needs to be more transparency in the financial system, not just in banks, but in other financial institutions as well. i'd like to point out something else that's been bothering me. in slovenia, we had a big problem with the banking system. it cost the taxpayer a great deal, but to this day we don't know who's responsible. when my client in slovenia repeatedly asked for answers about what was going on in the banking system, we always came up with the same answer: this is banking secrecy. i respect the principle of bank secrecy when it's applied to the right cases. but i cannot allow and accept that this principle is being exploited. apparently, at eu level, it's regulated differently. i wish there was order like that everywhere.
according to commissioner elżbieta bieńkowska, access to finance is not the most pressing problem for smes. at least that's how she answered my congressional question. but slovenian entrepreneurs and data say otherwise. i quote the european commission's report on the performance of smes in 2013 and 2014: 'access to finance remains the main obstacle for smes, despite a number of activities and initiatives to improve. " bank loans, for example, are not relevant for many entrepreneurs because of their high interest rates, according to the european commission's access to finance survey. this is the opinion of 22% of slovenian entrepreneurs, compared with the eu average of 11%, and only 1% of entrepreneurs in finland and sweden. this shows that we have large differences between member states and insufficient effective programmes. to change this, better account should be taken of the financial and institutional characteristics in the member states. instead of standardized solutions, we need customized solutions, or, in fashion parlance, we need sur-mesure measures instead of pret-à-porter.
in the hands of responsible people, drones are excellent tools, for example, to replace humans in dangerous tasks. but in the hands of the irresponsible or the unskilled, there are threats to property, animals, safety and privacy of people, and this area needs to be regulated well and quickly, including the adoption of the highest standards in production. security and privacy are of paramount importance, as the report points out. the recent volkswagen car scandal has shown the importance of enforcement. the commission and the member states are therefore called upon to provide sufficient resources for enforcement. the market for drones is already very large, and the field of their use, as we all know, is still very unregulated. we therefore need a common european strategy, particularly in the areas of security, privacy, accountability, qualifications and environmental protection.
i am glad that the report includes things that i have pointed out myself many times in the work so far. first, tourism must not have a negative impact on the daily lives of the inhabitants. there is also no place in tourism for the tourism industry's arrogance towards the local population in the sense of 'be glad we are here and give you a job'. there is also no room for the arrogance and irresponsibility of tourists in the sense of 'be glad we are coming to you'. secondly, social tourism is a great opportunity to combine the pleasant with the useful and to reduce the seasonal nature of tourism. that is why it is important to continue with projects like calypso, because they give the opportunity to the socially vulnerable to take a holiday. thirdly, the action plan and the tourism strategy must have objectives and a timetable, especially when financed from public funds. without targets and a timetable, however, it is very difficult to assess the effectiveness and efficiency of programmes and the use of public funds.
in writing. ‒ the european police college (cepol) is the eu agency responsible for training and educating law enforcement officials and for issues of fundamental importance to the security of the eu and its citizens. the training itself covers a range of topics, from leadership to law enforcement techniques, eu cooperation and economic crime. the aim of the activity is to facilitate the exchange of knowledge and good practice and to contribute to the creation of a common european culture of law enforcement. the proposal for a regulation updates cepol's legal basis and aligns it with the changes introduced by the lisbon treaty, and also gives the agency the task of implementing the principles of the new law enforcement training programme. the renewed legal framework would enable cepol to effectively implement its law enforcement training programme and thus benefit other european law enforcement authorities. in view of the increasing threat of transnational and organised crime, effective and smooth cross-border cooperation between all relevant national detection and investigation authorities is therefore of vital importance. i agree that cepol needs to be maintained as an eu agency that not only serves as a support platform for cooperation between national authorities, but also needs to be firmly rooted in implementation and enforcement at european level, which is why i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu training agency for detection and investigation of crime (cepol). the european union is facing major challenges that we must tackle unitedly and with determination. and we can expect that in the future. the cepol can be a tool to improve the culture of detection and investigation of crime, a tool to improve trust between member states and to improve cross-border cooperation. the key is that cepol is given the appropriate powers as soon as possible to carry out its mission effectively. the agency will have a clear mandate with clear objectives and tasks.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a european union agency for crime prevention and investigation (cepol) and repealing and replacing council decision 2005/681/jha, as i believe that effective and smooth cross-border cooperation between relevant detection and investigation bodies is essential in response to the growing threat of transnational and organised crime, and that adequate training of staff is essential to promote and build mutual trust.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution addressing the european police college (cepol) because the eu’s internal security needs are constantly evolving, resulting in increasing demands on police forces and law enforcement officers. the right skills will be critical to meet future challenges and safeguard the security of our citizens. in order to counter the growing threat of transnational and organised crime, effective and smooth cross-border cooperation among all relevant national law enforcement authorities is key. to foster and sustain this kind of cross-border cooperation and to enhance mutual trust, proper training of law enforcement officers is paramount. i believe it is important to acknowledge the importance of the role cepol has in its training activities, promoting common respect for, and understanding of, fundamental rights in law enforcement, such as privacy, data protection and the rights, support and protection of victims, witnesses and suspects of crime, including safeguarding the rights of victims of gender-based violence.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the reporting and transparency of securities financing transactions. we all remember very well one of the main causes of the economic and financial crisis, the effects of which are still being felt today. no one supports speculative activities, legislative loopholes and ineffective supervision. the adoption of this report will, inter alia, improve communication between competent authorities and mutual assistance and cooperation, which will also contribute to greater transparency of securities financing transactions.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the reporting and transparency of securities financing transactions, as i believe that this regulation will bring about a strengthening of the transparency of securities financial markets and consequently of the financial system as a whole, and it establishes a union framework allowing for the effective reporting of information on securities financing transactions, transactions concluded and investors.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on reporting and transparency of securities financing transactions. the financial crisis that emerged in 2007-2008 has revealed excessive speculative activities, important regulatory gaps, ineffective supervision, opaque markets and overly complex products in the financial system. i agree that the crisis has also highlighted the need to improve transparency and monitoring not only in the traditional banking sector but also in areas where non-bank credit activities take place, called ‘shadow banking’. in order to ensure the effective implementation of the reporting of securities financing transactions, a phased implementation of the requirements by counterparties is necessary. this should consider the effective ability of the counterparties to comply with the reporting obligations.
in writing. ‒ motions for resolutions - follow-up to the european parliament resolution of 12 march 2014 on electronic mass surveillance of eu citizens i have rejected as i consider that this is a violation of the fundamental right to privacy and the protection of personal data of eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour on this resolution because i agree that eu citizens’ fundamental rights remain in danger and that too little has been done to ensure their full protection in case of electronic mass surveillance. i also supported this because i want to express my disappointment about the limited progress in ensuring the protection of whistle-blowers and journalists. it is important to address the question of other personal data exchange with third countries, of the protection of the rule of law and of the fundamental rights of eu citizens, and of an european strategy for greater it independence and democratic and neutral internet governance. this is why i believe that more needs to be done and further recommendations should be sent on this matter.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european semester for economic policy coordination: implementing the priorities for 2015. as vice-chair of the committee on budgets, i supported the committee's opinion that a new system of own resources was needed to help bring about a real overhaul of the eu's financing arrangements without eu citizens having to pay higher taxes. in the opinion of the committee on budgets, we also point out that the payment deficits, which are mainly due to inadequate payment ceilings and insufficient budgetary resources, are still running in 2015.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the report on the european semester for economic policy coordination: implementing the priorities for 2015 because the content of the report is generally satisfactory, but i do not support certain parts of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution aiming to ensure integrated economic policy coordination at eu level through a combination of macro-economic and fiscal surveillance tools, which are necessary for steering convergence and managing the interdependence of member states. the text addresses the most important challenges european citizens are facing, such as economic prospects and challenges for the eu, csrs – priorities and objectives, setting up recommendations for improving social and economic conditions, addressing budgetary policies, employment and social policy, the internal market, etc. i also agree that much more must be done in terms of prevention, and i agree with the need to support investment in early intervention and in high-quality, accessible and inclusive services, including in education from an early age, family and community support, social services and sustainable healthcare systems. an increased demand for services could also lead to important job creation in the social sector, if addressed effectively. furthermore, the health and social care sectors represent crucial areas for investment in pursuit of sustainable economies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the council recommendation on the integration of the long-term unemployed into the labour market. the global economic and financial crisis that has hit us is still present with frightening consequences. in addition to the huge number of young unemployed in the european union - around 5 million young people under 25 were unemployed in the european union last year - we are also facing a growing permanent unemployment, which has doubled since 2007. we need rapid and effective measures to boost employment, especially in regions with high levels of structural unemployment.
in writing. ‒ motions for resolutions - i supported the council recommendation on the integration of the long-term unemployed into the labour market, as i believe that long-term unemployment has a negative impact on people, they gradually lose their skills and knowledge, which can lead to personal deprivation, a lower exploitation of human capital, a loss of economic potential and an increase in social expenditure. increased employment rates for the long-term unemployed would contribute to sustainable growth, while also potentially relieving the burden on public finances.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it is crucial that we address the topic of long-term unemployment. as a result of the economic crisis, long-term unemployment has doubled since 2007 and accounts for half of total unemployment, or more than 12 million people, representing 5% of the eu’s active population; over 60% of the long-term unemployed were out of work for at least two consecutive years in 2014. long-term unemployment often leads to poverty, inequalities and social exclusion, and disproportionately affects vulnerable people who are in a disadvantaged position on the labour market. i agree with the proposed actions¸ addressing this issue: (i) ambitiously stepping up the registration of the long-term unemployed through an employment service aiming at full coverage; (ii) assessing the individual potential, needs and job preferences of the long-term unemployed before they reach 18 months of unemployment; and (iii) offering a tailor-made, balanced and comprehensible ‘job integration agreement’ between the long-term unemployed and the services involved, at the latest by the time the person concerned reaches 18 months of unemployment.
in writing. ‒ drones are a great tool in the hands of those responsible, for example to replace people in dangerous tasks. i was recently told that they were used to repair the roof of a church bell tower in styria. but in the hands of the irresponsible or the incompetent, they threaten things, animals, people's safety, and our privacy. this area therefore needs to be regulated well and quickly. security and privacy are of the utmost importance. the recent vw car scandal has shown the importance of enforcement. the commission and the member states are therefore called upon to provide sufficient resources for enforcement. at the same time, we all know how limited budgetary resources are and how heavily taxed people and businesses are in the eu. this requires a well-designed monitoring system that is effective but not too expensive.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the safe use of remotely piloted aircraft systems (rpas), commonly known as unmanned aerial vehicles, in civil aviation, as i believe it is a political issue that will allow the european industry to grow to compete on a global level, while at the same time this emerging market is a great opportunity for investment, innovation and job creation in the supply chain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on safe use of remotely piloted aircraft systems (rpas), commonly known as unmanned aerial vehicles (uavs). these systems are used primarily for military purposes but are now being applied commercially, pushing legislative boundaries, whereas today rpas used in a professional context also provide significant benefits for different civil uses, the added value of which increases with the distance between the aircraft and the remote pilot (bvlos (beyond-visual-line-of-sight) operations. it is necessary to address the topics at international level because there are no harmonised rules at eu level. the development of a european drone market might be impeded, given that national authorisations are generally not mutually recognised among the member states, and therefore the resolution puts forward suggestions for the future, such as the encouragement of innovative technologies in the area of rpas that have an enormous potential for job creation, in particular green jobs, and the encouragement of the development and exploration of the great potential of involving smes in the field of services concerned with the production of specialised parts and materials.
in writing. ‒ tourism is a very important industry in europe, providing a huge number of jobs and potentially having a positive impact on economic growth. tourism in europe has a lot of potential, because we can offer spa tourism, eco tourism, green tourism and so on. i believe that tourism needs to be developed and invested in its further development and improvement. however, i would also like to emphasise that consumers and their rights must not be forgotten, since these rights must not be infringed and tourist services must provide the level expected or promised. although tourism development is very important, there is a need to stimulate the economy in this area. as a member of the green group, i would like to highlight another important aspect of promoting tourism in europe. this is the appropriate protection of natural and cultural sites and awareness of the potential negative impacts that tourism can have on the environment. i am thinking in particular of national parks, mountains and other protected areas, which should not be over-exploited by mass tourism but should be managed with caution and common sense. i think it is a good report, covering all the important aspects, and i have therefore voted in favour of adopting it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on new challenges and strategies for promoting tourism in europe. as regards the new challenges and strategies for promoting tourism in europe, i would like to highlight three points. first, tourism must not have a negative impact on the daily lives of the inhabitants. there is no room in tourism for the arrogance of the tourism industry towards the residents in the sense of, be glad we're here and giving you a job. nor for the arrogance and irresponsibility of tourists in the sense of being glad we're coming to you at all. second, action plans and tourism strategies must have objectives and a timetable, especially when they are financed from public funds. for example, this is not included in the commission's action plan for the development of coastal and maritime tourism. without targets and a timetable, however, it is very difficult to assess the success and effectiveness of programmes and the use of public funds.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the new challenges and strategies for promoting tourism in europe, as i believe that the tourism industry is facing increasing global competition as foreign tourists are attracted by cheaper countries. with new strategies and challenges, europe will remain competitive, it must exploit its comparative advantages, in particular the diversity of its rural areas and its extraordinary cultural wealth, and businesses will have to adapt to the age of digitalisation. promoting tourism will also create new jobs, especially for young people.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on new challenges and concepts for the promotion of tourism in europe. the tourism industry is facing increasing global competition, with emerging, less expensive countries attracting international tourists. faced with this competition, europe must play on its comparative advantages, in particular the diversity of its countryside and extraordinary cultural wealth. there are plans to create a genuine common communication strategy to identify europe as a unique destination and to create a unique european portal introducing individual national websites, and i agree that an important step has been taken in this field. the resolution addresses several topics such as the branding/joint promotion of europe as a quality tourist destination, pan-european and transnational tourism products, unlocking the potential of coastal and marine tourism, sustainable, responsible and social tourism, accessibility, sharing economy and the power of digitalisation, etc.
in writing. ‒ motions for resolutions - i supported the development of satellite technology to enable global aircraft tracking systems to operate, as i believe that new systems for determining the position of public transport aircraft at any given moment are needed to avoid aircraft disappearing.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the allocation, by the world radiocommunication conference, to be held in geneva from 2 to 27 november 2015 (wrc-15), of the necessary radio spectrum band to support the future development of a satellite-based technology to enable global flight tracking systems, in order to ensure greater safety in flight transportation. i believe the improved system should be ensured and that the development of such a system should be achieved through strong cooperation between all interested stakeholders (e.g. industry, airlines, air navigation service providers, safety and rescue services, safety investigation authorities and international organisations) and such a system should remain effective even in the event of loss of normal electrical power on board, and should not offer any possibility of being disabled during the flight.
in writing. the recent economic crisis has shown the need to ensure better economic governance and more effective policy coordination between eu member states. that is why we are discussing the european semester today. but i fear that despite this, certain political decisions have been slowed down. it is important that we start implementing the objectives of the european semester. the economy has been growing weakly since mid-2013, but the eu recovery has been below expectations. the solution lies in boosting the economy, creating jobs, increasing investment and in a well-educated and skilled workforce. if we are to achieve all the main objectives of the european semester, we must address the challenges we face in an integrated way. that is why i also call on my country to actively address the brain drain, because the outflow of the young population will have many consequences, namely consequences for social systems, social security, pensions and health care.
in writing. the aviation economy is vital to europe, directly supporting 2.6 million jobs and contributing more than 2.4% of eu gdp. a variety of factors require radical changes in the regulatory framework in this area. these factors are mainly the closure of a large number of jobs. it should be noted that european airlines have closed or are planning to close more than 20,000 jobs since 2012. the impact of air transport on climate change is also significant. it contributes to about 13% of the carbon dioxide emissions in eu transport. the commission notes that the airport services agreement with ryanair was signed on 28 june 2014 and that the agreement was signed on 27 june 2014. the international civil aviation organisation (icao), the eu and the member states need to improve various legal and financial regulations, such as the intra-eu emissions trading system, increased passenger rights, duties and national taxes, noise reduction at airports and operating time limits. the new commission package, which will take account of all the changes and factors, seems to me to be both necessary and important. this is mainly due to the need to improve the competitiveness of the aviation industry, to increase its international dimension, to the lack of integration of the social agenda in the aviation sector and to the need to ensure a high level of safety in eu airspace.
as my predecessors have said, the daphne programme aims to contribute to the protection of children, young people and women and to combat all forms of violence. it aims to achieve a high level of health protection, well-being and social cohesion for these groups. in the past, this programme has played a very important role in the implementation of the objectives of protecting women against violence and it would be right that this programme be maintained. however, as the other speakers have said, we must ensure that the funds from this programme are spent in a transparent way. we cannot allow this good program to be cast into doubt by its lack of transparency. so, commissioner, please ensure that this programme is implemented in a way that achieves its objectives. good luck with your execution.
in writing. ‒ the report is a continuation of the isa programme, which provides interoperability solutions for european public administrations. this programme is still in use, but it is also opening a new cycle that cannot ignore technical developments, new needs of administrations and civil society, and new opportunities in the field of cloud computing. interoperability increasingly promotes the potential quality of public services and creates an environment that allows businesses to be more competitive and citizens to be more satisfied. the new programme thus brings a greater focus on businesses and citizens, makes a significant contribution to the digital market strategy, captures the results of increased cooperation and synergies with important initiatives of the european commission, etc. the isa2 programme contributes to the modernisation of public administrations in europe and enhances their potential for positive differentiation, both in terms of the global competitiveness of the economy and the quality of life of the population. it also contributes to the creation of the digital single market and to the implementation of the ambitious european digital agenda, which is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council establishing a programme for interoperability solutions for european public administrations, businesses and citizens. i support the establishment of an interoperable e-society in the european union and the cooperation of public administrations in promoting the use of online procedures. by making online public services more efficient, we will strengthen the trust of businesses and citizens in digital services. interoperability solutions will modernise public administration in the eu, improve the quality of public services and improve the competitive environment for businesses.
in writing. ‒ report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council establishing a programme for interoperability solutions for european public administrations, businesses and citizens (isa2) interoperability as a means of modernising the public sector i supported this document as i believe it is a continuation of the isa programme which brings modernisation to public administrations in europe. this will increase their potential in terms of global competitiveness, the economy and also the quality of life of the population.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council establishing a programme on interoperability solutions for european public administrations, businesses and citizens as a means of modernising the public sector. i believe it is important to promote solutions enabling data to be exchanged in administration contexts and between administrations and eu institutions. the aim of the isa2 programme is to make sure that the commission, when determining the implementation and assessment criteria to be applied, does not confine itself to an exclusively supply-side perspective, but, on the contrary, will have to emphasise the demand-side perspective – that is to say, the ability to modernise the public sector to make it respond more effectively and efficiently to civil society’s needs. i also believe that interoperability within local, national and european public administrations facilitates the achievement of the goals set out by the european parliament in its resolution of 29 march 2012 on the ‘eu citizenship report 2010: dismantling the obstacles to eu citizens’ rights’.
in writing. ‒ the reform of the electoral procedure aims to increase the democratic and transnational dimension of european elections and the democratic legitimacy of the decision-making process in the union, to strengthen the concept of citizenship of the union, to improve the functioning of the ep and the governance of the union, to strengthen the legitimacy of the work of the ep, to strengthen the principles of equal suffrage and equal opportunities, to improve the efficiency of the system for conducting european elections and to bring the ep closer to its voters, especially the youngest. the report makes proposals to improve the visibility of european political groups, to harmonise certain deadlines, to introduce a mandatory 3% and 5% threshold in the european electoral system, to introduce the process of the main candidates for president of the commission, to add the possibility of voting by post, to change the procedure for implementing the electoral act, to establish the rule of gender equality and minority representation. however, i do not think that all these proposals represent adequate solutions for a unified electoral system. examples include the introduction of a mandatory 3% and 5% threshold, which would be very harmful to smaller clients, and the gender equality provision, which is inappropriately regulated by the non-application of the list system. i also consider that the provision governing the subject-matter of transnational certificates is too weakly worded. for the reasons described, i voted in plenary against the adoption of the report on the reform of the electoral legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the reform of the electoral law of the european union. the aim of the report is to strengthen the democratic dimension of european elections, to improve the visibility of the work and the efficiency of the organisation of elections to the european parliament. in recent years, we have seen a decline in citizens' support for and trust in the institutions of the european union, and i therefore support any activity that goes in the direction of building trust. it has been a long time since the last amendment to the electoral law, and in that time a lot has changed in the european union as a whole and in the european parliament. the european parliament elections must be european in character and not appear to be a confrontation over national issues.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the motion for a resolution on the reform of the electoral legislation of the european union, as the electoral procedure will be reformed before the next elections in 2019. this will increase the democratic and transnational dimension of european elections, as well as reinforcing the concept of union citizenship and the concept of equal voting rights. the visibility of european political parties will certainly be improved. the resolution also introduces the novelty of electoral integrity by reasonably limiting campaign costs and encouraging member states to use electronic, online and postal voting. this will improve voter turnout and enable people with reduced mobility and others living or working in another eu member state to participate in elections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the reform of the electoral law of the european union. voting in democratic elections is one of the most important rights in a democracy. currently, the rules governing european elections are set out by national legislations, meaning that there are major differences among members states. i hope that the provisions outlined in this resolution will increase citizens’ interest in participating in this important element of european decision-making. the resolution seeks to make voting more accessible for eu citizens living abroad through online voting systems. online and postal-voting systems too should therefore be made available in all eu member states. i also acknowledge that the minimum age for eligibility to stand as a candidate across the 28 member states varies between 18 and 25, and the minimum age for eligibility to vote ranges from 16 to 18, due to the divergent constitutional and electoral traditions in member states. i believe that harmonisation of the voting age and of the minimum age for candidates at eu level would be highly desirable as a means of providing union citizens with real voting equality, and would ensure that any type of discrimination is avoided.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint resolution of the three political groups epp, s&d and alde on aviation. the aviation legislative package will provide the much-needed impetus for the recovery of the european aviation sector. with this report, we call on the european commission to take account of some of the difficulties in the overall approach to safety, environment and performance regulation. the competitiveness of air carriers and airports in the european union needs to be strengthened. the report also calls for enhanced aviation safety through the use of satellite-based air traffic control.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motions for resolutions on the future aviation package, as i believe it has many positive effects, especially for the european aviation industry. the proposals adopted will help to improve the competitiveness of this sector. innovation is certainly a prerequisite for a competitive european aviation industry and it is right to support it, particularly in the areas of air traffic management, the use of alternative fuels, remotely piloted aircraft systems, airport security, etc.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on aviation because it is in line with the regulations on the implementation of the single european sky, aiming at improving the competitiveness of the aviation industry. the aviation package should provide a much-needed boost for a more sustainable and competitive european aviation industry, strengthen european airlines, airports and the aeronautic industry, ensure a level playing field in the global market and set out a long-term strategy for europe’s aviation sector. i also agree that the negotiation of comprehensive aviation agreements with the eu’s major trading partners should be a strategic goal and that such negotiations should be launched or accelerated. the resolution also addresses the social agenda in the aviation sector, where it is important to underline the fact that certain working conditions in the aviation sector may impact flight safety and that the aviation package must include social provisions and provide the necessary safeguards. the main goal is to ensure a high level of safety in the eu airspace, which i think it is the most important aspect.
human rights are the process and the basis for people to live human rights, to not be hungry in the first place, to have a job, to be educated and to be the ones who ultimately demand human rights. such a trade agreement will give and give dignity to the people of vietnam to work and i am sure that in the process we will also come up with greater demands for human rights. those who are too quick to expect that in a backward system of government where there are hungry and poor people, human rights will be implemented at a high level, let them remember how we from this city and from many other places have asked and demanded for human rights for the people of iraq, libya and syria, and today let us ask ourselves how these people have their human rights fulfilled. they don't even have the right to live. human rights is a process, and i support this process because it will lead to greater human rights in vietnam.
european farmers, and european agricultural policy, can be proud of what has been achieved in the field of animal welfare over the last 10 to 15 years. i myself have followed this development in detail in my country, the republic of slovenia, as a farmer or - if you like - as minister of agriculture. and i know the efforts of farmers, how they have changed the herds, both in cattle, pigs and poultry, and i think that really a lot of progress has been made and significant funds have been contributed from european agricultural money. the next steps will certainly be to see what has already been done, what has not been done, and to discuss the steps that need to be taken to ensure that agriculture in europe is unified and that we have the assurance that there is a unified animal welfare policy behind european agriculture. the next steps certainly need to be discussed with farmers as well as consumers, and to be taken step by step, soberly and deliberately, not too hastily. on the other hand, i think it is absolutely necessary to be very critical and to take a close look at the countries from which we import meat products, because it may happen that, if we import such products without compromise and without criticism, we will also put european agriculture, european livestock farming, at great risk, and as has already been said today, small farms in areas with difficult farming conditions will be the first to fail. but it is also clear that these animal welfare standards will have to be taken into account in all trade agreements, as they constitute a new trap in which the european farmer can again be caught short because of inconsistent rules.
thank you, mr. chairman, for your time. i support the report because i believe that all children should have the right to education, health care, housing and to grow up in a caring family environment. unfortunately, the reality is different, with more than one in four children in the european union at risk of poverty and social exclusion. the report states that child poverty is increasing at the expense of austerity measures. of course, austerity measures are necessary, but they must not come at the expense of the children. it is therefore the responsibility of each member state to ensure at least the basic needs of a normal childhood. the consequences of excessive saving at the expense of children can, of course, also affect public health and, in turn, the public purse. but i would also like to highlight the example of slovenia, which i think is still a country that provides access to public health for all children.
thank you for your words, chairman. as a society, we have a responsibility for the well-being of children and it is up to all of us to fully implement the convention on the rights of the child, which puts the interests, protection and rights of children at the centre. states parties have an obligation to ensure that every child is protected from all forms of violence, abuse, neglect, cruelty and exploitation. it is also very important that we actively engage and raise awareness in the fight against child trafficking, for any kind of exploitation, which often includes forced labour, forced marriages, illegal adoptions and sexual abuse. the most effective solution to reduce the growing child poverty is to develop the economy, boost economic growth and eliminate unemployment. the economic crisis is affecting the growth of child poverty and the exercise of the rights of children under the united nations convention on the rights of the child.
a wave of migrants is flooding europe. in a good month, according to our police, more than 250,000 people have already traveled through slovenia, that's more than 10% of the population of slovenia. of these, only four asylum applications were granted, so we can assume that the majority of them are economic migrants. most of the people coming through our territory are undocumented. we are in schengen and we have a duty to protect the external borders of the european union, but our police have in several cases detected persons who have taken advantage of the flow of migrants to return from the war zones in syria. especially in light of the recent attacks in paris, i naturally ask the european institutions what we are going to do. can we trust our intelligence and security measures? are the staffing capacities sufficient and are the security measures effective? i'm also curious, of course, to know, after the recent events, what stage is the project of the european union's joint intelligence service at?
in writing. the european union has some shortcomings, energy malnutrition being one of the most fatal. in fact, one could say that energy is more dividing the european political scene than it is uniting it. it is in this area that the national egoisms that have led to the demise of the energy union in the last year are most pronounced. we certainly need to continue to develop the concept of an energy community and to involve other neighbouring countries, in particular norway. today, we often hear the false dilemma of whether we are building a low-carbon society or a competitive european industry (which still relies too much on carbon energy). for europe's future, a low-carbon economy is a necessity (not an alternative), because only so-called clean energy will free us from dependence on russian gas and arab oil. during the transition period, we should focus more on diversification, renewable and alternative energy sources. but this is a joint project with no internal boundaries. when the eu 'speaks with one voice' in this area too, and breaks free from this energy dependence, we will also be a more important player on the global political stage.
first of all, of course, i would like to congratulate my colleague, mr langen, on his legislative report. we've all had bad experiences with insurance companies. when we looked for comparable offers, they were as different as those offered by different car brands. for example, one offer contains something that the other excludes. it is right that the european directive will affect all those involved in the insurance business, from insurance companies with direct sales to intermediaries, banks and mediators. i am particularly pleased that mr langen has also paid particular attention to small and medium-sized enterprises. the new directive, among other things, provides for the end of cross-selling; i certainly support this and i think it is right that a loan taken out for personal insurance should not be linked to any other insurance policy. the standard form, which will be in force from the end of 2017, will provide the main characteristics and prices of the insurance product and will provide a proper comparison. insurance products are a matter of concern for every individual and it is important that we have a competitive and transparent market for these services.
in writing. ‒ on 14 june this year, we marked the 30th anniversary of the schengen agreement on the free movement of persons between the member states of the schengen area, which we undoubtedly consider to be one of the greatest achievements of european integration. but the migrant crisis we've seen over the last year has put the so-called schengen on its biggest test yet. it also shows that many provisions of the agreement work perfectly under ideal conditions, with a manageable number of border crossings, while not being adapted in any way to the current crisis situation. each country has its own way of doing this, and it is also the agreement that requires it to do so. but these situations lead to mutual blame between the schengen member states and expose the countries on the schengen or external border of the eu. these countries, either because of lack of resources or for other reasons, are not able to adequately protect their borders on their own, and therefore the upgrading of schengen is necessary. if the eu wants to preserve the schengen area, the eu as a whole must take care of the protection of the external borders, or schengen, and not leave it to a handful of the most exposed countries. the proposed decision to repeal certain acts governing the schengen area is purely conciliatory in nature and i naturally supported it. but it is also an opportunity to review the rules that are so badly needed. otherwise, schengen will become a thing of the past.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the european parliament's proposal for amendments to the commission proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council repealing certain acts of the schengen acquis, as i believe that it is necessary to repeal certain obsolete acts of the schengen acquis and replace them with new, more effective acts. today, we are faced with, among other things, mass migration, which is a major challenge for europe as a whole, especially in the implementation of the schengen agreement. given the current situation of concern and the questionable security of people, a good, modernised information system for external border control and a more efficient exchange of data between member states are urgently needed to allow better monitoring of migration at the external borders and to prevent irregular migration.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on a proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council repealing certain acts in the area of freedom security and justice because i believe improving the transparency of union law is an essential element of the better law- making strategy that the institutions of the union are implementing. in this context, it is appropriate to repeal those acts which no longer serve any purpose. a number of acts belonging to the schengen acquis are no longer relevant due to their temporary nature or because their content has been taken up by subsequent acts. since the objective of this regulation, namely the repeal of a number of obsolete union acts belonging to the schengen acquis, cannot be sufficiently achieved by the member states, but rather can be better achieved at union level, the union may adopt measures, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity as set out in article 5 of the treaty on european union (teu). in accordance with the principle of proportionality, as set out in that article, this regulation does not go beyond what is necessary in order to achieve that objective.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the legislative resolution of the european parliament and of the council on the repeal of certain acts of the schengen acquis in the area of freedom, security and justice (com ((2014) 0713 c8-0277/2014 2014/0337 ((cod)) because it is in line with the principle of legal certainty and contributes to improving the transparency of union law to repeal acts which have ceased to have legal effect or whose content has been taken up by subsequent acts. i also voted in favour of changing the legal act from 'decision of the european parliament and of the council' to 'regulation of the european parliament and of the council' to allow it to become directly applicable in all member states in accordance with article 288 tfeu.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, as i did the previous report on the proposal for a decision repealing certain acts deriving from the schengen agreement. it aims to repeal obsolete acts in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, which the commission has identified as obsolete in these two areas in its assessment of the schengen acquis. their content was summarised in later acts or the acts cited were only of a temporary nature. with a view to the immediate entry into force of the amendments, i also welcome the intention of the rapporteur to give effect to the repeal decision as a regulation, since it is directly applicable in all eu member states. the schengen agreement is one of the eu's greatest achievements and i agree that the rules that result from it must be in line with the eu legal order, but their direct implementation is also of the utmost importance. unfortunately, this area has been neglected recently, and this can have a profound impact on the security of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council repealing certain acts in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. i support the repeal of obsolete acts either because they were only of a temporary nature or because they are no longer relevant. since the member states cannot adopt acts on their own to repeal acts in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, a regulation must be adopted at european union level to repeal all the acts mentioned.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council repealing certain acts in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, as past events have reminded us once again of the need to strengthen controls in the field of combating terrorism. it is also necessary to encourage the development of competent authorities in investigative procedures and investigations, in order to ensure the highest possible level of security for all citizens. i believe that this report promotes good and effective cooperation between law enforcement authorities of the member states and cross-border cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council repealing certain acts in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters because i believe that improving the transparency of union law is an essential element of the better law-making strategy that the institutions of the union are implementing. in that context, it is appropriate to repeal those acts which no longer serve any purpose. a number of acts adopted in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, and belonging to the schengen acquis, are no longer relevant due to their temporary nature or because their content has been taken up by subsequent acts. the resolution also addresses the decision of the executive committee about the schengen handbook on cross-border police cooperation, assisting member states in carrying out cross-border operations. this decision became obsolete after the handbook’s content was included in the updated ‘catalogue of recommendations for the correct application of the schengen acquis and best practices in police cooperation, handbook on cross-border operations and compendium on law enforcement liaison officers’.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council repealing certain legal acts in the field of judicial cooperation in criminal matters and police cooperation (com (((2014) 0714 c8-0279/2014 2014/0338 ((cod))), as i believe that it contributes to improving the transparency of union law and enables better preparation of legislation. many acts in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters which fall within the schengen acquis, namely because of their temporary nature or because their content has been taken over by later acts, are no longer relevant, even though they have not been repealed. i also voted in favour of changing the legal act from 'decision of the european parliament and of the council' to 'regulation of the european parliament and of the council' to allow it to become directly applicable in all member states in accordance with article 288 tfeu.
in writing. ‒ i also supported the proposed report because, like the previous two, it repeals acts which have become irrelevant for various reasons. the report repeals various acts and measures on intergovernmental cooperation in areas such as the fight against terrorism, chemical drug profiling, the fight against organised crime, the fight against drug dependence and trafficking, cooperation in the field of public order and peace and security, cooperation between customs authorities and the fight against organised crime. as in the case of the two previous reports, this one concerns the repeal of acts in the field of the schengen acquis which were either of a temporary nature or have been replaced by new acts.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council repealing acts in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, as i believe that action is urgently needed to ensure security and control of the external borders and to strengthen police and judicial cooperation between member states through amended legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council repealing certain acts in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. the resolution addresses the topics of combating illegal drug trafficking in the union, the role of europol in supporting and strengthening mutual cooperation between the law enforcement authorities of the member states in preventing and combating terrorism and other forms of serious crime, and cooperation and mandated information sharing between member states regarding large-scale events which are attended by large numbers of people from more than one member state, in order to maintain law and order, protect people and their property, and prevent criminal offences. i believe that cooperation among member states on these issues is highly important: therefore i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's legislative resolution on the repeal of certain acts in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, because it is in line with legal certainty and clarity and contributes to the transparency of union legislation to repeal acts which no longer serve any purpose.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this recommendation is to approve the exchange of letters between the european union and the enlarged commission of the convention for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna on behalf of the european union (ccsbt), which effectively means that the eu becomes a full member of the said commission of the ccsbt. the eu has been a non-participating member of the commission since 2006. in practice, this means that the eu gains voting rights in the management of the ccstb and thus a direct influence on the management of the southern bluefin tuna, wherever it is located. until recently, only individual countries could be included in the ccsbt, which did not give the eu the possibility of acquiring full membership. but since 2013, regional integration organisations such as the eu have been given membership of the enlarged commission, giving them greater direct influence on all activities related to bluefin tuna, sustainable management of marine resources and the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. i supported the recommendation as proposed.
in writing. ‒ the recommendation states that the purpose of the proposal for a council decision is to approve the exchange of letters between the european union and the enlarged commission of the convention for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna (ccsbt) on behalf of the european union. the signing of this instrument of international law would make the european union a full member of the enlarged ccsbt commission. it is a regional fisheries management organisation responsible for the management of southern bluefin tuna wherever it is located. the european union has been a participating non-member of the commission since 2006 and full membership would also give it voting rights. the catch of southern bluefin tuna in eu fleets is due to limited by-catches in tuna and tuna-like species caught with longlines. since 2006, the eu has been allocated a quota of 10 tonnes of southern bluefin tuna per year for by-catches in the ccsbt area. i believe it is important for the eu to participate in regional fisheries organisations, which enable it to contribute to the rational and sustainable management of marine resources and to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. for all the reasons stated above, i voted in favour of the european parliament's recommendation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the commission for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna (ccsbt) concerning the union's membership of the extended commission of the southern bluefin tuna convention. the european union will thus become a full member of the enlarged commission, of which it is now a non-participating member. i support the european union's involvement in all those organisations where it can contribute to the sustainable management of marine resources and to combating illegal fishing.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the commission for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna (ccsbt) concerning the union's membership of the enlarged commission of the convention for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna, as the signing of this instrument will give the european union full membership status of the enlarged commission of the ccsbt. this will also give eu member states important voting rights that they have not had before.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the commission for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna (ccsbt) concerning the membership of the union in the extended commission. it concerns the authorisation of the exchange of letters between the eu and the ccsbt extended commission. the signing of this instrument of international law will allow the eu to become a full member of the extended commission, having enjoyed cooperating non-member status since 2006, and i agree that the eu, represented by the commission, should play an active role in the six regional tuna fisheries management organisations.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the commission for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna (ccsbt) concerning the union's membership of the enlarged commission of the southern bluefin tuna convention (07134/2015 c8-0323/2015 2015/0036(nle)) as the signing of this instrument of international law would make the european union a full member of the enlarged commission of the ccsbt. i support the union's very active participation in all regional fisheries organisations and its contribution to the rational and sustainable management of marine resources and the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
in writing. ‒ directive 2002/92/ec of the european parliament and of the council on insurance mediation regulates the activities of introducing, proposing or performing other preparatory tasks prior to the conclusion of insurance contracts or the activities of concluding such contracts. the application of this directive has shown that a number of provisions need to be further defined in order to facilitate the marketing of insurance and reinsurance products and that consumer protection requires that the scope be extended to all sales of insurance products and services. i agree that despite the differences between sales channels, the level of consumer protection must be the same. in order to ensure this and to ensure that consumers benefit from comparable standards, in particular in the area of disclosure, it is essential that the competitive conditions are the same for all sellers. the directive should promote a level playing field and also take into account the differences between the different types of sales channels. the inability of insurance intermediaries to operate freely throughout the eu hampers the proper functioning of the internal insurance market. the new directive would therefore represent a step forward in the field of better consumer protection and market integration. for the reasons stated above, i supported the report and voted in favour of its adoption.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the additional report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on insurance mediation. as in other areas, we need a single market in insurance. this directive brings greater uniformity, transparency and consumer protection. i welcome the fact that the directive has been drawn up in close cooperation both between the member states and with consumer organisations. the provision of information by providers will be much more transparent, so that the consumer can make the right choice. it will also create greater trust between the consumer and the supplier.
in writing. ‒ i supported the additional report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on insurance mediation, as i believe that the new directive sets clearer standards and allows for greater transparency in the field of insurance. in addition, from the end of 2017, a comparison will be possible using a standardised form, which will provide the main characteristics and prices of the insurance product.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on insurance mediation because i fully support the main objective and subject-matter of this recast, which is to harmonise national provisions concerning insurance and reinsurance distribution. the form of a directive is appropriate in order to enable the implementing provisions in the areas covered by this directive, when necessary, to be adjusted to any existing specificities of the particular market and legal system in each member state. this directive should also aim at coordinating national rules concerning access to the activities of insurance and reinsurance distribution. however, this directive is aimed at minimum harmonisation and should therefore not preclude member states from maintaining or introducing more stringent provisions in order to protect customers, provided that such provisions are consistent with union law, including this directive. i agree that the consumers should benefit from the same level of protection despite the differences between distribution channels. in order to guarantee that the same level of protection applies and that the consumer can benefit from comparable standards, a level playing field between distributors is essential.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's legislative resolution on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on insurance mediation (recast) (com ((2012) 0360 c7-0180/2012 2012/0175 ((cod))), as i consider that it brings the necessary changes to harmonise national provisions relating to the distribution of insurance and reinsurance products, thereby ensuring the same level of protection and comparable standards for consumers in the member states of the union.
in writing. ‒ the un convention on the rights of the child states that all children should be guaranteed the right to education, health care, housing, protection, leisure, a balanced diet and to grow up in a family environment. unfortunately, we are witnessing in the eu that the provisions of the convention are not being implemented, leaving many children in even greater need. poverty is getting worse. the proportion of poor children born to parents with lower levels of education has been increasing since 2008, and children born in socially deprived neighbourhoods and ethnically disadvantaged communities are at greater risk of poverty. the need to integrate all people from third countries already living in the eu, as well as those arriving in the eu in waves of migration, including in the light of the fight against child poverty, is therefore urgent. i myself, during my time as mayor of krk, devoted a lot of time and energy to improving the situation of roma and roma children. above all, it is vital to be aware of the value of getting an education. social inequalities are passed on from generation to generation, and children can suffer the consequences of poverty and social exclusion for their whole lives. the fight against poverty therefore requires a set of vertical and horizontal measures which must be geared to reducing social exclusion. one key condition for this is the creation of quality jobs. i supported the report, of course.
in writing. ‒ most member states have so far paid little attention to the use of eu structural funds to combat the worrying and still rising levels of child poverty. to this end, the european commission has prepared a recommendation 'investing in children: breaking the cycle of deprivation'. in this report, it proposed a comprehensive policy framework to tackle the problems of poverty and promote their well-being, based on three pillars. the latter focus on access to adequate european social fund resources, access to quality and inclusive services and children's participation in society and decision-making. the ep has repeatedly called for the implementation of the social investment package and also supports the commission's recommendation. i believe that the fight against child poverty requires an approach that includes all generations, as this is the only way to break the intergenerational cycle of poverty risk. i also believe that the eu should pay more attention to combating child poverty and consequently provide more visibility. only in this way will it be possible to achieve one of the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, which aims to reduce the number of poor by at least 20 million. as the report contains, among other things, good and constructive proposals from the commission for the appropriate fight against child poverty, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a report on reducing inequalities with a special focus on child poverty. as a society, we have a responsibility for the well-being of children and it is incumbent on all of us to fully implement the convention on the rights of the child, which puts the interests, protection and rights of children at the centre. states parties have an obligation to ensure that every child is protected from all forms of violence, abuse, neglect, cruelty and exploitation. the most effective solution to reduce the growing child poverty is to develop the economy, boost economic growth and eliminate unemployment. the economic crisis is affecting the growth of child poverty and the exercise of the rights of children under the united nations convention on the rights of the child.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on reducing inequalities with a special focus on child poverty because child poverty is a very big problem, with as many as one in four children in the european union living at the poverty line or social exclusion. i believe that all children should have the right to education, health care and to grow up in a normal and safe family environment. nor should we allow the need for austerity measures to exacerbate child poverty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on reducing inequalities with a special focus on child poverty. this topic is extremely important and the resolution acknowledges a lot that has been already said at the un level, about guaranteeing to all children the right to education, healthcare services, housing, protection, participation in decisions that affect them, leisure and free time, a balanced diet and the receipt of care in a family environment. but it is still necessary that eu countries also make children a priority in their policies. it is crucial that member states guarantee that all children have access to free, inclusive and quality public education at any age and that member states make a real commitment to developing policies to fight child poverty that focus on correcting child poverty factors and increase the effectiveness, quantity, amounts and scope of the social support specifically directed at children, but also at parents who are unemployed and the phenomenon of the working poor (such as unemployment benefits and adequate minimum income) and to promote labour laws that guarantee social rights.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament resolution on reducing inequalities with a special focus on child poverty (2014/2237 ((ini)) because i agree with the proposed calls in the resolution for the eu institutions, eu agencies, member state authorities and other stakeholders to be actively and comprehensively involved in tackling child poverty and social exclusion. integrated systems for the protection of children and young people, in particular those with special needs, from violence, abuse, exploitation and neglect need to be developed and implemented.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report proposed because i agree with the conclusion that cohesion policy is one of the strongest instruments the eu has at its disposal to increase social cohesion in its regions. certain communities in our society face structural exclusion and segregation from mainstream society, often without access to even basic public infrastructure and services. they are also more vulnerable to poverty. action at eu level is therefore essential, but we must also follow the examples of good practice from individual countries and draw attention to the responsibilities arising from so-called positive discrimination. in slovenia, for example, we face a high unemployment rate in the roma community, as this workforce is less competitive. roma have difficulty entering the labour market, and unfortunately, too often, they refuse to work. the reason is that the amount of the benefit is often lower than the social support they lose by accepting the job. i support positive discrimination for marginalised communities, which should be implemented mainly in the field of and with the help of european funds - structural funds, regional funds for infrastructure solutions and social funds for health and education. it is imperative that the children of these communities also begin to receive proper education, for otherwise we will witness another lost generation.
in writing. ‒ member states, under the charter of fundamental rights of the eu, should feel encouraged to ensure equal treatment of all its citizens, with special attention on the most marginalized groups. in present times, creating environments of integration is of key importance for the prevention also of radicalisation phenomena. ministries at national level should take into account these groups when working on cohesion policies.
in writing. ‒ fringe communities are increasingly at the centre of cohesion policy measures because of concerns and efforts to combat social exclusion. i agree that the issue of peripheral communities needs to be addressed urgently and that cohesion policy plays an important role in supporting their economic, social and territorial integration. in 2010, the european regional development fund introduced funding opportunities for peripheral communities. however, the problem of the lack of definition of peripheral communities has arisen, and the report calls on the commission to develop guidelines for the definition of peripheral communities, which would define the type of characteristics and attributes of peripheral groups. the european social fund benefits people, including disadvantaged groups such as the long-term unemployed, the disabled, migrants, ethnic minorities and people of all ages who are at risk of poverty or social exclusion. the report calls on the member states to implement operational programmes to benefit from european funds to support marginalised communities and also gives detailed guidance on the preparation, implementation and monitoring of these programmes. i believe that it is essential to establish a proper link between the peripheral communities and the use of european funds under cohesion policy. for all the reasons stated above, i supported the report and voted in favour of its adoption.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on cohesion policy and peripheral communities. i agree that european cohesion policy needs to be changed, with the aim of making it more inclusive of peripheral communities. there are still too many people in the member states who are overlooked and under-heard, and we need to offer them equal opportunities and access to health, education and employment. civil society also has a role to play in this. i particularly emphasise the importance of education and the problem of early withdrawal from further education.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on cohesion policy and peripheral communities because i believe that a strong cohesion policy is very important in the fight against inequality. the marginalised groups are often victims of discrimination and poverty and are deprived of basic goods for life, and cohesion policy must prevent this and integrate them into society and give them a more dignified life.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on cohesion policy and marginalised communities because i think the cohesion policy is one of the strongest instruments the european union has at its disposal with which to fight inequality and support territorial and social cohesion in its regions. there are a wide variety of discriminatory structures in place, including sexual orientation and gender identity as well as different cultural, religious or ethnic backgrounds. many people face different forms of discrimination at the same time, especially within roma communities, which are very often marginalised within european societies. i agree that cohesion policy can play a powerful role in changing these realities. not only when looking at challenges in housing or access to public infrastructure, as is already happening in the framework of the erdf, but by providing an integrated approach to tackling all the different forms of discrimination that marginalised communities face. the resolution proposes different measures and recommendations to tackle this challenge to make our national and european societies more inclusive.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on cohesion policy and marginalised communities (2014/2247 ((ini)) because it calls for action to improve the situation of marginalised groups and individuals of all ages, who face poverty and social exclusion and lack access to education, employment, housing and healthcare systems. i believe that the integration of marginalised communities into society, such as the roma community, requires above all the socialisation of children already in childcare and primary school.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the report on the eu's role in the un, which points to shortcomings in the eu's overall approach to the un as the main global forum for improving the world order. the un is undoubtedly the best forum for promoting eu values and interests, as it transfers them to the global level. but there are many problems in the un system that i think are detrimental to the eu. the eu cannot act as a single entity within the un, as un action is geared towards individual states rather than intergovernmental organisations as the eu is. the eu itself has problems with a fragmented foreign policy, which means that it does not play a leading role in international relations. the interests of individual member states play a much greater role here, and the interests of the eu as a whole are often sidelined, as they are often difficult to identify, let alone defend. the eu therefore needs to be united, critical and decisive in tackling the current global challenges, and this must also be demonstrated at un level. states must stop thinking for themselves and defending their interests at all costs, and must tackle the challenges together.
in writing. ‒ the foreign affairs perspective of the eu should not be the weakest link in the union. in the current crisis, the union should endeavour a truly functioning common foreign affairs policy aimed at ensuring security, empowering internal cohesion, the eu’s global identity and effectively developing our neighbourhood as well as driving democracy, peace and mediation processes around the world. in this sense, a stronger impact of eu decisions should be well reflected and integrated into un’s global role.
in writing. ‒ with the increasing interdependence of the world, cooperation between the eu and the un is of paramount importance. the report analyses this cooperation in more depth and concludes that the eu and its member states respect the values and principles enshrined in the un charter. in addition, member states also have a key role to play in promoting the principles and objectives of the un, in particular through international cooperation and relations. i agree that the eu needs partners at global level to help it achieve its foreign policy objectives, particularly in the areas of peace and security, terrorism, organised crime, regional conflicts, state failure and proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. the report recalls that, in order to better achieve its foreign policy objectives, the eu should strive to strengthen global governance within the un system and to increase its influence in the international arena. i believe that the eu and its member states should be at the heart of the post-2015 development agenda and work with the un and all other stakeholders to make ambitious commitments to achieve the future sustainable development goals. i was aware that the future of the eu is linked to world peace, security, development and human rights, and that we must always strive for the best possible international cooperation, so i voted in favour of the report in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report on the role of the european union in the united nations how to better achieve the eu's foreign policy objectives. as an alternate member of the committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of the initiative, in which we stressed the need to improve the efficiency, accountability, effectiveness and transparency of the united nations, particularly with regard to the use of eu funds. the initiative also stressed that the eu must make eu funds more visible. the european union and its member states are the largest financial contributors to the united nations budget.
in writing. ‒ report on the role of the european union in the united nations how to better achieve the eu's foreign policy objectives i supported this report because i believe that closer cooperation between the eu and the un would bring more positive results. the most crucial is certainly the maintenance of peace, and it is important that we strengthen such efforts both at home and beyond.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the role of the eu within the un – how to better achieve eu foreign policy goals – because i agree that in order to better achieve its foreign policy goals as enshrined in the treaty the eu should strive to strengthen global governance inside the un system and to increase its own and its member states’ influence within that system. the resolution recalls the eu’s commitment to actively support a comprehensive reform of the un system in order to strengthen its legitimacy, its regional representation, and its transparency, accountability and effectiveness in responding to the complex, multi-faceted challenges of today and stresses in particular the importance of revitalising the work of the general assembly. as i am also a member of the afet committee in the european parliament, the role of the eu in foreign policy is one of my main topics of interest and this is another reason for supporting this resolution.
i've been following the developments in this committee very closely, and i'm a co-signer of the amendments. like many others, i would like to make it clear that we need more political will to condemn the behaviour of member states that have not cooperated with the committee. this cooperation is key. but if corporations don't respect it, how can we expect member states to respect it? i would like to emphasize three important points which i think should be repeated. first, taxes should be paid where economic activity takes place and where value added is generated. secondly, the harmonization of tax bases is essential. as there are differences in these bases between member states, companies take advantage of this. thirdly, we must do everything possible to ensure that additional measures do not place an even greater burden of bureaucracy on businesses, especially small and medium-sized ones.
the report is certainly important, especially after the recent brutal terrorist attack in paris. it provides for a number of concrete measures, such as the removal of terrorist content from the internet, the exchange of all relevant information between member states and europol, as well as the confiscation of travel documents, the freezing of funds, special surveillance and the updating of the jihadist blacklist. these are the main measures that at the moment concern only a few thousand, perhaps a few tens of thousands of citizens. but when we talk about young people who are at risk of exposure to radicalisation, we can talk about a number of millions. in this case, however, europe needs a long-term, holistic and preventive approach. the aim is to integrate this vulnerable population into society, in the fields of work and education, as well as leisure activities. in the long term, education for active and responsible citizenship and democracy is needed if europe is to remain synonymous with open societies. if we do not equip young people with the values and competences that will ensure their functional integration into european society, we will not only have failed in the task of deradicalizing young people, but also in the construction of the european union. if we fail, we will face a culture clash, social and political tensions and conflicts instead of dialogue, parallel societies instead of open societies, and terrorism will become our daily routine.
terrorists thrive where there is distrust between people of different faiths and backgrounds, where we build stereotypes, hate and xenophobia. the perverted misuse of religion is one of the reasons for radicalization. as well as exclusion from society. more than 5 000 young europeans have joined terrorist organisations. we need a clear fight and a plan against recruitment for terrorism. we need an effective exchange of best practices, information exchange between law enforcement authorities on radicalisation in europe and the fight against illicit arms trafficking. it is essential to prevent radicalisation in european prisons, on the internet, and to strengthen the role of education and social inclusion. but we especially need a strategy to deal with young returnees who are disappointed with their involvement with the islamic state. the socialists and democrats have published a brochure with key priorities in the fight against terrorism, which emphasises not only the security response but also tackling the causes that spread terrorism, war and violence in third countries. i agree that we need to strengthen, increase the effectiveness of our external border controls, but i do not agree with the actions of some european governments, which by tightening border controls, are profiling migrants and refugees on the basis of racial or ethnic origin. hungarian prime minister orban's declaration that all terrorists are migrants is a threat to our democracies.
member of the commission.– mr president, improving health and safety at work is of the utmost importance, in particular taking into account the growing demographic challenge and changing work patterns. good occupational health and safety at work will not only contribute to longer, healthier, safer and more sustainable working lives but will also have a positive impact on the european union’s productivity and competitiveness, and indeed on the sustainability of our social security systems. i thank, once again, the rapporteur, mr christensen, and the shadow rapporteurs and other members of the committee on employment and social affairs and the committee on women’s rights and gender equality for their valuable input. the commission will carefully analyse your suggestions on old and new risks and take them into consideration for its future work. this is about the effective protection of workers while, where possible, making the rules more user-friendly and less burdensome for enterprises, and specifically for smes and micro-enterprises. i am convinced that these two goals can be reached simultaneously, and i hope this will help in achieving our aaa rating, which we need, as well as in terms of economic growth and social progress. this is what we will work on next year.
in writing. i believe that the european commission's strategy on health and safety at work 2014-2020 is essential and of great importance for the entire working population of the eu, as it directly affects every individual. in addition, osh is also in the interest of enterprises, as it improves the productivity and competitiveness of the enterprise. improving health and safety at work across the eu can help the economy recover. a healthier lifestyle would allow more people to remain in the labour market until they actually reach the prescribed retirement age. companies need to be made aware that the administrative burden and costs of complying with and enabling an occupational health and safety policy that promotes well-being, a good working environment and productivity are significantly less than the burden and costs of occupational diseases and accidents. i believe that all workers should have a genuine right to the highest level of health and safety protection at work. this must be ensured regardless of the size of the company, the type of work, the type of employment contract or the member state. prevention of occupational diseases and accidents creates added value for workers and society as a whole. in addition, there is a need to provide additional support to companies that promote safety and health at work.
in writing. health and safety at work is in the interest of the employee, the employer and society as a whole. too often, investing in a healthy work environment is seen as a cost. companies that are only looking for short-term profit avoid this cost. and those companies that are long-term and socially responsible know that they benefit from a healthy employee. a healthy and satisfied worker is more efficient at work, which also has a positive impact on the productivity and competitiveness of the company. healthy employees are also in the interest of society as a whole, as they represent a lower cost in terms of healthcare costs and, in addition, they can work until retirement age. it is therefore appropriate that all stakeholders contribute to achieving the best possible result. the employee must take care of himself first and avoid harmful habits and dangerous behaviour, the employer must ensure that he is constantly investing in the development of a healthy working environment, and the state must support the efforts of both. establishing and maintaining a healthy and safe working environment is a process that is never finished.
in writing. it is customary to raise the issue of discrimination against women in terms of equal pay in public and in parliaments only around 8 march, the day dedicated to women. it is therefore right that the commission should be given the delicate task of confronting the situation and proposing solutions to this well-known injustice. i would like to highlight in particular the most vulnerable groups of women on the lowest incomes or pensions. these are housewives and farmers. because of the lack of adequate regulation of their status in the past in transition countries, many of them now live below the poverty line. the savings measures of the states during the economic crisis also deprived them of the so-called state pensions, which at least partially recognised their contribution to the good of society. today, their material situation depends on welfare. this is an unacceptable position for women who have made a significant contribution to the well-being of their families and society through motherhood and farm work. it would be right and just to improve the social status of impoverished older women. the commission should also speak on this. finally, i would like to draw attention to a fact which speaks volumes about the treatment of domestic work, since domestic work is not work even by statistical standards (among the unemployed and retired, housewives and farmers are classified as 'other inactive women'), which is offensive and unacceptable.
the plenary is honored! we have heard many condemnations of terrorist attacks on european soil in this hall. they are inexcusable, and i feel sorry for all the victims of paris. but i also feel sorry for all the innocent civilian victims in syria, iraq, palestine and so on. we're not taking seriously enough the effective cessation of the war in syria and the resolution of the conflicts in the middle east. because that's where you have to look for the real causes of terrorist attacks. once again, and most powerfully, the stability of europe and the middle east have been shown to be closely linked. the cancer of the wound of instability is the solution to the palestinian question. europe's fragmentation has left it powerless to attack iraq. we are just as helpless now to discuss the refugees, this collateral damage of a destroyed syria, which is largely not caused by europe, and we are now bearing its greatest burden - financially, morally, socially and otherwise. it is precisely because of this fact that we should be all the more united in demanding an end to the war, both before the united states and russia. instead, we are once again engaged in a completely biased and populist way of putting up barbed wire, spreading stereotypes and hate speech. we create material for our own internal division and distrust, which only benefits extremists of all kinds, including populist politicians. if we do not think and speak in a common language in the future, which will include the discourse of the christian, muslim and other european religious communities, and will include both left and right ideologies, and above all if we do not act with a wide open mind and reason, then we may very soon face the reality that europe will no longer be the continent of the now so obvious peace. discussions about the perpetrators and the causes of terrorist attacks will then be completely meaningless. so let's get active, together and now.
in writing. ‒ i supported the budget amendment. the changes relate mainly to the reduction in member states' gni contributions, which will be reduced by as much as eur 9.4 billion. while these funds could have been used to deal with the current migration crisis, member states preferred to return them to national budgets in the council. in this light, it seems even more bizarre that countries are not paying enough into the trust fund for africa and syria, in violation of commitments already made. this is despite the remaining funds for the national budgets which they are promised to receive by adopting this budget amendment. the eu will continue to support the implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities (uncrpd) and the un convention on the rights of the child (uncrpd). this assistance is urgently needed by the countries most exposed, including slovenia.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 8/2015 concerns the amendment of the forecast of traditional own resources and the inclusion in the budget of the (remaining) vat and gni balances for 2014 and 2015. in addition, it provides for a reduction in commitment and payment appropriations of eur 123.474 for the budget of the european data protection supervisor. revenues from customs duties, vat and gni and certain fines were considerably higher than expected, resulting in a reduction of member states' gni contributions by as much as eur 9,4 billion. although this is an automatic technical adjustment, it can be assumed that this very repayment will make a positive contribution to the budgetary negotiations with the council on the amount of over-commitment in the area of migration and humanitarian aid, and i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the council position on the draft amending budget of the european union for the financial year 2015, own resources european data protection supervisor. in order to deal effectively with the refugee or migrant crisis we have been witnessing recently, we need additional financial resources in addition to a single policy. the countries along the so-called balkan route, including slovenia, are the most affected and need additional financial assistance. nor have we yet secured all the financial resources for the trust fund for africa and syria to which member states have committed themselves in recent months.
in writing. ‒ report on the council position on draft amending budget no 8/2015 of the european union for the financial year 2015, own resources european data protection supervisor i supported the european parliament's finding that the refugee crisis has reduced member states' contributions to the union budget by eur 9 403,4 million and that additional financial assistance will be needed to provide humanitarian aid along the transit routes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the council position on draft amending budget no 8/2015 of the european union for the financial year 2015, own resources and european data protection supervisor because i agree that it is necessary to allocate the funding accordingly to the possibilities and priorities, while respecting the agreements on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management. the resolution also underlines that substantial additional financial means are necessary to address the current refugee crisis.
in writing. - i supported the motion. tackling the migration crisis within the eu requires significant resources that countries cannot provide on their own. a common approach to tackling and resolving this problem is therefore essential. the flexibility instrument should therefore be used to provide funding for the migration and refugee area under the eu budget. in this case, this means that the eu budget will reallocate eur 1.5 billion to finance activities in this area over the next four years using the facility. the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. the fact is that a large amount of funding, both from the eu and the member states, will be spent in the coming years to manage the migration crisis, and it is therefore crucial to find solutions to limit the migratory waves as soon as possible. moreover, the pressures on public finances, especially in the areas of social, education and health care, will only intensify in the coming years, which will mean less money for other areas, such as promoting economic growth. action to limit the number of refugees is therefore essential.
in writing. ‒ in order to complement the financing of the european agenda on migration actions from the 2016 general budget, the commission proposed the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument, exceeding the ceiling of title 3 by eur 1,504 million. in the context of the negotiations on the 2016 budget, the management committee agreed to this overrun of the ceiling and, in addition, endorsed parliament's proposal to use the flexibility instrument also for an amount of eur 24 million above the ceiling of title 4 to address the challenges of the refugee crisis. the total amount of the flexibility instrument for 2016 is thus fully committed. as the ceilings of titles 3 and 4 of the 2016 budget do not allow for the financing of emergency measures in the field of migration and refugees, i support the action to mobilise the flexibility instrument for a total amount of eur 1,530 million. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for immediate budgetary measures to deal with the refugee crisis. in the conciliation procedure between the european parliament and the european council, we agreed to use an additional flexibility instrument of eur 24 million in addition to the increase in the eu budget for 2016 for the refugee crisis. the refugee or migrant crisis is becoming more acute by the day, and we need to increase resources and help the countries most affected. more than 250,000 refugees or migrants have passed through slovenia to date, representing more than 10% of the slovenian population.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for immediate budgetary measures to deal with the refugee crisis, in accordance with point 12 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management, as i considered that this instrument should complement the financing from the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016, thus allocating more resources than those foreseen for the financing of measures to deal with the refugee crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for immediate budgetary measures to address the refugee crisis, in accordance with point 12 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management. i agree that due to the urgent needs, it is necessary to mobilise an important additional amount to finance measures to alleviate the migration and refugee crisis and that it is necessary to mobilise the flexibility instrument to complement the financing in the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016, beyond the ceilings of heading 3 by eur 1 506 million and heading 4 by eur 24 million to finance measures in the field of migration and refugees. the unused annual amounts available for the flexibility instruments of the financial years 2014 and 2015 should be used for this mobilisation.
in writing. ‒ the eu solidarity fund is one of the most important eu budget items, enabling rapid response to emergencies caused by major natural disasters. it is also an expression of european solidarity with the regions affected. the fund's resources are limited by law to 500 million per year. the proposed decision does not concern a specific natural disaster but only sets an amount of eur 50 million for commitment and payment appropriations for the timely and effective payment of advances in the event of a disaster occurring in the coming year. slovenia has also benefited from the solidarity fund on several occasions, most recently in the wake of the catastrophic landslide in january 2014, which helped it to recover from the consequences. i voted in favour of the motion without reservations.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund aims to enable the union to respond quickly and effectively to emergencies and to show its solidarity with the population of areas affected by disasters. the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 allows the mobilisation of the fund up to an annual ceiling of eur 500 million. this proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council is not linked to a specific disaster but is intended to ensure the payment of advances from the general budget of the european union for 2016 of eur 50 million to allow the eu to respond in a timely and flexible manner to potential disasters in the coming year. the effectiveness of the fund needs to be improved and the payment of aid to the affected countries in the form of advances accelerated even before the final allocation of funds from the solidarity fund, which is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the use of the eu solidarity fund to pay advances in the 2016 budget. i support the reallocation of eur 50 million from the solidarity fund, which is intended to provide financial assistance to countries affected by natural disasters, to the general budget of the european union for 2016 for commitment and payment appropriations for the timely and effective payment of advances in the event of a disaster occurring in the coming year. solidarity is one of the foundations on which the european union was built, and i therefore support strengthening the effectiveness of the european union solidarity fund.
in writing. ‒ i support the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund, in accordance with point 11 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management, for the payment of advances in the 2016 budget, as the purpose of the european union solidarity fund is to respond quickly, efficiently and flexibly to emergencies and to show its solidarity with the population in areas affected by disasters. considering that a rapid response strategy, including the payment of an advance, is needed to help the union achieve these objectives, i support the entry in the general budget of the union for 2016 of an amount of eur 50 million for commitments and payment appropriations for the timely and effective payment of advances in the event of accidents.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund, in accordance with point 11 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management to provide for payment of advances in the 2016 budget. for the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016, the european union solidarity fund shall be mobilised to provide the sum of eur 50 000 000 in commitment and payment appropriations for the payment of advances, where this decision shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the official journal of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund for the payment of advances in the 2016 budget, providing for an amount of eur 50 000 000 in commitment and payment appropriations for the payment of advances, as i believe this will allow the union to respond quickly, efficiently and flexibly to emergencies and to show its solidarity with the population in disaster-affected areas.
in writing. ‒ just over a week ago, the three institutions agreed on the budget for the coming year. the compromise proposal shows, among other things, the union's willingness to go one step further in the fight against youth unemployment, one of the most pressing problems of our time. youth unemployment in the eu remains unacceptably high. according to the 2015 youth report, the number of unemployed youths is estimated at 8.7 million. i am pleased that the compromise proposal increases the financial commitments for the erasmus+ programme by a whopping €6.6 million. the programme is expected to take four million young people abroad by 2020, and a recent study on the impact of the programme shows that young people with international experience are twice as likely to be long-term unemployed. i also welcome the joint commitment of the three institutions to make the best use of european funds to fight youth unemployment and to consider proposals for the continuation of the youth employment initiative until 2020. both commitments confirm that facilitating and speeding up the integration of young people into the labour market remains one of the main priorities of the european union, which is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the joint text for the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016, approved by the conciliation committee in the budgetary procedure. as vice-chair of the committee on budgets, i was actively involved in the conciliation procedure in which the european parliament and the european council reached an agreement on the budget. i welcome the fact that in the 2016 budget of the european union we managed to reach an agreement to allocate more funds to the youth employment initiative, to tackling the migration crisis, to smes, to erasmus+, to the asylum, migration and integration fund and to the horizon 2020 research programme.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the joint draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016, which was approved by the conciliation committee in the budgetary procedure, as we placed a strong emphasis on strengthening the competitiveness of the european union within the budget, thus also achieving an increase in the items for migration and refugees, for the horizon 2020 research programme, for small and medium-sized enterprises and for the erasmus+ student exchange programme.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the joint text on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016 approved by the conciliation committee under the budgetary procedure. with this resolution we approved the joint text agreed by the conciliation committee, which consists of the following documents taken together; – a list of budget lines not modified, compared to the draft budget or the council’s position;– summary figures by financial framework headings;– line-by-line figures on all budget items;– a consolidated document showing the figures and final text of all lines modified during the conciliation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's legislative resolution on the joint proposal for the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016, because it reflects the political priorities, as it brings increased funding for humanitarian aid, horizon 2020, small and medium-sized enterprises, the erasmus+ programme and funding for migration measures in the member states bearing the brunt of the refugee crisis, and also contains a commitment to continue the youth employment initiative and to reduce the backlog of outstanding accounts.
in writing. ‒ i supported the objection to the authorisation of the use of dehp for the production of soft pvc because of the adverse effects on the health of workers in the production of pvc which could be caused by the use of dehp.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a european parliament resolution on the draft commission implementing decision xxx on the authorisation of bis (2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (dehp), as i believe that the use of dehp should be banned because it is extremely harmful to health. this would also encourage the innovation of companies to use other substances in their products that are not harmful to health and do not affect genetic material as phthalates do.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution that addresses the identification of dehp as a substance giving rise to an equivalent level of concern due to its endocrine disrupting properties in the environment. in the case of dehp, there is scientific evidence on endocrine disrupting activity and on the causal link between this activity and adverse effects on human health. recycling should not justify the perpetuation of the use of hazardous legacy substances, whereas dehp is a legacy substance, and has also been recognised as such by the industry concerned and i agree with the parliament previous potions on ‘resource efficiency: moving towards a circular economy’. i strongly believe that the commission is accountable to the european public for protecting citizens and the environment from hazardous chemicals, while promoting innovation, including in the area of safer chemicals and products to foster a resilient economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the draft commission implementing decision granting authorisation for the use of bis{2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (dehp) under regulation (ec) no 1907/2006 of the european parliament and of the council (d041427 2015/2962{rsp)) as it calls on the commission to withdraw the draft implementing decision and propose a new one rejecting applications for authorisation for formulations of recycled soft pvc containing dehp, as it has been scientifically proven that dehp acts as an endocrine disruptor and that there is a causal link between this activity and adverse effects on human health.
in writing. ‒ the report of the committee on taxation is a response to a number of cases of questionable tax practices by some member states that have been revealed over the past year. these tax practices have undoubtedly had a negative impact on other countries, including those which have to implement austerity measures. i am surprised that in practice member states have not respected the old commitment to inform each other of tax practices that could affect another country. moreover, in some cases they have contributed to distortions of competition in the european internal market by exploiting the grey areas of tax systems. promoting an attractive business environment and attracting investment is certainly very important in today's world. however, the manipulation of tax systems for this purpose is an unacceptable measure. the report calls for multinationals to make public all their tax positions, including information on their business, and proposes a european common consolidated tax base to avoid exploiting differences between member states' tax systems, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on taxation positions and other measures of a similar nature or with similar effect. we all want a more efficient, fair and transparent tax policy. we must put an end to unfair tax competition practices. i welcome the fact that the report emphasises the need to develop a balanced and fair tax policy as an integral part of structural reforms in the member states. we need better cooperation between member states in terms of better coordination of measures and exchange of information.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on taxation and other measures of a similar nature or similar effect, as it is imperative to shape europe's tax future and to change the tax system so that taxes are paid where value added and profits are actually generated, and tax bases need to be harmonised. this resolution is an important step forward in the fight against tax evasion and provides transparency of transactions as automatic exchange of data becomes mandatory.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect. the resolution calls on member states and eu institutions, which share the political responsibility for the current situation, to put an end to harmful tax competition and fully cooperate in order to eliminate mismatches – and refrain from creating further mismatches – between tax systems and harmful tax measures which create the conditions for massive tax avoidance by mncs and tax base erosion within the internal market. i also agree with the call on member states to notify the commission and other member states about any relevant changes to their corporate taxation law that could have an impact on their effective tax rates or on any other member state’s tax revenue. i think it is necessary to stress that the member states that play a pivotal role in facilitating tax avoidance should take responsibility and lead the efforts to improve tax cooperation within the eu, therefore i supported the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the european parliament resolution on tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect because i believe that it is essential to introduce additional measures to combat tax avoidance at national level within the eu and the oecd, as uncoordinated responses can lead to additional inconsistencies and opportunities for tax avoidance. the recommendations of the resolution are in line with the principle of sincere cooperation between member states, as defined in the treaty on european union, since the prevention of the erosion of the tax base requires coordinated cooperation between member states and not the unilateral introduction of preferential regimes to attract investment.
in writing. ‒ radicalisation in europe, especially by islamic fundamentalists, is a major problem which is unfortunately only getting worse. the recent terrorist attacks in paris show that the eu must take stronger action to prevent radicalisation, which is mainly taking place in ethnically and socially deprived areas of major european cities. a concrete example of this is the brussels neighbourhood of molenbeek saint-jean, which has gained the infamous reputation of being the european capital of jihadism. while the fight against the radicalisation of eu citizens is primarily a member state responsibility, cooperation between member states, in particular in the exchange of intelligence on these individuals, is key to preventing radicalisation and terrorism. a common approach is therefore needed, as these are issues of concern to the eu as a whole. the latter is under-resourced in providing an adequate level of safety and this needs to be changed. i also supported the reports because they point to the need to develop a comprehensive strategy to prevent radicalisation, which must provide longer-term solutions for the security of european citizens. we must be ruthless with the terrorists.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support rachida dati on creating environments to prevent that religion, an expression of an individuals search of gratefulness, plenitude and love is being used as an excuse for barbarism, regression and terrorism. it is also in our endeavours the chance to foster the creation of environments that would avoid radicalisation by encouraging constructive dialogue among different faiths and religions.
in writing. ‒ it is known that more than 5000 european citizens have joined terrorist organisations and other military formations to date. the recent terrorist attacks in france, belgium, tunisia and copenhagen have clearly demonstrated that the presence and movement of 'foreign' fighters, often eu citizens, on the territory of europe and in its neighbourhood pose a threat to its security. the report identifies some good measures to combat terrorism and prevent radicalisation. the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism, and has been active in the fight against organised crime, including the fight against organised crime. all the above-mentioned approaches are based on knowledge of the complex and dynamic processes involved in terrorism and radicalisation. they also want to prevent further stereotyping of religion, which can lead to an escalation of hate crimes and hate speech that promote racism, xenophobia and intolerance. i believe that european cooperation is essential for the successful and efficient exchange of information between law enforcement authorities in order to combat the cross-border nature and the dangers posed by terrorism, radicalisation and the recruitment of european citizens by terrorist organisations. i agree that a common european approach is necessary and will bring added value for coordination or harmonisation, which is why i voted for the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on preventing the radicalisation and recruitment of european citizens by terrorist organisations. following the attack on charlie hebdo earlier this year and the recent terrorist attacks in paris, we need a strengthened, effective and united fight against terrorism. the european union needs to pool all its knowledge and exchange best practice between member states. we also need to strengthen cooperation between the intelligence services of the different member states and to strengthen europol. by strengthening the system of exchange of judicial information and preventive cooperation in the field of terrorism, we will take a big step forward.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on preventing radicalisation and recruitment of european citizens by terrorist organisations because i believe that radicalisation and extremism must be firmly countered by various measures, including increased controls at external borders, rapid and effective exchange of information between member states, prevention online and in prisons, and social inclusion and education of those groups most vulnerable to such extremism.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the prevention of radicalisation and recruitment of european citizens by terrorist organisations because i believe it is extremely important to cope with this issue, in order to prevent unwanted consequences that could follow in the future. radicalisation has become a term used to describe the phenomenon of people embracing intolerant opinions, views and ideas which could lead to violent extremism and the resolution sets out concrete proposals for a comprehensive strategy to tackle extremism, to be applied in particular in prisons, online and through education and social inclusion. the important part of the resolution is the chapter about preventing radicalisation through education and social inclusion where we also called on the commission to support member states in carrying out a communication campaign to raise the awareness of young people and of supervisory staff as regards issues of radicalisation and encouraged the establishment of close cooperation between all civil society actors at national and local level, and of greater cooperation between actors on the ground, such as associations and ngos.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on preventing the radicalisation and recruitment of european citizens by terrorist organisations because i believe it rightly recognises that to tackle it, coordinated european action is needed to prevent new terrorist acts. the proposed measures, such as the removal of terrorist content from the internet, the exchange of all relevant information between member states and europol, as well as the confiscation of travel documents, the freezing of funds, the surveillance of individuals and the updating of the 'blacklist' of jihadists, are the main measures that concern only a few thousand, perhaps ten thousand, european citizens at the moment. the strategy to combat extremism, radicalisation and terrorist recruitment within the eu is only successful if it is developed in parallel with a strategy for the integration and social inclusion of young people, who are the most vulnerable population. the aim is to integrate this vulnerable population into society in the fields of work and education as well as leisure activities. if we do not equip young people with the values and competences that will ensure their 'functional' integration into european society, we will not only have failed in the task of deradicalizing young people, but also in the task of building the eu. if we fail, we will face a culture clash, social and political tensions.
in writing. ‒ cancer is the most common cause of work-related deaths and we must protect workers from exposure to carcinogens and mutagens. people need to be provided with a safe and healthy working environment. an effective and strategic approach to the prevention of occupational diseases and accidents and a greater focus on the collective effect of occupational risks, which creates added value for workers and society as a whole, is needed, and i therefore support this report, which calls on the commission and the member states to develop appropriate policies on ageing. i believe that the regulatory framework for occupational safety and health should also promote healthy ageing, and that this can also contribute to the objective of active and healthy ageing for all workers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu strategic framework for safety and health at work 2014-2020. the charter of fundamental rights of the european union is clear on this matter, stating that every worker has the right to healthy and safe working conditions that respect his or her dignity. the economic aspect is also important. occupational safety and health should be an investment for the employer, not a cost, as the costs of occupational diseases and accidents are much higher than the costs of occupational health and safety policies.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the eu strategic framework for safety and health at work 2014-2020 because it presents many important challenges in the field of safety and health at work, both for employers and for employees. i believe that all employees are entitled to a safe and healthy working environment. although the field of occupational safety and health has progressed over the years, there are still many risks for workers. it is therefore necessary to improve the monitoring of how member states improve the situation in this area and thus also to provide labour inspectors with supporting resources and to provide them with sufficient staff to carry out their work efficiently and effectively.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it is important to acknowledge the facts, such as that every year more than 4 000 workers die due to accidents at work and the number of fatal work-related diseases amounts to more than 150 000 every single year. good health is a fundamental right in europe and even though considerable progress has been made in the area of occupational health and safety (osh) throughout the years, major risks to workers’ health and safety continue to exist. the workforce in many member states is ageing and the demographic changes in europe point to the need to promote a safe and healthy working environment for all workers throughout their working life cycle. furthermore, the labour market in europe is changing. precarious employment is on the rise and new forms of employment as well as new technologies have brought about new osh challenges that remain to be addressed. the negative impact that precarious employment has on workers’ mental health in europe points to the need for a targeted approach to improve the health and safety situation of these workers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the eu strategic framework for safety and health at work 2014-2020, as i believe that it proposes a number of measures to improve working conditions that protect physical and mental health, including calling on the commission and the member states to eliminate overtime work, to include domestic work in a targeted approach, and to ensure and enable an appropriate work-life balance. health and safety at work is an investment with a positive impact on the productivity and competitiveness of the enterprise, and it also improves the sustainability of social security systems.
thank you, chairman. africa is in crisis, the middle east is in crisis, europe is in crisis. hundreds of thousands of desperate people are fleeing to european soil today. we are still in shock from the brutal attacks in paris, the new terrorist threats. if we don't respond together, if we give in to fear and start building walls, it's not going to protect anyone. countries have already built more than 235 km of fence on the external border of the union, and we have paid more than 175 million euros. it didn't stop people, it just redirected them to another path, the balkan path, where the situation is today! today, at the initiative of slovenia and croatia, the leaders of the western balkan countries are meeting in zagreb. in recent weeks, the union's leaders have taken a series of measures, including in valletta, to raise funds for emergency aid, to establish safe and legal routes to europe, to relocate people, to register people. but where are those promised deeds today? chaos on our borders is growing every day. many countries, including my own slovenia, feel that they are left to their own devices. i'm concerned because most of my fellow citizens today believe that fences are the only solution. europeans are losing confidence. countries don't trust each other anymore, we're shifting responsibility to each other. we all pay the price in the end. the refugee and migrant crisis is an extraordinary challenge for the union, but it is far from being an existential threat. if we could manage immigration, we could also identify security threats before they even occur. if we do not, countries will continue to pursue policies of self-defence which, instead of integration, lead to a very dangerous isolation. then schengen will be seriously threatened. the future europe faces an even greater challenge of integrating people into our society who are and will remain on european soil, and we do not want to create new ghettos, which are the source of the problems of radicalisation of young people today, where violent extremism is on the rise. i recommend watching the film mediterranean, which was a finalist for the lux prize yesterday, about illusions and stereotypes. italian president mattarella said here today that no country, no matter how proud or powerful, can fight alone. and i agree with him. let us act while there is still time for europe, for africa, for all people who have the right to live in peace and stability wherever they are.
the valletta summit was necessary and useful. i welcome the action plan, the establishment of the trust fund and all other measures to alleviate migratory pressures, strengthen efforts to address root causes and help to create a new development paradigm for african countries. i see the valletta summit as an expression of an understanding of shared responsibility and a desire for partnership and solidarity. the refugee crisis is a prominent element in the wider conflict context. the only way to save her is to improve the context. i would like the valetta summit to be followed by a permanent and strategic dialogue between the european union and africa. as i said in the debate on sustainable development and the post-millennial goals, all that we aspire to can be achieved if our societies live in peace and freedom, if they are attentive to the dignity of each and every individual and to all identities, regardless of their number. achieving peace in our neighborhood is our first priority. but we're not going to make much progress if we keep shooting at different targets in syria and have partners shoot down each other's planes. we will solve the european problem if we successfully solve the african problems and develop a credible partnership with turkey. the divergent response of the member states to president juncker's financial initiative has not strengthened the credibility of the european union. money may not be everything, but avoiding solidarity today will surely mean a higher bill later.
of course, the numbers on migrants are unpredictable, and la valetta has also confirmed this about migration itself, especially about the modest forecasts or the unclear numbers of what will happen in the future. but it's good that this summit has brought together european, african leaders, humanitarian organizations, to agree on some measures that we hope will be taken as soon as possible... (the president interrupted the speaker for a technical problem and then returned the floor to him. ) so, we are reading different numbers about the migration flows that will happen in the future, and this meeting in la valletta is a confirmation of that. this meeting, which brought together european and african leaders and some humanitarian organisations and associations, also made some concrete proposals, some of which, of course, were considered by some to be too vague, while others were satisfied with the result. the fund is to be set up at an amount of eur 1,8 billion. it is clear that we must be careful about who this fund is going to be for, who will be paying into it and how we will of course also control it. above all, however, it is important to reach agreement between the countries of origin of the refugee crisis, the countries of transit and the countries of destination, and thus to begin to address the root causes that led to this refugee crisis in the first place.
burundi is one of many cases that call for cooperation and a response from the international community, but as in other cases, we are usually too late. the situation in burundi has been noted for years, including this may, when rivers of refugees poured into tanzania, when a cholera epidemic actually began, when diseases that were previously absent returned. and this chaos, this violence, this killing, it's kind of continuing, and it's a shared responsibility of our communities. if we talk about co-financing, we are talking about co-financing those projects that lead to peace, harmony and cooperation, not to the killing and terrorism and the production of refugees that we then deal with on our own soil.
we have heard a lot of positive thoughts and words about georgia today the question is of course what is really real and data on progress, information about the country that can be an example to others. of course, it is very important how we measure this progress, how we measure the effects of this progress, what are the criteria, and that is why i asked for the floor, because i think it is important that the european commission and the european parliament also cooperate with the institution that is here through the portal, the council of europe, which has a major role in assessing the situation of human rights and democracy, the situation in the field of justice, freedom of the media, freedom of expression, and sometimes i think it is necessary that the commission and the council of europe cooperate more on these very fundamental standards, such as human rights, and on assessing progress, because we know that the council of europe also has standards already in place.
it is one year since the signing of the agreement between the european union and moldova on trade, on association pathways, on customs and other options, which opens up a greater path for moldova to exchange goods, goods, including in some ways labour between the european union and moldova. it is also one year since our delegation visited the elections in moldova, and i was there myself, and i have to say that the so-called pro-european forces were of course winning, but they had obviously lost the confidence of the citizens. now the vast majority no longer support joining or going to the european union, and all this is really the fruit of those who have betrayed the trust in some way. we were talking about the problems of justice, media freedom and the banking system, and that of course proved fatal, and today instead of talking about progress, we are talking about people on the streets and a worse outlook than it was a year ago.
mr president of the court of auditors, madam commissioner, the president, welcome. the error rate found by the court this year is relatively high. the court of auditors sets up a mirror every year to reflect the use of european money, but it is true that the court of auditors cannot simply examine all transactions involving european money, and national courts and, of course, the internal control system also play an important role in this. only by working together with all of them and with the commission can we achieve better results in the analysis of errors and irregularities. many errors also occur at the expense of public procurement, and as we know, legislation in this area is changing in all member states, and this too is a window for improvement. i am convinced that if we help the member states here and improve the financial culture, the error rate will also be relatively lower in the future.
thank you for your words, chairman. thank you to the court of auditors for your report. the error rate is therefore again 4,4%. this is important information. the budget of the european union is very important. it is about economic growth, jobs and employment. it also represents added value for each member state, which must therefore carefully pursue these objectives. control of the use of budgetary resources is also of great importance. this requires transparency, credibility and i am also pleased that we are applying high standards of error detection. of course, the controls must also be effective. however, i would point out that the error rate of 4,4% perhaps reminds us that the rules should perhaps be clearer and more unambiguous. it's the only way to reduce the error rate.
thank you for your words, chairman. the many serious human rights violations in third countries call for a clear and resolute condemnation by all of us and a call for an immediate end to all acts of violence. ethical and sectarian persecution, abduction and killing of civilians, repression of the opposition, numerous attacks on freedom of expression, against journalists, bloggers and civil society. all these are reprehensible acts which must be condemned unanimously and the authorities must be required to respect the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms. it is also necessary to condemn war crimes, terrorism and the financing of terrorist operations with a firm hand and to strengthen the functioning of democratic institutions. the 2015 winner of the sakharov prize for freedom of thought is raif badavi, a blogger, writer and activist from saudi arabia who was sentenced to ten years in prison and a thousand lashes for criticizing islam. by electing badawi, we in the european parliament have sent a clear message that the right to freedom of expression cannot be denied or curtailed.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the state of play of the implementation of the doha development agenda ahead of the 10th wto ministerial conference (2015/2632 ((rsp)) as i believe that we need such a trade agenda based on the free movement of goods and services, while taking into account the interests of developing and least developed countries, whose needs are the greatest. the programme, based on impartial rules, will contribute to fairer trade, geared towards economic development and poverty eradication.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the state of play of the implementation of the doha development agenda ahead of the 10th wto ministerial conference, as i believe that this trade agreement is based on fairer and more equitable rules and thus contributes to fair and equitable trade, aimed at the economic development of all continents and the eradication of poverty.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motions for resolutions on the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement between the eu and its member states and colombia and peru, as i believe that ecuador is a strategic partner of this trade agreement and that ecuador's exports to the eu will bring many benefits, and that this cooperation will increase investment both in ecuador and in the union. this will have a significant impact on economic and social development and indirectly contribute to reducing poverty and inequality.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on ecuador's accession to the eu-colombia-peru trade agreement because i believe that the agreement will increase and diversify trade and investment on both sides and contribute to reducing poverty and inequality. i also support the resolution's call for a cooperation agreement between ecuador and the eu to support specific environmental programmes in relation to the prevention of deforestation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the new animal welfare strategy for 2016-2020. i join the call in the resolution for the european commission to start implementing the outstanding points of the european union animal welfare strategy 2012-2015 as soon as possible, and to assess the existing strategy and prepare a new, ambitious animal welfare strategy for the period 2016-2020. i also miss more effective implementation of existing legislation.
in writing. ‒ i supported the joint motion for a european parliament resolution on a new animal welfare strategy for 2016-2020, as i believe that, despite the fact that the level of animal welfare in the eu is one of the highest in the world, this level still needs to be upgraded and measures that have already been established in the past but unfortunately not yet implemented should also be implemented. i believe that the animal welfare strategy for the period 2016-2020 is very important, as it also indirectly affects human health. the new strategy would also contribute to the harmonisation of animal welfare standards in the european union by defining good animal husbandry.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on a new animal welfare strategy for 2016-2020, as i believe it proposes a well-founded call on the commission to address in a comprehensive manner environmental and public health problems that also arise from a lack of concern for animal welfare. the resolution calls on the commission to support the development of a new sustainable food policy that would take into account the improvement of animal welfare on farms in conjunction with the expansion of plant-based food and consumption.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the education of children in emergencies and long-term crises. the right to education is one of the most important human rights, yet according to the united nations, as many as 250 million children under five are still denied the basic right to education worldwide. this is outrageous, and we must all work together to establish instruments to improve the education of children in countries where emergencies are prevalent. education is also vital to eradicating poverty.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a european parliament resolution on the education of children in emergencies and long-term crises (2015/2977 ((rsp)) because i believe that every child has the right to education. whereas free primary education should be his fundamental right, regardless of where he comes from and the circumstances in which he lives. it is necessary to ensure that all children have access to education, as education is essential for the enjoyment of other social and economic rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the way to a simplified and performance-oriented cohesion policy for 2014-2020. despite the reforms of cohesion policy for the 2014-2020 programming period, we are still faced with overly complex and bureaucratic procedures, both for beneficiaries and for administrative bodies. i would draw attention to the small and medium-sized enterprises, which are still important in the european union, representing 99% of all enterprises in the european union and providing two thirds of jobs in the private sector.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's motion for a resolution on a simplified and performance-oriented cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020, as i believe that member states need to provide a good plan to unify and simplify the management, monitoring, reporting and control activities of the european structural and investment funds, which are now too complex for both beneficiaries and national authorities.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's motion for a resolution on a simplified and performance-oriented cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020, as i believe that implementation, management, reporting and control in relation to the european structural and investment funds are still too complex for both beneficiaries and administrative bodies, especially those with less administrative and financial capacity.
question asked by raising the blue card. mr. farage, you have very firmly written off the weaknesses you see in our relationship with turkey. can you name another country that could more effectively contribute at this moment to what we are fighting against, which is to bring the refugee crisis under control? and secondly, did you speak out as strongly at home when your country was participating in the destruction of the countries from which refugees are now fleeing to europe?
the economy is the right choice and i support the commission's transfer of the proposal within the promised deadline. it has to become a new model, not just a bunch of papers, a bunch of goals. as we've said here today, it has to become a way of life, and in implementing this circular economy, we also have to focus a lot on the human being, because the individual decides how much to put on the plate, whether or not to throw food away, the individual decides what to do with the waste. it is essential that we focus on young people, who can be the main promoters of this type of economy, but also those who will carry this behaviour into european homes. i look forward to having a further discussion on the objectives in this process, to correcting those that we consider to be too unambitious, and above all to making this circular economy a reality for the future.
in writing. the european commission has presented a new proposal for a package of measures on the circular economy and resource use. i welcome the fact that the commission has finally taken a step towards the much-needed transition to a circular economy, but i believe that the new proposal falls short of the ambitions it set out to achieve. although the newer package adds new elements, it does not contain the key measures of the previously withdrawn proposal. i can cite as an example the provisions on resource efficiency at eu level. the previous proposal set a 30% resource efficiency target by 2030, while the revised package does not. the effects of such an integration could be seen in the creation of 2 million new jobs and a 1% increase in gdp. the new circular economy package also does not bring resource consumption indicators to the european semester. more ambitious proposals would bring about a number of much needed changes from an environmental, economic and social point of view. therefore, i believe that the more recent package of proposals, which does not contain effective and binding measures to reduce resource consumption and does not include resource consumption indicators in the framework of the european semester, will unfortunately not contribute to sustainable development to the extent that is needed and desired.
in writing. the efficient use of our resources is an important priority for all of us. as my colleagues in the els political group, i welcome today's presentation by the european commission. we cannot waste resources today that our future generations will need to use. we need to be efficient. we have to work so that we leave as little trace as possible. but it is not unimportant to use the resources available to us for what purpose. we must use them efficiently, and their use must be linked to economic growth, employment and, of course, environmental protection. but we must be careful. we need ambitious but realistic targets. if we set an unrealistic goal today, we've accomplished nothing. let us be consistent and exploit the potential that the circular economy certainly brings.
in writing. i support the report and congratulate my colleague, ms metsola, on a job well done. i support the establishment of a complaints mechanism. such a mechanism should be in place for any similar organisation. the fact is that the new rights will be a considerable burden for refugees, migrants and asylum seekers and, above all, will increase the cost of the agency's work. that will certainly happen if the right to anonymous complaint is exercised. but i would like to stress that we are living in a time when we must be even more concerned about establishing the most effective service possible, which will actually protect the external borders of the european union, which is why it was created in the first place. in practice, frontex is all too much like a paper tiger. it has no executive powers; it is a group of visiting officials who work with the authorities of a member state. today, when external borders have been abolished and european security is threatened, we need a strong and effective frontex to fulfil its mission, and one which respects the csf.
it is essential that cities implement sustainable urban development, digitalisation, investment and innovation in urban transport as soon as possible. sustainable urban mobility for me means the prudent use and combination of different forms of transport: cars, public transport, bicycles and walking, as each of them has both advantages and disadvantages. good practices such as those in denmark and the netherlands show that sustainable mobility is not a utopia. of course, we also need to shift our minds so that we don't associate using public transportation or cycling with exertion. science gives us the tools to change people's behavior. behavioral economics studies and explains why consumers make the choices they do. it is high time to make better use of these insights to develop more effective policies, including in promoting sustainable urban mobility.
gender equality, one of the important principles of a modern democratic society, is an approach that allows women and men to participate equally in all areas of public and private life. in addition to the gender balance in political participation, which we have been working on for the last few years, we also need a gender balance in the economic sphere. i welcome the initiative to accelerate the council's adoption of a common position on the commission's 2012 directive introducing a minimum target of 40% of the under-represented gender on non-executive directors' boards. many studies in this area demonstrate that gender-balanced management boards achieve better results with significantly more integrated decisions, taking into account the wishes and expectations of both female and male populations.
so this is one of the largest parks in the world, it's one of the parks with almost the greatest biodiversity, and there's been warnings for years about the dangers of oil drilling in these areas. and despite numerous warnings and unesco guidelines on how multinational corporations operate, the attempt was made, in effect, to gain control of national parks through the influence of capital. thank god, it didn't happen exactly like that, but it certainly left its mark. however, i think we also have to communicate from this platform that these parks can also be a huge opportunity for so-called sustainable development, also for so-called alternative energy sources, which can of course also create new jobs, in this case more than 50,000 jobs, as shown in one of the studies. and it's actually our duty to support that.
according to the world health organization, as many as 5 percent of the world's population, or 360 million people, have some form of hearing impairment, and of these, some 80 million are deaf. deaf and hard of hearing people have great difficulty communicating and integrating into the environment in which they live, study, work or spend their leisure time, which can lead to various forms of social exclusion. one of the key problems faced by deaf people is the lack of access to information and education in sign language, which consequently hinders the exercise of all other rights. this is also a major problem in terms of access to information in the media, especially on television. this can be achieved by subtitling the dry content on television, which is a minimal cost financially, but on the other hand, of course, a step forward. finally, i would like to point out that some of the european parliament's content is also very difficult for deaf people to access, and that it is therefore worth considering the qualification of sign languages as official languages in the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i was very pleased to support the establishment of a special committee on taxation to examine the practice of implementing eu state aid and tax legislation and to examine harmful corporate tax systems and practices at european and international level. i'm a big believer in paying taxes where the revenue and profits are generated. the luxleaks affair has exposed very unfair practices by individual countries and it is right that the eu is actively addressing this problem, as it is practically legal tax evasion. i am not opposed to countries having different tax systems and rates, but they still compete with each other, which is useful. it is unfair, however, for a company to operate in one country and pay tax where it is most advantageous. so i really hope for better information exchange between countries, the elimination of such by-passes and better solutions quickly.
in writing. ‒ i supported the establishment of the special committee on taxation and other measures of a similar nature. as many member states have not fully cooperated with the taxe committee in the past, i think it is good that we continue to work. continuing the work of the taxe committee will increase the pressure on the council and the member states. we, like the els group, believe that the existing taxe has done its job well. by and large, the committee has achieved the objectives it set out to achieve. so we don't need a whole new committee starting up again. the new taxe committee should not repeat the work of the first committee, but should build on it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision on setting up a special committee on tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect. in this document i supported the decision to set up a special committee (taxe ii) to examine the practice in the application of eu state aid and taxation law in relation to tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect issued by member states. the taxe ii special committee will have 45 members. i agree that the new committee should build on the work done previously, in particular to tackle unresolved issues and that focusing on harmful corporate tax regimes and practices at european and international level is essential for ensuring transparency in this field.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament decision (taxe 2) on the establishment of a special committee on tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect, its powers, numerical strength and mandate (2015/3005 ((rso)) because i agree that there is a need to examine the practice in the application of eu state aid and tax legislation with regard to tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect implemented by member states.
in writing. ‒ i supported the appointments to the special committee on taxation. in view of the work of the original taxe committee, i think it is important that all those appointed to this committee are aware that the existing work needs to be upgraded, not repeated.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour and thereby supported the appointments to the special committee on tax rulings because i agree with the importance of the role of this special committee and i support the tasks that have been assigned to it. it will have several powers, such as: to analyse and examine practice regarding tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect; proposing to member states appropriate measures required by the progressive development or by the functioning of the internal market, checking whether aid granted by a state or through state resources is compatible with the internal market and not misused, deciding that the state concerned is to abolish or alter such aid within a certain period of time, and referring the matter to the court of justice of the european union if the state concerned does not comply; to analyse and examine compliance by member states regarding the obligation to cooperate and provide all necessary documents; and to analyse and examine compliance concerning mutual assistance by the competent authorities of the member states in the field of direct taxation and taxation of insurance premiums. i believe that the granting of such powers to the special committee will guarantee heightened transparency in this field.
in writing. ‒ the eu-liechtenstein agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account data is a logical consequence of recent revelations that huge amounts of money, including illicitly acquired money, are hidden in the accounts of smaller countries, and individuals are trying to avoid taxation in their home country. with the exchange of information, at least in the case of liechtenstein, this will no longer be possible, hence my support for the agreement.
in writing. ‒ on 28 october 2015, the eu and liechtenstein signed an agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information. the purpose of the agreement is to improve international cooperation in the field of taxation and compliance. this is an upgrade of the 2004 agreement, which has already achieved that liechtenstein implements measures equivalent to those of the eu savings tax directive. the new agreement will provide for the automatic exchange of information on residents' financial accounts between the eu and liechtenstein as of 2017. this will enable the tax authorities in the member states and liechtenstein to identify the relevant taxpayers correctly and unambiguously and to administer and enforce national tax legislation in cross-border situations. the tax authorities will also be able to assess the likelihood of tax evasion and thus ensure that further investigations are carried out where necessary and justified. as the agreement has many advantages, including the prevention of situations where a taxpayer tries to conceal capital in the form of income or assets for which he has not paid tax, and in general to prevent various forms of tax fraud, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i supported the eu-liechtenstein agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account data. i think it is important that the countries with which the eu cooperates economically and financially gradually adopt the same standards in these areas. this is mainly due to the fact that many companies, as well as individuals, report their profits in so-called tax havens because of the favourable tax situation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i support this agreement between the eu and liechtenstein, which ensures the automatic exchange of information on the bank accounts of each other’s residents, starting in 2018. the information to be exchanged includes not only income, such as interest and dividends, but also account balances and proceeds from the sale of financial assets. i believe this is necessary to clamp down on tax fraud and tax evasion by ensuring that liechtenstein applies stricter measures, equivalent to those in place within the eu since march 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament legislative resolution on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the amending protocol to the agreement between the european community and the principality of liechtenstein providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in council directive 2003/48/ec on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments (com (2015) 0395 c8-0320/2015 2015/0175 nle)) as i believe that it will further strengthen the efforts and cooperation between the eu and liechtenstein to combat tax fraud and tax evasion.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european ombudsman's special report on the own-initiative inquiry into frontex, as it recommends, in the first instance, the establishment of an individual complaint mechanism. this would enable individuals to exercise their right to an effective remedy in the event of a breach of their fundamental rights, which has so far proved to be a legal loophole within the scheme. some other improvements in the regulation are also mentioned. in the current migration crisis, frontex is given more and more tasks, and it is positive that any ambiguities regarding its operation are also being resolved.
in writing. ‒ frontex has to be given the necessary space to set up its own mechanism with its own structure and legal safeguards. i believe that in the current situation, frontex is a key player to safeguard eu external borders and any obstacles that would make its operations difficult should be removed.
in writing. ‒ frontex's mission is to ensure the effective implementation of common rules on standards and procedures for the control and surveillance of the external borders by coordinating operational cooperation between member states more closely. frontex thus carries out various operations in the member states where they are most needed. these are mainly attended by visiting officials sent by other member states to provide support. they may perform their tasks and exercise their powers in accordance with the instructions and in the presence of border guards of the host member state. in 2012, the european ombudsman launched an own-initiative inquiry into frontex's implementation of its fundamental rights obligations. in its report, it states the need to introduce an individual complaint mechanism. i agree that, given the increasing humanitarian and legal challenges at the eu's external borders, frontex should establish a complaints mechanism. this would allow for the handling of complaints from individuals concerning alleged violations of fundamental rights during operations. persons alleged to have been harmed by border guards bearing the frontex emblem and third parties acting in the interests of those persons would have the right to lodge a complaint. the introduction of this appeal mechanism would give individuals the opportunity to exercise their right to an effective remedy, which is why i supported the report in plenary.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european ombudsman's special report on the own-initiative inquiry oi/5/2012/beh-mhz concerning frontex, as i believe that frontex needs to be strengthened and its powers extended, as it is a very important body in relation to illegal immigration and is a key actor in returning migrants back to their home country. i also believe that frontex needs to be made more efficient and thus better protect the external borders of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i agree that the eu’s frontex border agency should set up a system to handle complaints about alleged breaches of the fundamental rights of migrants and asylum seekers. with this i also supported the european ombudsman’s recommendation. the mechanism should become ‘a first-instance body for complaints’, and i agree with the recommendation that any individuals who consider that their rights have been breached by border guards wearing the frontex emblem should have the right to lodge a complaint. i also support the call on the member states and the partner countries which have concluded working arrangements with frontex to cooperate efficiently with the agency in order to ensure the smooth running of the complaints mechanism, and a call for additional resources to ensure that the frontex fundamental rights office is adequately equipped and staffed to handle complaints.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament resolution on the special report of the european ombudsman on an own-initiative inquiry oi/5/2012/beh-mhz concerning frontex (2014/2215(ini)) as i agree that the future revision of the frontex regulation should include provisions on an individual complaint mechanism that will allow individual complaints concerning alleged violations of fundamental rights during frontex operations to be addressed. in particular, i also find it justified to call for the simultaneous establishment of safeguards to prevent abuse of the complaints mechanism, such as, inter alia, clear criteria for the admissibility of complaints (on grounds of a complaint for a breach of fundamental rights protected by eu law), the prohibition of anonymous complaints and the introduction of a standard complaint form, which will require detailed information on the alleged breach of fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament resolution on the sustainability of urban mobility, which we also supported in the epp group, welcomes the european commission's report on urban mobility, as there has been a great deal of progress in this area in recent years. innovation in sustainable transport, both for freight and passengers, is also improving, with emphasis on the importance of spatial planning and further active work on reducing emissions from transport. highly developed, efficient, affordable, safe and accessible public transport is a very important component of sustainable urban development. in slovenia too, we have problems with the efficiency of public transport, especially urban and intercity transport, and i am sure that there are many areas where considerable improvements are possible. i support the resolution and at the same time hope that its recommendations will be taken into account by the competent authorities in slovenia.
in writing. ‒ i agreed with the report, though i consider more ambition is needed on urban mobility – as cities concentrate most of the population and generate most of the air pollution as well.
in writing. ‒ urban mobility is predominantly based on the use of conventional-powered vehicles. as a result, 96% of the energy needs of transport in the eu depend on oil and petroleum derivatives, corresponding to about one third of the total energy. urban transport is the source of about 25% of carbon dioxide emissions and about 70% of all emissions in urban areas. it is also important that about 50% of urban journeys are less than 5 kilometres. in the light of the impact of carbon dioxide emissions on climate change and the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, i agree that a different approach to transport policies in cities across the eu is urgently needed. the report encourages authorities in the member states to develop sustainable urban mobility plans that prioritise low-emission modes of transport, including electric and alternative fuel vehicles. i agree that preventive measures are needed to improve urban air quality in accordance with the precautionary principle and the principle of proportionality and that this requires an integrated approach. as urban sustainable mobility plans are essential to achieving the eu's targets on carbon dioxide emissions, noise, air pollution and reducing road accidents, i voted in favour of the report in plenary.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on sustainable urban mobility because i believe there is still a lot of room for improvement in this area. it is important to take a step forward to start implementing radical changes and innovations in urban transport in cities. public transport needs to be upgraded and made more attractive, accessible and efficient for citizens. in addition, the use of bicycles should be encouraged, following the example of the nordic countries, as this also indirectly contributes to better human health in the final stage.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on sustainable urban mobility because i agree with the principle that mobility should be a right for all citizens. it is very important to address topics such as urban mobility by making it more sustainable, safe and secure, giving space and infrastructure back to all citizens and improving accessibility, improving the environment, quality of life and health, saving energy and protecting the climate, making innovation the core of research policy aimed at smart mobility approaches, supporting innovations in the area of sustainable freight transport, minimising external costs and making better-quality investment, and integrating networks of efficient mobility systems and fostering cooperation. in the context of the crisis that has hit the european union, too many citizens are devoting a significant share of their time and income to transport, to which some citizens have no possibility of access whatsoever. in order to foster improvements in this regard, member states need to take active steps to bring about a modal shift from road to inland waterway and rail as a matter of urgency, attaching particular importance to inter-modality, bringing together walking, cycling and public transport.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on sustainable urban mobility (2014/2242 ((ini)) because i believe that long-term plans for sustainable urban mobility are an important means of providing adequate and safe mobility solutions for all citizens. investing in sustainable public transport not only solves urban mobility problems, but also has other positive effects on reducing co2 emissions, noise, air pollution and road accidents.
question asked by raising the blue card. thank you very much, mr. bentsen, for accepting a question. i'd say, "i agree with everything you've said". however, it seems to me that we are still far from the european union, that the energy vulnerability of europe, which should be a unifying force, divides the european countries or member states. do you think it would be better to build a community, an energy community, rather than a european union? instead of the concept of the energy union, are we building the concept of the energy community?
on the energy union and on the transfer of electricity, which is the subject of these two reports, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs, the commissioner and all those who have made great progress in paris on the environmental objectives. in the context of these two reports, i would like to support in particular the area of providing additional funds for acer, the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators. i have visited this agency, which is located in ljubljana, and i know what opportunities and benefits european consumers would have if they were provided with the right working conditions, because with good regulation alone we can reduce energy prices. i support the part of the report that talks about more renewable energy in south-eastern europe, in the balkans, but also about countries getting their own energy mix, so that they can also avoid energy poverty, which means that people cannot pay for electricity because of low incomes, high energy prices or poor quality buildings. it is the duty of the states to do this themselves.
congratulations to the polish women who are becoming a distinct brand, like polish handloom weavers, similar to slovenian ones. i would like to congratulate you and your colleagues, who have produced a demanding document in which you tackle the difficult issue of counterfeiting on the one hand, and on the other hand, the issue of competitiveness, innovation and at the same time simplification of procedures, which is sometimes very difficult to achieve, because on the one hand you are hunting down someone who is breaking the law, and on the other hand you are simplifying procedures. the key to this legislation is also that, by reducing the price and improving access for smes, you have listened to those who have been the key drivers of development in europe, namely smes. i hope that this will be a unified report, which i see has also been adopted unanimously, and a good brand for the european parliament and for europe as a whole.
unfortunately, we have had to focus more recently on preventing terrorism and its consequences, rather than on positive issues such as how to secure more jobs and how to offer a better future to our young people. when an attack happens, we're all shocked. we hope that the measures we are taking will be effective and that we can prevent attacks, but the reality is different. they are victims. and anyone who survives a terrorist attack and their loved ones are marked for life. it is very important to be aware of this, and that is why we must do everything possible - first to prevent attacks from happening, and if they do happen, then to go a step further and minimize the consequences, offering all the help, together with all the organizations, both financial, legal and psychological for the victims and their relatives.
the 20th century was marked by a whole series of totalitarian systems. europe, where there was a huge number of victims, and many of them were not simply recognized as victims. the second half of the 20th century was marked by political groups which, in a special way - in spain and in ireland, italy and greece - fought their own political battles and left behind them a multitude of victims. and now we are faced with mass terrorism, where practically no one knows when, where, and how it will strike, terrorism that goes against the social order, goes against the social order and the policies of individual countries, and therefore leaves behind a whole range of victims. i support what my colleague has prepared today. it is a proposal to draw up a directive to deal with the victims of terrorism and to prevent the causes of terrorism.
the debate on genetically modified organisms is highly anticipated, because as we can see, there is no consensus in the scientific community and there are different opinions on the effects of genetically modified organisms. i am one of those who are committed to the precautionary principle in relation to gmos, and i think it is completely unnecessary to rush through this procedure, because i think we are at a delicate moment when institutions should have a certain respect for each other, and above all we must respect the people who are largely against the use of gmos in europe. and i also wonder very much, personally, if we really need to have these gm maize seeds that are resistant to glyphosate and glyphosate. if you ask me, it's very difficult to get enough soybeans, because we know that most soybeans are grown around the world from gmos, but i'm firmly convinced that we can get enough corn without this gmo seed.
on behalf of the ppe group. microcredit is not only important for developing countries, but also in developed europe it is a key way to get businesses started. microfinance also makes a significant contribution to the europe 2020 strategy and the progress financial instrument is crucial for the part of our economy that has been most affected by the situation we are living in. i would like to thank my colleague sven for his good and critical assessment of the implementation of the progress programme and for the clear guidelines he has given in his report for the future implementation of this programme. i think it is very important that we think carefully and clearly define who are micro-enterprises and what is micro-financing. the most difficult problem is that micro-enterprises are very vulnerable and not smes. we need to separate these things so we know where we are going to put the money from progress. and one last thing. it is very important to me that micro-enterprises also have a place in the european fund for strategic investments. why would you do that? because 85% of new jobs are created in micro-enterprises.
in writing. ‒ international cooperation in the field of security and the exchange of information between the eu and third countries is of paramount importance. as a member of the schengen area, switzerland plays a special role in these relations and i therefore support the conclusion of an agreement between the eu and the swiss confederation on the modalities of its participation in the european asylum support office. i am confident that this will further strengthen the already excellent cooperation on home affairs between the eu and switzerland.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the swiss federation on the modalities of its participation in the european asylum support office. in recent months, we have been facing a high migration flow, and agencies directly involved in responding to migration pressures need both financial assistance and assistance from member states and non-members. i support any agreement and initiative that goes in the direction of increasing the efficiency and productivity of the agencies: in addition to the european asylum support office, i am thinking of frontex and europol.
in writing. ‒ i supported the agreement with the swiss confederation on the details of its cooperation with the european asylum support office. switzerland has offered to cooperate voluntarily in the relocation of refugees. it is already working informally on similar european union activities. the agreement will formalize this cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the arrangement between the european union and the swiss confederation on the modalities of its participation in the european asylum support office, because i believe it is important to support the participation of non-eu countries in easo and increase cooperation, especially on issues that are as important as asylum is.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament legislative resolution on the council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the swiss confederation on the modalities of its participation in the european asylum support office, as it will finally formally confirm switzerland's already active participation in easo activities.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposed visa waiver decision as it gives effect to the agreement signed in may between the eu and the dominican republic on visa-free travel for citizens of both communities. such arrangements will apply to journeys of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the only exception will be travel for the purpose of performing paid work, for which a work visa will still be required. this will also strengthen cooperation between the eu and the federation of dominica at political level. we know that economic cooperation is already very good and i believe that this agreement will strengthen it, particularly in the field of tourism and investment. i agree that the abolition of the visa requirement between the two parties is an important means of bringing european and caribbean nations closer together. this agreement will also have a major impact on reducing the financial and practical costs for citizens, and i welcome it!
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the federation of dominica on the short-stay visa waiver. i support the agreement concluded between the european union and the dominican federation at the end of last year, which provides for a maximum of 90 days of visa-free travel to the territory of the dominican federation in any 180-day period. i welcome the fact that the agreement includes any purpose of visit to the country, with the exception of paid employment. the agreement adopted has a strong political note and brings about a strengthening of economic cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i supported the agreement between the european union and the dominican federation on the short-stay visa waiver. the purpose of the draft visa facilitation agreement is to conclude an agreement with the federation of dominica on the facilitation of the issuance of short-stay visas. the agreement takes into account the fact that some member states do not apply the schengen acquis in full. the agreement also provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and citizens of the federation of dominica when travelling to the territory of the other party for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons travelling for any purpose other than paid employment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i believe it is important to support this agreement that was based on the open negotiations with a view to the conclusion of the bilateral agreement between the european union and the commonwealth of dominica. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of the commonwealth of dominica when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders) travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity, and i believe this is an important step in improving relationships between countries and at the same time offering greater possibilities for mobility.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament legislative resolution on the council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the federation of dominica on the short-stay visa waiver. the specific agreement allows, inter alia, citizens of the european union and citizens of the federation of dominica to travel without a visa to the territory of the other party for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposed visa waiver decision as it gives effect to the agreement signed in may between the eu and the republic of vanuatu on visa-free travel for citizens of both communities or countries. such arrangements will apply to journeys of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the only exception will be travel for the purpose of performing paid work, for which a work visa will still be required. this will also strengthen cooperation between the eu and the republic of vanuatu at political level. we know that economic cooperation is already very good and i believe that this agreement will strengthen it, particularly in the areas of tourism and financial investment and agriculture. i agree that the abolition of the visa requirement between the two parties is an important means of bringing european and caribbean nations closer together. this agreement will also have a major impact on reducing the financial and practical costs for citizens, and i welcome it!
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the republic of vanuatu on the short-stay visa waiver. i support the conclusion of an agreement that provides for a maximum of 90 days visa-free travel to the territory of the republic of vanuatu in any 180-day period and includes any visit other than paid work. the agreement will strengthen political, economic, cultural and tourist ties. the agreement will also help to strengthen cooperation between the european union and the african, caribbean and pacific countries.
in writing. ‒ i supported the agreement between the european union and the republic of vanuatu on the short-stay visa waiver. the purpose of the draft visa facilitation agreement is to conclude an agreement with the republic of vanuatu on the facilitation of the issuance of short-stay visas. the agreement takes into account the fact that some member states do not apply the schengen acquis in full. the agreement also provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and of the republic of vanuatu when travelling to the territory of the other party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons travelling for any purpose other than paid employment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution that provides visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for citizens of the republic of vanuatu when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders) travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity. this agreement on the waiver of short-stay visas simultaneously represents the culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of vanuatu – which is politically highly significant in the context of the cotonou agreement – and is an additional way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament legislative resolution on the council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the republic of vanuatu on the short-stay visa waiver, as the signed agreement will allow citizens of the european union and citizens of the republic of vanuatu to travel without a visa to the territory of the other party for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. i also believe that the agreement will have a positive impact in particular on investment and the development of the tourism sector.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposed visa waiver decision as it gives effect to the agreement signed in may between the eu and the republic of trinidad and tobago on visa-free travel for citizens of both communities or countries. such arrangements will apply to journeys of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the only exception will be travel for the purpose of performing paid work, for which a work visa will still be required. this will also strengthen cooperation between the eu and the republic of trinidad and tobago at political level. we know that economic cooperation is already very good and i believe that this agreement will strengthen it, particularly in the areas of tourism and financial investment and agriculture. in addition, trinidad and tobago can also become a key partner in the field of security, in particular in the fight against drug trafficking and human trafficking. i agree that the abolition of the visa requirement between the two parties is an important means of bringing european and caribbean nations closer together. this agreement will also have a major impact on reducing the financial and practical costs for citizens, and i welcome it!
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the republic of trinidad and tobago on the short-stay visa waiver. i support the abolition of the visa requirement between the eu and the republic of trinidad and tobago for all types of purposes (tourist, cultural or business visit) except for paid employment. as the republic of trinidad and tobago is an economically successful country and as such attractive for foreign direct investment, i believe that the european union will gain enormously from the conclusion of the agreement. the agreement will make it easier for entrepreneurs to invest in this country and to do business.
in writing. ‒ i supported the agreement between the european union and the republic of trinidad and tobago on the short-stay visa waiver. the purpose of the draft visa facilitation agreement is to conclude an agreement with trinidad and tobago on the facilitation of the issuance of short-stay visas. the agreement takes into account the fact that some member states do not apply the schengen acquis in full. the agreement also provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for citizens of trinidad and tobago when travelling to the territory of the other party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons travelling for any purpose other than paid employment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution that provides visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for citizens of the republic of trinidad and tobago when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders) travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity. this agreement will boost tourism and help to intensify trade and investment relations, the eu being ranked second among the trading partners of trinidad and tobago. the visa waiver will simplify travel conditions for business people and will facilitate investment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament legislative resolution on the council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the republic of trinidad and tobago on the short-stay visa waiver, because it will, inter alia, remove the visa requirement for travel and, in particular, simplify conditions for entrepreneurs and facilitate investment.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposed visa waiver decision as it gives effect to the agreement signed in may between the eu and samoa on visa-free travel for citizens of both communities or countries. such arrangements will apply to journeys of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the only exception will be travel for the purpose of performing paid work, for which a work visa will still be required. this will also strengthen cooperation between the eu and samoa at political level. we know that economic cooperation is already very good and i believe that this agreement will strengthen it, particularly in the areas of tourism and financial investment and agriculture. i agree that the abolition of the visa requirement between the two parties is an important means of bringing the peoples of europe and the pacific closer together. this agreement will also have a major impact on reducing the financial and practical costs for citizens, and i welcome it!
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and samoa on the short-stay visa waiver. trade and investment between the european union and the pacific countries is low, and the abolition of the visa requirement will increase this trade and investment and strengthen economic cooperation. in addition to increasing investment between the eu and samoa, the agreement will also achieve greater development of the tourism sector. the republic of samoa does not pose a threat in terms of illegal migration or security.
in writing. ‒ i supported the agreement between the european union and samoa on the short-stay visa waiver. the purpose of the proposed visa facilitation agreement is to conclude an agreement with samoa on the facilitation of the issuance of short-stay visas. the agreement takes into account the fact that some member states do not apply the schengen acquis in full. the agreement also provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and samoan nationals when travelling to the territory of the other party for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons travelling for any purpose other than paid employment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of providing visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for citizens of the republic of independent state of samoa when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders) travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity. currently no eu member state has a consulate in samoa, which means that at present samoan nationals must incur substantial costs in order to apply for and obtain visas abroad. the visa waiver will therefore constitute a definite advantage for travel to the european union for purposes of tourism or business.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's legislative resolution on the council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the independent state of samoa on the short-stay visa waiver, as i believe that the visa waiver will further strengthen cooperation between european and caribbean nations and will also have a positive impact on trade and the development of the tourism sector.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposed visa waiver decision as it gives effect to the agreement signed in may between the eu and grenada on visa-free travel for citizens of both communities or countries. such arrangements will apply to journeys of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the only exception will be travel for the purpose of performing paid work, for which a work visa will still be required. this will also strengthen cooperation between the eu and grenada at political level. we know that economic cooperation is already very good and i believe that this agreement will strengthen it, particularly in the field of tourism and financial investment. i am convinced that this cooperation will help to boost tourism, which is not as well developed as the neighbouring island countries. i agree that the abolition of the visa requirement between the two parties is an important means of bringing european and caribbean peoples closer together. this agreement will also have a major impact on reducing the financial and practical costs for citizens, and i welcome it!
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and grenada on the short-stay visa waiver. as a small island country, grenada faces a poorly developed tourism sector and an economy largely dependent on banana and spice exports. by abolishing the visa requirement for short stays, we will strengthen economic cooperation between businesses, increase investment and contribute to the development of tourism in the country.
in writing. ‒ i supported the agreement between the european union and grenada on the short-stay visa waiver. the purpose of the draft visa facilitation agreement is to conclude an agreement with grenada on the facilitation of the issuance of short-stay visas. the agreement takes into account the fact that some member states do not apply the schengen acquis in full. the agreement also provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and grenada when travelling to the territory of the other party for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons travelling for any purpose other than paid employment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of providing visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for citizens of grenada when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders) travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity. improving mobility options and visa waiver system will not only have a positive effect on mobility and economy, but also on other fields. grenada is a stable, democratic country, which, like the european union, defends the values and principles of democracy, good governance and respect for human rights and the rule of law. the conclusion of this agreement will make it possible to step up cooperation and intensify dialogue in many fields, including that of human rights.
in writing. ‒ i support the european parliament's legislative resolution on the council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and grenada on the short-stay visa waiver, as i believe that it will, among other things, simplify the conditions for business travel, which will have a positive impact on economic links between businesses, trade and tourism.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposed visa waiver decision as it gives effect to the agreement signed in may between the eu and east timor on visa-free travel for citizens of both communities or countries. such arrangements will apply to journeys of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the only exception will be travel for the purpose of performing paid work, for which a work visa will still be required. this will also strengthen cooperation between the eu and east timor at political level. we know that economic cooperation is already very good and i believe that this agreement will strengthen it, particularly in the field of tourism. this is a key sector for the development of the country, and strengthening cooperation is therefore of the utmost importance. i agree that the abolition of the visa requirement between the two parties is an important means of bringing the peoples of europe and the pacific closer together. this agreement will also have a major impact on reducing the financial and practical costs for citizens, and i welcome it!
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and east timor on the short-stay visa waiver. as with other pacific states, the agreement applies to east timor for all types of travel except for paid work. the agreement is an excellent opportunity to deepen economic cooperation, investment and cultural and tourist cooperation between the european union and the pacific countries. the quality of relations between the european union and east timor has improved year on year since the country's independence and i support the improvement of contacts.
in writing. ‒ i supported the agreement between the european union and east timor on the short-stay visa waiver. the purpose of the draft visa facilitation agreement is to conclude an agreement with east timor on the facilitation of the issuance of short-stay visas. the agreement takes into account the fact that some member states do not apply the schengen acquis in full. the agreement also provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for citizens of east timor when travelling to the territory of the other party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons travelling for any purpose other than paid employment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of providing visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for citizens of democratic republic of timor-leste when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders) travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity. timor-leste has undergone very rapid and praiseworthy democratic stabilisation since gaining independence. the country also entered into a partnership with the european union as soon as it became independent, since when mutual relations have been of high quality. on the subject of human rights, it may be noted that fundamental rights and freedoms are protected by the constitution. the political dialogue between the eu and timor-leste concentrates on human rights, freedom of the press and gender equality, particularly as regards combating domestic violence.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament legislative resolution on the council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the democratic republic of east timor on the short-stay visa waiver, as i believe that the visa waiver will provide an additional incentive for european entrepreneurs and, consequently, strengthen economic and cultural relations.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposed visa waiver decision as it gives effect to the agreement signed in may between the eu and saint lucia on visa-free travel for citizens of both communities or countries. such arrangements will apply to journeys of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the only exception will be travel for the purpose of performing paid work, for which a work visa will still be required. this will also strengthen cooperation between the eu and saint lucia at political level. we know that economic cooperation is already very good and i believe that this agreement will strengthen it, particularly in the areas of tourism and agriculture, which are relatively well developed in saint lucia. i am confident that this cooperation will help to boost tourism, which, unlike the neighbouring island countries, is not yet as well developed but is making rapid progress. i agree that the abolition of the visa requirement between the two parties is an important means of bringing european and caribbean nations closer together. this agreement will also have a major impact on reducing the financial and practical costs for citizens, and i welcome it!
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and saint lucia on the short-stay visa waiver. the conclusion of the agreement will help both saint lucia, which has a small economy, and the member states, as this agreement provides an excellent opportunity to improve economic cooperation between companies, increase investment and develop tourism. in 2010, saint lucia demonstrated a serious intention to strengthen respect for human rights by adopting legislation on gender equality.
in writing. ‒ i supported the agreement between the european union and saint lucia on the short-stay visa waiver. the purpose of the draft visa facilitation agreement is to conclude an agreement with saint lucia on the facilitation of the issuance of short-stay visas. the agreement takes into account the fact that some member states do not apply the schengen acquis in full. the agreement also provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and citizens of saint lucia when travelling to the territory of the other party for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons travelling for any purpose other than paid employment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of providing visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for citizens of saint lucia when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders) travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity. saint lucia is a young country, with limited resources and a small population, which has nonetheless succeeded in attaining or even exceeding some of the millennium development goals, thereby attesting to its commitment to fundamental rights. although its economy is relatively small compared with that of other caribbean countries and is mainly based on farming, and despite its vulnerability to external shocks, saint lucia is seeking to create an environment favourable to investment and development of the private sector. i believe this agreement represents the culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and saint lucia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament legislative resolution on the council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and saint lucia on the short-stay visa waiver, as i support the efforts to deepen relations between the european union and saint lucia, which will encourage investment and trade.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposed visa waiver decision as it gives effect to the agreement signed in may between the eu and saint vincent and the grenadines on visa-free travel for citizens of both communities or countries. such arrangements will apply to journeys of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the only exception will be travel for the purpose of performing paid work, for which a work visa will still be required. this will also strengthen cooperation between the eu and saint vincent and the grenadines at political level. natural disasters in recent years have severely weakened the economy of this country, whose main export product is bananas. therefore, any possibility to facilitate business is important. economic cooperation between the partners is already good and i believe that this agreement will strengthen it further. i agree that the abolition of the visa requirement between the two parties is an important means of bringing european and caribbean nations closer together. this agreement will also have a major impact on reducing the financial and practical costs for citizens, and i welcome it!
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and saint vincent and the grenadines on the short-stay visa waiver. saint vincent and the grenadines has suffered from natural disasters in the past, in particular in the area of the deterioration of export conditions for bananas, which are the most important agricultural product. in recent years, the economic situation has improved and i believe that the abolition of the short-stay visa requirement will only improve this. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's external action programmes, including the implementation of the eu's external action programmes.
in writing. ‒ i supported the agreement between the european union and saint vincent and the grenadines on the short-stay visa waiver. the purpose of the draft visa facilitation agreement is to conclude an agreement with saint vincent and the grenadines on the facilitation of the issuance of short-stay visas. the agreement takes into account the fact that some member states do not apply the schengen acquis in full. the agreement also provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for citizens of saint vincent and the grenadines when travelling to the territory of the other party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons travelling for any purpose other than paid employment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of providing visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of saint vincent and the grenadines when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders) travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity. i acknowledge that in the economic sphere, saint vincent and the grenadines has gone through a difficult period, marked in particular by natural disasters and a deterioration of the terms under which its main agricultural product, the banana, is exported. these facts have acted as a brake on the country’s economic recovery and have seriously damaged its tourism. but due to the positive socioeconomic progress that saint vincent and the grenadines has achieved in recent years, this agreement is highly significant.
in writing. ‒ i support the european parliament legislative resolution on the council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and saint vincent and the grenadines on the short-stay visa waiver, as i believe that it will help to develop the economy of saint vincent and the grenadines and facilitate investment opportunities for european union countries in these two countries.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposed visa waiver decision as it gives effect to the agreement signed in may between the eu and the uae on visa-free travel for citizens of both communities or countries. such arrangements will apply to journeys of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the only exception will be travel for the purpose of performing paid work, for which a work visa will still be required. this will also strengthen eu-uae cooperation at political level. we know that economic cooperation is already very good. many europeans already live and work in the uae, and some 1.6 million people travel there annually as tourists. tourism in the uae is very highly developed and, in my opinion, will be further developed by the abolition of visas. i agree that the abolition of the visa requirement between the two parties is an important means of bringing the peoples of europe and the arabian peninsula closer together. this agreement will also have a major impact on reducing the financial and practical costs for citizens, and i welcome it!
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the united arab emirates on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement, which is the result of deepened relations between the eu and the uae, will mainly improve tourist travel for citizens. in particular, many nationals of member states travel to the uae, and uae nationals travel to the european union. the short-stay visa waiver also provides an opportunity to improve trade between the eu and the uae, which is already at a high level.
in writing. ‒ i supported the agreement between the european union and the united arab emirates on the short-stay visa waiver. the purpose of the draft visa facilitation agreement is to conclude an agreement with the united arab emirates on the facilitation of the issuance of short-stay visas. the agreement takes into account the fact that some member states do not apply the schengen acquis in full. the agreement also provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and citizens of the united arab emirates when travelling to the territory of the other party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons travelling for any purpose other than paid employment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of providing visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for citizens of the uae when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders) travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity. i believe that this agreement on the waiver of short-stay visas represents a culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and the united arab emirates and is an additional way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. because of the fact that more than 150 000 european nationals live in the united arab emirates, the vast majority of whom have seized opportunities to engage in economic activities, and that some 1.6 million europeans visit the united arab emirates each year and that in 2014, around 230 000 emiratis travelled to europe, mainly for purposes of business or luxury tourism, this agreement is necessary and therefore i supported it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament legislative resolution on the council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the united arab emirates on the short-stay visa waiver, as i believe that the agreement will further strengthen trust in bilateral relations and, inter alia, strengthen the partnership to combat terrorism, trafficking in human beings and climate change.
in writing. ‒ eurojust is a body whose task is to improve the efficiency of national authorities responsible for investigation and prosecution. it also helps to tackle more serious forms of cross-border and organised crime and to ensure the swift and effective prosecution of offenders. in particular, the exchange of information between competent authorities enables eurojust to conclude memoranda of understanding. the report concerns the confirmation of the conclusion of a memorandum of understanding between the office for coordination in the internal market (ocim) and eurojust, which aims to foster their cooperation. the memorandum provides, inter alia, that the exchange of information or experience does not cover the transfer of operational data, including data relating to a specific or identifiable person. i agree that such an approach to the protection of personal data is appropriate, but i remain concerned about the actual implementation of this provision in practice. the memorandum also contains an unusual provision, which refers to, for example, a serious non-compliance with the provisions of the memorandum of understanding or where the parties believe that this might occur in the future. in such a case, either party shall have the option of suspending the execution of the memorandum. as i do not agree with all the provisions of the memorandum and consider that they could jeopardise coordination and cooperation between eurojust and the olaf, i abstained from voting on the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the draft council decision approving the conclusion by eurojust of a memorandum of understanding between the office for harmonization in the internal market and eurojust. eurojust may conclude agreements with institutions, bodies or agencies and these agreements shall relate to the exchange of information, including personal data, and to the secondment of officials to eurojust. i welcome article 3 (5) of the memorandum, which states that the exchange of information or experience shall not include the transfer of operational data, including data relating to a specific or identifiable person. i support the report because it will contribute to a better and more efficient functioning of both bodies.
in writing. ‒ i supported the memorandum of understanding between the office for internal market coordination and eurojust. the purpose of the memorandum is to foster cooperation between eurojust and the unodc in accordance with their respective mandates. it appears that eurojust and the olaf have decided to sign a memorandum of understanding because they are willing to develop a strategic cooperation that could help them to achieve their objectives. it can be concluded that eurojust and the olaf agree that the conditions of the memorandum contribute to the better fulfilment of their tasks. it follows that the memorandum in its present form is in the common interest of eurojust and the olaf and should also be approved by the council as such.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe it is important to highlight the purpose of the memorandum of understanding (mou) to foster cooperation between eurojust and ohim in compliance with their respective mandates. this cooperation is extremely important in the everyday work of these institutions and therefore as much as possible needs to be done in order to ensure even greater efficiency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a european parliament resolution on the memorandum of understanding between the office for harmonization in the internal market and eurojust, because i support the strategic cooperation between eurojust and ohim. in accordance with specific implementing provisions, they will be more effective in achieving their objectives than those set out in their mandate.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council regulation amending the regulation on the methods and procedures for making available traditional own resources and own resources accruing from vat and gni and on measures to provide cash. the updated existing financial business model, by introducing the rules proposed in this proposal, raises the level of quality and clarity of communication between the european commission and the member states in terms of the financial commitments of both parties. the report also contains practical arrangements for the allocation of own resources and stresses the need to ensure timely payments to beneficiaries from the union budget.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the modalities and procedures for making available traditional own resources from vat and gni headings and the measures to provide cash. the council regulation on the modalities and procedures for making available own resources provided by member states is part of the new own resources legislative package which will enter into force at the beginning of 2016. it's largely a technical regulation. there are several reasons for this revision, in particular the need to consider a new procedure for the annual adjustment of vat in this regulation. the aim of the act is to increase transparency and to improve parliament's access to information.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe it is important to recognise this topic and acknowledge that the provision and adjustment of member states’ contributions to the european union budget should not be subject to political bargaining but should be a technical process to meet cash requirements. there is also a need for efficient rules on how member states make their timely contributions to the european union budget available, to allow the commission to effectively manage its treasury. i also support the commission proposal that, in order to prevent any losses for the european union budget, each member state ensures that the amounts it has credited to the own resources account is not reduced by any negative interest or other charges for the time it has to remain in the account.
in writing. ‒ i supported the request to waive the parliamentary immunity of georgios kirkos because the charges relate to the activities of the mep before his election and the procedure itself was already under way at that time.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision on the request for waiver of the immunity of georgios kyrtsos. georgios kyrtsos is accused of non-payment of part of the salary of one of his former employees, but i agreed that the alleged offence clearly has nothing to do with the office of georgios kyrtsos as a member of the european parliament but is rather connected to his former position as manager of two newspaper firms.
in writing. ‒ i supported the request to waive the parliamentary immunity of stelios kuloglu, as the charges relate to the activities of an mep before his election.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision on the request for waiver of the immunity of stelios kouloglou who is accused of libel and defamation of prison staff in patras. i believe that the alleged offence clearly has nothing to do with the office of stelios kouloglou as a member of the european parliament but is rather connected to his former position as a television reporter.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposed report on the use of the funds for adaptation to globalisation. this is the 17th application to use the global fund from the eu budget for 2015. i am pleased that finland is allocating a good eur 2.6 million from this fund to help those employed in the finnish information and communication sector. this was mainly due to the consequences of the layoffs of nokia employees. former telecommunications giant found itself in deep trouble years ago. the development and design of nokia's mobile phone operating systems employed thousands of people in finland, mainly in the oulu region, and then these jobs were relocated to countries outside europe. the funds of the fund will be used to help workers made redundant. they will be offered mentoring measures, employment and business services, training, wage subsidies, travel, accommodation and relocation allowances. i am also pleased that the funds will also be used to help start-ups and to promote entrepreneurship. i hope, however, that in the future there will be as few such cases as possible.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund: the role of finland - fi/computer programming. globalization brings many benefits, but it also brings many pitfalls. in the information and communication sector, the distribution of employment has been moving to the detriment of the european union in recent years at the expense of other economies, and in finland, employment in this sector is declining by around 3% each year. the redundancies have mainly affected a region where this sector was in the past the main supporting pillar of the economy. i support the allocation of a financial contribution of eur 2 623 200 to help the workers made redundant as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ report on the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund: i supported the role of finland egf/2015/005 as the european globalisation adjustment fund is intended to support workers made redundant by major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, by the ongoing global financial and economic crisis or by new global financial and economic crises. the fund also applies to self-employed persons who have left the activity for the same reasons, as well as to assist them in their reintegration into the labour market. this was also the case with the finnish submission.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i agree with the decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of finland to support the reintegration in the labour market of workers made redundant in 69 enterprises. the conclusions showed, in accordance with all applicable provisions of the egf regulation, that the application meets the conditions for a financial contribution from the egf and the finnish authorities have provided all necessary assurances. the european globalisation adjustment fund was created in order to provide additional assistance to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns and this decision refers to the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 2 623 200 from the egf for finland. it concerns 1 200 out of 1 603 workers made redundant.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution because it is an extremely demanding and important document, which highlights the difficult field of counterfeiting and copyright infringement on the one hand, and on the other hand, the establishment of competitiveness, innovation and at the same time simplification of procedures. the latter is often very difficult to achieve, as it involves both tracing and punishing offenders and simplifying procedures. as one of the key issues in this legislation, i would highlight the simplification and the reduction of costs of procedures, thereby improving access for small and medium-sized enterprises, which have been the driving force of the european economy. it's a good thing we listened to them. i also hope that this resolution will become a good brand for the european parliament and for europe as a whole.
in writing. ‒ in 2013, the commission proposed a new package of measures on trade marks. the reform is intended to upgrade and rationalise existing legislation, ensuring that trade mark registration systems across the eu are made more accessible and efficient for businesses. this would reduce the complexity of the procedure, reduce costs and improve the speed of the procedure. this would make the registration process more predictable and would also provide greater legal certainty. however, i believe that there is a high risk that the new package of measures on brands will jeopardise the flow of legal medicines across borders. the most controversial provisions of the draft regulation and directive, which aim to combat counterfeit products, seem to me to be those which are most controversial. i believe that ensuring consumer protection is paramount and that brands should not be used as a barrier to the smooth transit of generic medicines across the eu to developing countries. international non-proprietary names (inn) are particularly important here, such as the globally recognised generic names for active substances in pharmaceutical preparations. i believe that the area is not yet properly regulated and that the new package of measures on trade marks needs to be corrected. in view of the above, i supported the amendment in the plenary requesting the recommendation to be rejected.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the community trade mark report. the aim of this report is to modernise the rules on trade marks in order to facilitate registration in the european union and, in particular, to make the fight against counterfeiting more effective. in addition to the protection of trade marks at national level, the european union offers all citizens and legal persons of the member states the possibility of protecting a community trade mark. a trade mark is a community trade mark of 28 member states and is valid in the european union as a whole and its scope cannot be geographically limited to certain member states. i support this report with amendments which help to adapt terminology and reduce legal uncertainty and i believe that there is a need to continue informing citizens about the possibilities open to them and the benefits of registering a community trade mark.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the eu trade mark reports recommendation for second reading as the most exposed issue of goods in transit remains open and unresolved. this is precisely why the els political group did not support the proposal.
in writing. ‒ i also supported the proposed recommendation, as it is an extremely demanding and important document, which highlights the difficult area of counterfeiting or copyright infringement on the one hand, and on the other hand, the establishment of competitiveness, innovation and at the same time simplification of procedures. the latter is often very difficult to achieve, as it involves both tracing and punishing offenders and simplifying procedures. as one of the key issues in this legislation, i would highlight the simplification and the reduction of costs of procedures, thereby improving access for small and medium-sized enterprises, which have been the driving force of the european economy. it's a good thing we listened to them. i also hope that this report will become a good brand for the european parliament and for europe as a whole.
in writing. ‒ in 2013, the commission prepared a new package of measures reforming the trade mark legislation. the reform of this area was motivated mainly by the desire to clarify the rights conferred by the registration of a trade mark and to define the limits of those rights. the new package also includes a reduction in trade mark fees covering all 28 member states, provides for improved, more efficient and harmonised registration procedures and advocates enhanced protection against counterfeiting, in particular with regard to goods in transit through the eu. the latter is a worrying problem, as this provision raises the risk of jeopardising the flow of legal medicines across the eu to developing countries. the obstacle to the smooth transit of generic medicinal products could be, in particular, the international non-proprietary name (inn), which is the official non-proprietary or generic name of a pharmaceutical substance, as approved by the world health organisation (who). ensuring consumer protection is of the utmost importance in this area, and i believe that this could be seriously jeopardised by a new set of measures relating to trade marks. in view of the lack of adequate regulation of the field and the urgent corrections in the reformed package of measures on trade marks, i voted in plenary to adopt an amendment rejecting the recommendation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to trade marks. the aim of this proposal is to make the registration of trade marks in the european union more accessible and efficient. this needs to be done by increasing legal certainty, clarifying provisions and establishing better cooperation between the office for harmonization in the internal market and national offices. clear labelling of products with all the necessary specifications geographical origin, production methods and traditional characteristics ensures a higher level of protection of consumers' rights.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the reports on the member states' legislation on trade marks (review), as the most exposed issue of goods in transit remains open and unclear. this is precisely why the els political group did not support the proposal.
in writing. ‒ i also support the proposed recommendation on changes to the fisheries control system in the sea. the amendments are the result of recommendations adopted by the atlantic fisheries commission and have become binding on the parties to that commission, including the eu. the amendments relate to the measures to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, which entered into force on 1 july 2015, and to the measures relating to vessels engaged in transhipment activities. the latter will be obliged to report the port of unloading at the time of loading of the cargo, whether this takes place in a port within or outside the convention area. the adaptation of the relevant eu legislation is necessary as the date of 1 july 2015 is already overdue and i therefore agree with the rapporteur that delaying the amendment procedure would be pointless.
in writing. ‒ the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the north-east atlantic fisheries aims to ensure the long-term conservation and optimum exploitation of the north-east atlantic fisheries resources, while ensuring sustainable, environmental and social benefits. the north east atlantic fisheries commission (neafc) is the body responsible for ensuring the application of the above-mentioned convention and may, to this end, issue recommendations and measures relating to fisheries control and enforcement. from 2012 to 2015, neafc adopted several reports which were supported by the eu and it is in its interest to incorporate these recommendations into eu law. the report proposes to amend regulation (eu) no 1236/2010 to bring it into line with the control system of the fao (code of conduct for responsible fisheries) agreement. coordination shall relate in particular to measures concerning the national port responsibilities and the prevention, restriction and elimination of illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. as the measures contained in these amendments will ensure better long-term conservation and optimum exploitation of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic area, i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a system of control and enforcement applicable in the area covered by the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the north-east atlantic fisheries. the objective of the regulation is to ensure the long-term conservation and optimum use of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic area and to provide sustainable environmental and social benefits. the measures will ensure better long-term conservation of the north-east atlantic area. i voted in favour of this legislative resolution because the proposed amendment to regulation 1236/2010 is necessary for the efficient management of fisheries resources in the north atlantic, which are essential for better cooperation between authorities and fishermen.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the control and enforcement system applicable to the north-east atlantic fisheries, as the amendments concern the harmonisation of the control system of the fao agreement, with a view to preventing, limiting and eliminating illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. the measures resulting from these amendments will ensure better long-term conservation and optimum exploitation of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic area, leading to sustainable results that are environmentally and socially compatible.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i support the convention’s aim of ensuring the long-term conservation and optimum utilisation of the fishery resources of the north-east atlantic area, providing sustainable environmental and social benefits. the main amendment to regulation (eu) no 1236/2010 concerns alignment with the fao agreement’s control system on measures pertaining to port state competencies in order to prevent, deter and eliminate iuu fishing. the measures provided by this amendment will ensure better long-term conservation and optimum utilisation of fishery resources in the north-east atlantic area, bringing lasting results from the environmental and social point of view.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1236/2010 of the european parliament and of the council on the control and enforcement system applicable in the convention area of the future multilateral cooperation in the north-east atlantic fisheries (com(2015) 0121c8-0076/20152015/0063 ((cod)) as i believe that the measures will ensure better long-term conservation and optimum exploitation of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic area, leading to sustainable results that are compatible with environmental and social aspects.
in writing. ‒ i also supported the report on the termination of the exceptional trade measures for bih. the latter has not yet adapted the interim agreement in terms of taking into account the preferential traditional trade between those countries under the cefta agreement linking both countries before 1 july 2013 since july 2013, when croatia joined the eu. bih is also the only country in the western balkans that has not yet adopted the eu methodology for amending trade agreements. and this despite three rounds of intensive negotiations. i therefore support the commission's and the rapporteur's position that this deadlock does not automatically extend the autonomous trade measures for bih, but rather freezes their implementation until the entry into force of the eu-bih trade concession adjustment agreement. it must be acceptable to both the eu member states and the cefta countries, and of course to bih. eu integration has stabilised the balkan region, and inter-trade measures have played a key role in this. i therefore sincerely hope that bih will also embark on the path of integration, including by adapting its trade practices to the system in force in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the council regulation introducing exceptional trade measures for countries and territories participating in or linked to the european union's stabilisation and association process and suspending its application to bosnia and herzegovina. i support the suspension of the application of the specific trade measures in respect of bosnia and herzegovina due to the fact that bosnia and herzegovina needs to harmonise the calculation methodology. the efforts of bosnia and herzegovina to reform and bring its legislation into line with european legislation must be identical in all areas. i hope that this will encourage the authorities in bosnia and herzegovina to accept the adjustments to the trade concessions granted under the interim agreement to take account of the preferential traditional trade between croatia and bosnia and herzegovina under the central european free trade agreement (cefta).
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the suspension of the exceptional trade measures for bosnia and herzegovina, as it is imperative that bosnia and herzegovina also take decisions on the adjustment of trade concessions granted under the interim agreement on trade and trade-related matters with the eu following the accession of croatia. it should do so as soon as possible, otherwise the preferential arrangements for bosnia and herzegovina could be suspended as from 1 january 2016.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the suspension of exceptional trade measures to bosnia and herzegovina and of the position of the european parliament in this matter. with this decision we addressed the topics of: 1) prolongation of the current preferences until the end of 2020, where the aim of the prolongation is to give the beneficiary countries additional time to align the preferences. we introduced the so-called ‘human rights clause’ in the atm regulation that allows for a suspension of preferences in case of serious and systematic violations of fundamental principles of human rights, democracy and the rule of law by any of the beneficiary countries. and we address the possible suspension of atms for bosnia and herzegovina from 1 january 2016. i believe this was necessary because after three rounds of negotiations with bosnia and herzegovina, no agreement could be reached. as a result of this stalemate and the damage to eu commercial interests, the commission proposes that a prolongation of atms to bosnia and herzegovina would not be automatic, but should depend on bosnia and herzegovina accepting the eu methodology regarding the adaptation of the interim agreement.
in writing. ‒ in the spirit of the current fight against terrorism and other serious crimes, i support the proposed report on deepening cooperation between the eu and the uae in this area. the proposal specifically addresses the strengthening of strategic cooperation between europol and the uae. this will include, in particular, the exchange of expertise, the results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures and methods of crime prevention, and training and support in individual criminal investigations. the agreement excludes the exchange of personal data. the uae is becoming a major hub for economic and financial crime, and cooperation in the exchange of information is therefore of particular importance. the eu has a long history of providing a safe haven for financial and money laundering criminals, many of whom are also eu nationals, and there is a need to strengthen surveillance and information gathering. i believe that the said agreement will help and strengthen the fight against financial fraud and will contribute to improving international cooperation in the field of financial investigations and other relevant criminal matters.
in writing. ‒ in accordance with the current council decision on europol (2009/371/jha), international cooperation agreements with third countries or international organisations may be concluded, after approval by the council, after consultation of the european parliament. such agreements may include the exchange of operational, strategic, technical or confidential information. this report concerns the proposed approval of the strategic cooperation agreement between europol and the united arab emirates (uae). there are clear operational needs for this cooperation, as europol considers the uae to be increasingly important in the fight against organised crime. the uae is becoming an increasingly important hub for economic and financial crime, reinvesting the proceeds of crime such as vat fraud, embezzlement and money laundering. i have no doubt that the need for cooperation is justified, but i do have some reservations about the level of protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms in the country with which this agreement is to be concluded. however, i also dispute the report on procedural grounds. i believe that the approval of this agreement should wait until the entry into force of the new europol regulation (2013/0091 (cod)), which also substantially renews the agreements between third countries and international organisations and europol. because of what you've described, i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion by europol of the agreement on strategic cooperation in the fight against serious crime and terrorism between the united arab emirates and the european police office (europol). the uae is becoming increasingly important in the fight against organised crime and therefore cooperation between the european union and the uae in the fight against organised crime is of great importance. the conclusion of this agreement will strengthen and enhance international cooperation in the field of financial investigations and other relevant criminal matters. i support the council decision to conclude a strategic cooperation agreement with europol and the united arab emirates, as i believe that, given the cross-border nature of many criminal activities and organised crime groups, we need to establish enhanced regional and international cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on strategic cooperation in the fight against serious crime and terrorism between the uae and europol, as it will help to combat financial fraud, strengthen it and contribute to improving international cooperation in the field of financial investigations and other relevant criminal matters. international cooperation agreements with third countries or international organisations may be concluded only after their approval by the council, after consulting the european parliament. such agreements may concern the exchange of operational, strategic, technical or confidential information. the operational cooperation agreement shall also cover the exchange of personal data. this proposal concerns the proposed approval of a strategic cooperation agreement between europol and the united arab emirates. such strategic cooperation excludes the exchange of personal data and therefore the issue of personal data protection is not relevant in this case. the information exchanged could include expertise, general situation reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures and methods of crime prevention, training activities and advice and support in individual criminal investigations.
in writing. ‒ i supported the very comprehensive report on the transition to the european energy union that was proposed, and i also congratulate the rapporteur and the commissioner on the outstanding achievement in achieving the environmental objectives of the paris climate agreement negotiations. i find the part of the report that talks about the increased use of renewable energy sources in south-east europe important, but also that the countries themselves have a duty to provide their own energy mix, thus helping to avoid energy poverty. in practice, this means that people cannot afford electricity because of low incomes, high energy prices or poor quality buildings. the task of the states is therefore to find the right balance between the different energy sources so that the final prices of electricity can still be sustainable for households and industrial customers. the eu has also been working to reduce the cost of energy by introducing appropriate regulation at european level in the form of the acer agency, based in ljubljana, slovenia. we must ensure that the latter are adequately equipped to work effectively, which brings great benefits to european citizens.
in writing. ‒ a european energy policy ensures the functioning of the energy market and the security of energy supply. it also promotes energy efficiency, energy saving, the development of renewable energy sources and the interconnection of energy networks. the emergence of a strong energy union must be based on a sustainable, forward-looking energy system. the european parliament has already called twice for binding climate and energy targets for 2030 in order to maximise energy efficiency. these requirements are also set out in the report, which contains a number of good concrete proposals. as such, i can highlight the demand for a 40% increase in energy efficiency, a limitation of the increase in the average global temperature to no more than 2 °c and the recognition of the inadequacy of hydraulic fracturing. however, it is also necessary to recognise the importance of nuclear energy, which is one of the most important in the european energy system, as it causes less co2 emissions. the final report no longer contains any aspirations to promote nuclear energy, and some key amendments (the moratorium on hydraulic fracturing, the amendment on the link with ttip) were not adopted in plenary, which is why i abstained in the vote on the report on the european energy union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european energy union. i believe that it is essential to ensure the functioning of the energy market, the security of energy supply, the promotion of energy efficiency, energy saving and progress towards renewable energy sources, and to promote the interconnection of energy networks. i welcome the call on the european commission and the member states to ensure that all legislative proposals forming the energy union are dealt with under the ordinary legislative procedure. this will allow us to participate fully in the admission process and thus also ensure effective democratic control. member states, transmission system operators, the electricity industry and all other interested parties need to cooperate. this will ensure a high level of security of energy supply for citizens and businesses.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the european energy union, as european energy policy, in accordance with article 194 tfeu, ensures the functioning of the energy market and the security of energy supply and promotes energy efficiency, energy saving, the development of renewable energy sources and the interconnection of energy networks. this is why we need to work towards an efficient energy union and achieve energy independence.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i agree that a common energy market must be the cornerstone of the energy union and that the energy union must provide eu citizens with secure, sustainable and affordable energy. renewables not only reduce import dependence, but also play a crucial role in improving air quality and creating jobs and growth. there is also a need to make the best use of existing national and cross-border energy infrastructure in order to use energy effectively and strengthen security of supply. in this very important and comprehensive document we also called on member states and the commission to seek for better interaction and coordination of national and european research programmes, especially in the fields of energy, transport, ict and construction, in order to ensure that priority is given to common challenges such as increasing energy efficiency by not focusing only on the heating sector but also on cooling, promoting small-scale renewable energies, reducing greenhouse gas emissions as well as increasing energy security and developing new renewable energy sources, and to maximise the market uptake of new technologies.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report 'towards a european energy union', as energy malnutrition is one of the eu's most fatal weaknesses. energy today divides the european political scene even more than it unites, as it is in this area that national egoisms are most pronounced. the european union needs an ambitious and strong energy union. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the energy community and its implementation in the member states. a low-carbon economy is essential for europe's future, because only so-called clean energy will free us from our dependence on russian gas and arab oil. particular emphasis should be placed on diversification of energy sources and supply routes. we need to focus on more accessible and secure energy supplies and better governance, where the european parliament also has a role to play. a fully integrated internal energy market could save consumers between eur 12 billion and eur 40 billion per year (by 2030). the 10% cross-border electricity connectivity target by 2020 is a valuable step in the right direction and member states that are not yet there and are highly isolated from the internal electricity market need to be helped to achieve this target. when the eu 'speaks with one voice' on energy and breaks its energy dependency, we will also be a more important global player in politics.
in writing. ‒ i am convinced that the report proposed is an important step towards greater energy efficiency in the eu and also towards its less dependence on external sources. i agree that a fully integrated internal electricity market would facilitate electricity trading, increase security and reduce electricity price volatility. the latter would thus benefit citizens who would pay less for their electricity consumption, rather than improving the efficiency and competitiveness of european industry and businesses in the global economy. annual savings run into billions, so we need to work hard to make the electricity market as connected as possible. in this context, i also welcome the role of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer), which can play a major role in achieving savings in this area. the agency, which is based in slovenia, has been facing a staffing and financial crisis for some time, and i therefore join the call in the report to provide acer with the necessary resources, in particular sufficient staff. only then will it be able to perform the tasks set out in the legislation with quality. acer should also be given a stronger role in the coordination of cross-border regulatory matters, with a mandatory involvement of the national regulatory authorities.
in writing. ‒ renewable energy, increased energy efficiency and a sustainable energy mix are crucial tools for a robust, secure, independent, inclusive, transparent and competitive eu energy system. electricity interconnection brings energy savings and an internal energy market that allows the free flow of energy. and that's what we get for high-quality jobs and wealth in a sustainable economy. in 2015, the commission also set out a strategy to achieve the 10% cross-border electricity connectivity target and improve the functioning of the eu's internal electricity market as part of the energy package. the report largely welcomes the 10% cross-border electricity connectivity target, but on the other hand, it points out that the target itself does not always reflect market conditions and that it was not designed on the basis of scientific evidence. the target does not describe either the quantity of electricity flowing between member states or its quality and is not considered to be appropriate for all member states. the report therefore invites the commission to open a technical discussion as soon as possible. i agree that the increase in cross-border energy will not be useful without strong interconnection of markets and transmission system operators. since the report contains concrete and meaningful comments on the achievement of the 10% cross-border electricity connectivity target and since the preparation of the electricity grid has major environmental, economic and geopolitical benefits, i supported the report in plenary.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on achieving the 10% crossborder electricity connectivity target preparing the european electricity network by 2020. the existence of an internal energy market allowing the free flow of energy and the enhancement of energy efficiency and a sustainable energy mix will contribute to a robust, secure, independent and transparent competitive eu energy system, which will create high-quality jobs and wealth in a sustainable, future-oriented economy. the 10% cross-border electricity connectivity target to be achieved by 2020 is an important step in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on preparing the european electricity network for 2020 because i believe that only through connectivity can the european union become energy independent over time. the report recognises the 10% electricity interconnection target as an important step in the right direction. it stresses that electricity interconnection is one of the key preconditions for the completion of the internal market in electricity. for those member states that have not yet reached 10%, the report says more needs to be done to help them. particular attention should be paid to projects addressing the most important gaps in the integrated electricity market in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i agree that we have to make a positive step towards achieving the 10% electricity interconnection target and improving the functioning of the internal electricity market in the eu. i acknowledge that renewable energy, increased energy efficiency and a sustainable energy mix leading to energy savings and an internal energy market that allows energy to flow freely are important means for a stable, secure, independent, inclusive, transparent and competitive energy system for the eu, which generates high-quality jobs and wealth within a future-oriented sustainable economy. in this document we addressed the target of 10% electricity interconnection, a holistic approach that needs to be applied, the role of acer, the importance of regional cooperation and a view beyond 2020. i also agree that a fully integrated internal electricity market would facilitate the electricity trading and balancing services, increase security and lower the volatility of electricity prices to the benefit of citizens and the competitiveness of europe’s industry and business in a global economy, as it is estimated that eur 12-40 billion could be saved annually by european consumers by 2030.
in writing. ‒ i support the progress financial instrument, which supports a system of micro-loans for the most financially and socially disadvantaged eu citizens. this can have a very positive impact on the local economy and help deprived people to live in dignity. progress is socially-oriented and provides access to micro-loans for micro-business start-ups, which it does not finance directly, but allows more lending to micro-loan intermediaries in the eu participating in the programme, as progress improves their creditworthiness by allowing them to refinance. it is therefore an important and effective instrument for achieving the eu's employment and social objectives. demand for micro-loans is also increasing, especially among people who cannot raise funds in the traditional banking sector, and programmes such as progress are the easiest way to raise funds. unfortunately, the instrument has not yet been implemented in all eu member states, but i hope it will be soon, as it really helps to improve the situation in the social and labour market spheres. so far, 13 252 microcredits have been granted, amounting to eur 124,6 million. i also believe that this instrument could be linked to the so-called juncker fund to achieve even greater impacts and more permanent jobs.
in writing. ‒ the microfinance facility aims to increase the availability and access to microfinance for people who have lost or are at risk of losing their jobs. it is also intended for persons who have difficulties in (re) entering the labour market and for persons at risk of social exclusion. the microfinance facility may also help vulnerable persons who are disadvantaged in accessing the conventional credit market and who wish to set up or further develop their micro-enterprises, including self-employed persons. i agree that financial instruments such as progress are extremely important in times of financial crisis. they enable the creation of new businesses, encourage new employment and ensure access to finance for the unemployed, disadvantaged people and micro-enterprises. the report identifies shortcomings that have been identified through the use of this type of financial instrument. it therefore calls on the commission to provide more publicity and information on the microfinance instrument and the different access to it. the geographical scope of the programme should be extended, microfinance intermediaries should be encouraged to implement specific strategies, etc. the report also states that the european definition of microloans should be reconsidered and adapted to the current circumstances. since microfinance can help people to escape poverty and unemployment, can give them dignity and can strengthen the cohesion of communities by increasing social inclusion and reducing social disparities, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the european progress microfinance facility. in the context of the financial crisis, the progress financial instrument is important because it allows for the creation of jobs, new businesses and provides access to finance for the unemployed, disadvantaged people and micro-enterprises. i welcome the call to member states to develop and enable the expansion of the microfinance sector in order to achieve the europe 2020 objectives, as it helps people out of poverty and unemployment, contributes to greater social inclusion and strengthens the connectivity between communities by reducing social disparities.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the implementation of the european progress microfinance facility. we live in a time when the economic and financial crisis has led to a significant increase in poverty rates and also in social exclusion. we are facing longterm unemployment and youth unemployment. microcredit is not just a problem in developing countries, but also in europe, where it is a key way of getting businesses off the ground. microfinance contributes significantly to the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives. the progress financial instrument is crucial for the part of our economy that has been most affected by the circumstances in which we live.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i agree that microloans work in europe, as well as in developing countries. the progress microfinance facility is primarily a social policy instrument and only secondarily an economic policy instrument. it focuses on target groups whose role in the economy has previously received too little attention: (long-term) unemployed people, people on benefit, immigrants, ethnic minorities, people working in the informal economy or living in disadvantaged rural areas, and women. progress microfinance is currently available in only 22 of the 28 member states. the reasons for this incomplete coverage are the varying degrees of economic development, varying degrees of market interest and the current legislative basis in each country. i believe progress microfinance helps to provide a way (back) into the labour market, release entrepreneurial potential, acquire new skills through training and mentoring, and give people dignity by enabling them to take responsibility for their own lives.
in writing. ‒ the objectives of the common fisheries policy (cfp) include restoring and maintaining populations of harvested species above levels that allow maximum sustainable yield. this is attempted by using an ecosystem and selectivity approach. technical measures and multiannual plans were drawn up in this respect in 2009. the report notes that little progress has been made since that year, partly due to friction between the european institutions over their respective competences and partly due to the harmonisation of legislation on technical measures linked to the lisbon treaty. i welcome the report and agree that the review of technical measures should seek to improve the environmental sustainability of fisheries and marine resources in a way that is consistent with the socioeconomic sustainability of the sector. i also believe that, in order to ensure the implementation of the objectives of the cfp and to eliminate inconsistencies or duplication, future technical measures should be simplified and placed in a clearly structured legal framework. these should be based on sound scientific data provided by peer review. the new legislative framework would thus facilitate the continued use of innovative fishing gear that has been scientifically proven to increase selectivity and reduce environmental impact. i believe that the sustainability of fish stocks is a necessary condition for the future of the fishing industry, and i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the new common fisheries policy: structure of technical measures and multiannual plans. the common fisheries policy was amended in 2013 with the aim of restoring and maintaining stocks of harvested species above levels that allow maximum sustainable yield. the best way to achieve this is through technical measures and multiannual plans. the report proposes the introduction of technical measures to protect immature fish and to decide on a minimum conservation reference size taking into account scientific advice. i welcome the fact that the report proposes to include fishermen in the decision-making process, down to the last detail of technical measures.
in writing. ‒ the report on the new common fisheries policy: the structure of technical measures and multiannual plans, which i supported, is important because it is important that measures can actually be successfully implemented. to do so, they must be simple and clear, and above all, understandable to fishermen. it is also important that multiannual plans are adopted as soon as possible, ensuring that long-term measures are not governed by landing plans which should only be temporary.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text because i agree that multiannual plans are concerned with management of the principal species being fished. all of them seek to establish stock management objectives in terms of individual breeding biomass and fishing mortality. most of the eleven multi-annual plans currently drawn up are concerned with total allowable catches (tacs). however, a number of them also refer to other instruments such as technical measures, fishing effort restrictions or specific monitoring rules. i also agree that is necessary for multiannual plans to be adopted as soon as possible, thereby ensuring that long-term measures are not regulated through discard plans, which should only be provisional in nature. i think that the review of technical measures should take into account their impact in terms of biological resources conservation, the marine environment, fishing operating costs and profitability in socio-occupational terms.
on behalf of the s&d group. i listened to you very carefully and i agree with you that it is essential to strengthen security at the external borders of the european union, especially as i come from slovenia, which has been heavily burdened in recent weeks by the passage of thousands of refugees and is itself at the edge of capacity. since october, the promised 400 police officers that the union should be allocated to our country, only a poor half of them have arrived. i say this because i am concerned about how the newly created agency will actually function if it already meets with the resistance of a number of countries. i agree with you that it is essential to ensure common european border controls, but i have to raise a few concerns. first, the question of national sovereignty. what can we expect in the case of rapid intervention by newly created bodies if the individual country does not agree to this? the new european system will apparently to some extent replace frontex, which has lacked the necessary competences and capacity to help mitigate the chaos at the union's external borders. but the additional question is, who will provide the funding? it is also essential that the proposal includes parliamentary scrutiny as well as a mechanism to ensure that the functioning of these border authorities is consistent with data protection and fundamental rights. i would like to stress once again that i agree that the real response is european, including and especially at the external borders. in recent weeks, a number of european countries have temporarily introduced border controls. if this is maintained, there is a legitimate fear that the schengen system will collapse. i therefore support the european commission in all its efforts to stop undermining the foundations of freedom of movement and i call on you ahead of this week's summit to continue with a series of measures, and in particular to put pressure on european governments to implement them.
i welcome the legislative package on european borders and coastguards presented today by the european commission. i believe this is one of the key steps to resolve the migration crisis. it is also an important step in stabilising the european union. i like the metaphor of gonzales ponce, that we only want a house with a door, not without a door. the door will remain closed afterwards, but it will be closed to all who wish our home ill. with this new integrated structure, the european union is assuming direct responsibility for the security of its external borders. this is a huge change in our life together, and i'm immensely happy about it. i regret to mention greece and the syriza government, which is causing problems for the whole european union by its deliberate inefficiency in managing the flow of migrants. i regret that the slovenian government is not more efficient and that the european commission did not propose this system in the spring. i hope at least that the member states will not now make it difficult to set up a new system. if we really believe in the european project, we must also take some steps in the right direction, and the coastguard is that.
this package of measures that we heard in the presentation today is certainly a step in the right direction and, given the hesitation of recent months, it certainly raises hopes for securing the so-called external borders. i think it is important, first of all, that whatever this new agency is, it should have the resources to do so, first of all, so that we can also influence and direct the flow of refugees, so that there is really cooperation between the member states, and, above all, if this action is effective, it will also contribute to something very important: namely, that the purpose of securing the external borders will be important in order not to set internal borders. and if we can secure this external area well and effectively, without, of course, infringing human rights, then the member states that are now erecting fences, walls and barriers can also remove them.
in writing. the right to live and work in another member state is one of the fundamental freedoms of the union and a fundamental value of eu citizenship. employment mobility is a benefit offered by the union to its citizens. unfortunately, not enough people take advantage of it. working abroad brings both added cultural and professional knowledge to the individual, as well as contributing to improving the efficiency of labour markets and the eu's competitiveness. it is also important to highlight the personal aspect of risks in labour migration. the european health insurance card and the start of the harmonisation of social security systems are certainly among the successes that will have a positive impact on improving the mobility of workers. however, the issues of taxes, pension rights and unemployment benefits remain open. the commission will have to be more active in these areas. examples of good practice in promoting youth mobility are certainly the erasmus+ programme and the mutual recognition of diplomas, qualifications and academic experience. i hope that in the future we will be able to welcome more projects with such positive effects.
in writing. the free movement of workers is one of the four freedoms enjoyed by eu citizens and one of the fundamental principles of european integration. however, only a small percentage of citizens work in another member state. i'm not surprised. i am well aware of the difficult situation of slovenian border migrants working in austria. i have been alerting the european commission to this case for a long time. although the commission considers labour mobility to be crucial to the success of the european economy, the taxation of migrant workers is unregulated and this hinders the movement of labour within the eu. i would point out that the eu treaty prohibits discrimination against workers on grounds of nationality. however, slovenian migrants working in the same environment as their austrian counterparts pay much higher taxes than austrians. it is true that direct taxation is a matter for the individual member states and in the case at hand the present slovenian government bears the greatest responsibility. but the commission's slow response is not helping to solve the problem either. i therefore call on the commission to conclude its work on crossborder tax problems as soon as possible and to propose ambitious measures to protect the free movement of workers. i also welcome the commission's proposal to examine the possibility of establishing an arbitration mechanism for crossborder disputes in the field of double taxation.
it is clear to everyone that we have enormous problems because the governments are largely failing to take measures to alleviate the situation of refugees and migrants. the devil is in the details of the various proposals. the relocation of people, the return of those not eligible for international protection, identification upon entry into the union - these are ambitious proposals, but there is no action. schengen is at stake, countries are introducing enhanced border controls. it pains me to see the construction of a fence on my country's borders, the breakdown of relations between people, the growing distrust and intolerance. and all this because slovenia too was convinced that we were left to our own devices and that we would not be able to cope with the new wave of arrivals from the balkan route. we need clear commitments from the leaders at the summit this week. the western balkan countries will not be able to provide support to the refugee pressure for much longer. we're gonna need some extra financial help. we must be aware that there are still more than 2 million refugees in turkey and that there is no end in sight to the conflict in syria. we urgently need to improve the management of the union's external borders, thereby helping not only the countries on the balkan route, but also the preservation of the schengen area. and that must be our advantage, not the dangerous attempts to create a mini-schengen that will tear europe apart. freedom of movement is a symbol of our unity. my colleagues, the dignity of europe will only survive if we act in solidarity and with humanity. europe today is no longer a europe of solidarity. it's the europe of carefree. we are making history here, and it's up to us to make 2016 better. i therefore call on the european union to take full responsibility for implementing all commitments and for keeping schengen as we know it. (the speaker agreed to accept the question raised by the blue card (rule 162 (8)).
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. dear colleague it pains me as much as it pains you to see the fences on our borders. people are hurting on both sides of our border. but that's exactly what i'm warning you about. the irresponsibility of european governments, the irresponsibility of european politicians. and directly in our neighborhood, in hungary. so one more time. we can only calm things down together. with good cooperation, especially between neighbouring countries. and schengen must remain as we know it. and the fences, the wires, they have to become a thing of the past.
in writing. ‒ i also supported the proposed extension of the mandate of the president of the european banking authority (eba), on the basis of the findings of the eba board of supervisors and their proposal to extend the mandate of mr andrei enria for a further five years. mr. enria has done his job so far with great quality, he has convinced me with his work, so i have no reason not to trust him for another five years.
in writing. ‒ i voted to extend the mandate of the president of the european banking authority (eba). in september this year, the eba board of supervisors proposed to extend the mandate of the current president of the eba, mr andrei enria, who took up his duties in 2011, for a further five years. as he also successfully passed the hearing in the competent committee of the european parliament, i supported the extension of the mandate.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the extension of the mandate of the president of the european banking authority (eba) because article 48 (4) of regulation (eu) no 1093/2010 provides that the board of supervisors of the eba may, subject to the assessment provided for in that provision, extend the mandate of the president of the eba once, subject to the prior approval of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i approve the proposal for the extension of the term of office of andrea enria as chairperson of the eba by another five-year term. the european banking authority (eba) is an independent eu authority which works to ensure effective and consistent prudential regulation and supervision across the european banking sector. its overall objectives are to maintain financial stability in the eu and to safeguard the integrity, efficiency and orderly functioning of the banking sector. this authority plays an important and responsible role and after the hearing with andrea enria, the incumbent chairperson of the eba, at which he made an opening statement and then responded to questions from the members of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and after a careful evaluation, i believe the approval was justified.
in writing. ‒ i support the european parliament's decision to extend the mandate of mr enria as president of the european banking authority (eba) because mr enria has successfully answered all the questions and concerns raised by the members of the committee on economic and monetary affairs.
in writing. ‒ i also supported the proposed extension of the mandate of the president of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa), based on the findings of the eba board of supervisors and their proposal to extend the mandate of the current president of eiopa, gabriel bernardin, for a further five years. mr. bernardino has done his job so far with great quality, he has convinced me with his work, so i have no reason not to trust him for another five years.
in writing. ‒ i voted to extend the mandate of the president of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa). i support the european parliament's proposal for a decision at first reading to extend the mandate of mr bernardino for a further five years, as he has demonstrated over the years the high level of expertise required to do the job. in addition, eiopa is a relatively new body and continuity in the form of a renewed mandate will contribute to the consistent implementation and achievement of the objectives set.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the extension of the mandate of the president of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) because article 48 (4) of regulation (eu) no 1094/2010 provides that the board of supervisors of eiopa may, subject to the assessment provided for in that provision, extend the mandate of the president of eiopa once again after prior approval by the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i approve the proposal for the extension of the term of office of gabriel bernardino as chairperson of the eiopa by another five-year term. the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) was established as a consequence of the reforms to the structure of supervision of the financial sector in the european union. the reform was initiated by the european commission, following the recommendations of a committee of wise men, chaired by mr de larosière, and supported by the european council and parliament. this authority plays an important and responsible role and after the hearing with gabriel bernardino, at which he made an opening statement and then responded to questions from the members of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and after a careful evaluation, i believe the approval was justified.
in writing. ‒ as in the previous two decisions on the extension of the mandate, i also supported the proposed extension of the mandate of the president of the european securities and markets authority (esma). i was convinced of this by the findings of esma's board of supervisors and their proposal to extend the mandate of the current esma chairperson, steven maijor, for a further five years. mr. maijoor has done his job so far with great quality, so i have no reason not to trust him for another five years.
in writing. ‒ i voted to extend the mandate of the president of the european securities and markets authority (esma). in september this year, esma's board of supervisors proposed to extend the mandate of the current esma chairman, steven maijor, for a further five years. mr maijoor also successfully passed the hearing before the competent committee of the european parliament, and i therefore support the extension of the mandate.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the extension of the mandate of the president of the european securities and markets authority (esma) because article 48 (4) of regulation (eu) no 1095/2010 provides that the board of supervisors of esma may, subject to the assessment provided for in that provision, extend the mandate of the president of esma once, subject to the prior approval of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i approve the proposal for the extension of the term of office of steven maijoor as chairperson of the esma by another five-year term. esma is an independent eu authority that contributes to safeguarding the stability of the european union’s financial system by enhancing the protection of investors and promoting stable and orderly financial markets. it achieves this by: assessing risks to investors, markets and financial stability, completing a single rulebook for eu financial markets, promoting supervisory convergence and directly supervising credit rating agencies and trade repositories. this authority plays an important and responsible role and after the hearing with steven maijoor, at which he made an opening statement and then responded to questions from the members of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and after a careful evaluation, i believe the approval was justified.
in writing. ‒ under council decision 2009/934/jha adopting implementing rules governing europol's relations with partners, europol may conclude strategic or operational agreements with third countries or international organisations. europol may conclude strategic agreements only after approval by the council, after consulting the management board of europol. the operational agreements also require the council, through the europol management board, to obtain the opinion of the europol joint supervisory body in so far as the agreement relates to the exchange of personal data. those agreements aim to support and strengthen the activities of the competent authorities of the member states and their mutual cooperation in preventing and combating organised crime and other forms of serious crime. the report concerns the approval of the conclusion of an operational and strategic cooperation agreement between bosnia and herzegovina and europol, which includes, inter alia, provisions on the exchange of personal data. the report calls for the approval of the council's draft and encourages the commission to assess the provisions of the agreement, in particular the provisions on data protection, after the entry into force of the new europol regulation (2013/0091 (cod)). i agree with the latter, but i also oppose the council's draft because of concerns about the use and transfer of personal data. i believe that it would be prudent to wait for the entry into force of the new general data protection regulation before approving this agreement. i voted against the report because of what it said.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion by europol of the agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between bosnia and herzegovina and the european police office (europol). this international agreement aims to reduce the crime rate by sharing personal and classified information. the cross-border nature of many criminal activities and organised crime groups requires enhanced regional and international cooperation. this will allow for a better and more efficient response to member states' requests for police and judicial cooperation.
in writing. ‒ report on the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion of the agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between bosnia and herzegovina and the european police office (europol) by europol. i consider that closer cooperation between europol and bosnia and herzegovina is necessary and, in addition, this report also calls on the commission to assess the data protection provisions after the entry into force of the new europol regulation (2013/0091 ((cod)) and, if necessary, to make a recommendation to authorise the reopening of international negotiations on the agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour on this matter because i believe that a new agreement establishing police cooperation between europol and bosnia herzegovina to step up the joint fight against organised crime, terrorism and other forms of serious international crime is necessary. this agreement governs operational and strategic cooperation which entails exchanging information such as specialist knowledge, general situation reports and strategic analyses, but could also include the exchange of personal data and classified information and i believe this is needed in order to ensure greater safety and cooperation among countries and europol.
in writing. ‒ once again, meps supported the allocation of aid to ireland from the globalisation adjustment fund, albeit on a very small scale. the funds will also formally disband the aircraft parts industry in ireland and will be used to re-skill workers. in slovenia too, we should be more active in monitoring developments in industrial activity, as i am sure we have similar cases where adaptation to market conditions is slower than the replacement of jobs. here too, the assistance of this fund and related activities would be welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund: the role of ireland - international. i support the allocation of a financial contribution to ireland of eur 442 293 for the redundancies of 108 workers at pwa international as a result of globalisation. the funds will be used for career guidance and development, training grants from the egf, training and further education programmes, higher education programmes and temporary allowances.
‒ written i supported the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, in accordance with point 13 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management (application egf/2015/006 ie/pwa international, ireland), as i believe that the financial assistance of the european union should be more dynamic and consequently more effective in the case of additional assistance to workers. this could make a significant contribution to the faster reintegration of workers into the labour market, as the european globalisation adjustment fund was established specifically to provide additional assistance to workers in need of assistance in the event of structural changes in world trade flows. as regards the case of ireland, i consider that, in the circumstances, it is entitled to a financial contribution of eur 442 293.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a resolution because i agree with the decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of ireland. the european globalisation adjustment fund was created in order to provide additional assistance to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns and this decision refers to the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 442 293 from the egf to ireland. it concerns 108 workers made redundant in pwa international. the application was sent to the commission on 19 june 2015 and supplemented by additional information up to 14 august 2015. the commission concluded, in accordance with all applicable provisions of the egf regulation, that the application meets the conditions for a financial contribution from the egf, therefore i supported this decision.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the draft commission implementing regulation adopting the list of invasive alien species of union concern. i believe that we need more transparency in the selection of species that should be included in the list proposed by the european commission. their inclusion is not based on a standardised risk assessment and methodology but on the political will of the member states. these measures will also improve human health and the environment.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on objection under rule 106 of the rules of procedure on the list of invasive alien species, because i believe that measures must be taken in all member states to prevent the damage caused by invasive alien species. these measures could also reduce their harmful effects on the environment, as invasive alien species cause major changes in the ecosystem.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection because i believe this topic should be addressed with more caution and there is a need to ensure that the identification of invasive alien species of eu concern remains proportionate and focuses on species whose inclusion on the union list would effectively prevent, minimise or mitigate the adverse impact of those species in a cost effective manner. i also wanted to stress out that commission failed to ensure that the methodology to be applied in the risk assessments is carried out in the same way by all member states when proposing the inclusion of a species on the union list, and whereas it cannot be ensured that member states use the same type of evidence and apply the same overall standards, we called on the commission to withdraw its draft implementing regulation and to submit a new draft to the committee.
in writing. ‒ there is no consensus in the scientific community on the issue of genetically modified organisms, and it is expected that there will be a lack of consensus among meps and the general public on these issues. i myself am a proponent of the precautionary principle in the gmo sector and therefore it seems to me completely unnecessary to conduct a procedure on such a sensitive issue as the authorisation of genetically modified maize with such zeal. blaming the institutions and shifting responsibility from one to the other is also unproductive. we are at a delicate moment when the institutions should have more respect for each other and, above all, for the will of the people who are largely against the use of gmos in europe. i often ask myself, do we really need genetically modified corn seeds that are resistant to glyphosate and glyphosate. i understand that for various reasons we are not able to produce enough soya in the eu and that we have to import soya from countries that mainly use gmos. but i can't understand why we need genetically modified corn seed. i'm sure we can grow enough corn without such a seed. therefore, i supported the proposed conscientious objection.
in writing. ‒ i voted to object under rule 106 of the rules of procedure: the authorisation of genetically modified maize nk603xt25. monsanto europe s.a. has submitted an application to place on the market foods, food ingredients and feed containing nk603 x t25 maize, which confers resistance to the herbicide glyphosate and which has been classified by the international agency for research on cancer as a substance likely to be carcinogenic to humans. i support the report which considers that the implementing decision in its current version, which does not apply, authorising the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of or produced from genetically modified organisms should be suspended until a new regulation is adopted on the basis of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i supported the objection under rule 106 of the rules of procedure on the authorisation of genetically modified maize nk603xt25 as the genetically modified maize nk603xt25 is resistant to the herbicide glyphosate, which has been shown to cause cancer in humans. by objecting, we will indirectly contribute to human and animal health, environmental and consumer interests, and also ensure the effective functioning of the internal market.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this objection because although i believe the safety of our food is necessary and we need to put in place more cautious measures, in this particular case of genetically modified maize all the scientific research available indicates that there are no reasons of concern that would justify its production and sale not to be authorised.
in writing. ‒ we voted in favour of another european parliament resolution, which is a response to the luxleaks tax affair and all the past unfair tax practices that have come to light with it. in future, therefore, transparency, openness and the exchange of information will be essential. of course, we are not in any way interfering with tax sovereignty, but it is right that through mandatory public reporting it is very clear how much tax companies have paid in which country. this will also reduce the interest in profiteering, while at the same time giving tax policy makers the opportunity to see the facts and to adapt accordingly. in any event, a set of uniform rules will have to be developed for larger companies with a presence in a number of markets within the eu, at least as regards the common consolidated tax base.
in writing. ‒ aggressive tax planning has serious consequences for member states' tax revenues. as a result, they are forced to raise taxes, reduce public services, or take on additional debt. national tax legislation is the exclusive competence of the member states. they take unilateral measures to combat unfair practices, which are often ineffective. most of the problems are cross-border. small and medium-sized enterprises, which are by nature national, pay the highest price, while multinationals exploit differences in tax systems and manipulate them to gain an unfair competitive advantage. the report contains a series of recommendations to the commission to submit legislative proposals aimed at harmonising corporate tax policy. this would reduce the scope of harmful tax competition in the eu and start the implementation of the organisation for economic cooperation and development (oecd) guidelines into eu law. the report also calls on the commission to take decisive and swift action, including proposing public and mandatory reporting by member states (country by country reporting), whistleblower protection and a more comprehensive definition of tax havens, providing for countermeasures for companies that also create these tax havens. i believe that the report contains proposals for very appropriate measures which will be crucial for better coordination of member states' tax policies, which is why i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on promoting transparency, coordination and convergence in corporate tax policies. i support transparency in the area of corporate taxation and coordinated action by member states in this area. a study commissioned by the european parliament shows that the eu loses around eur 5070 billion every year by avoiding corporate tax by diverting profits alone, a very worrying figure.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report with recommendations to the commission on promoting transparency, harmonisation and convergence in corporate tax policies in the union, as i believe that a more transparent corporate tax policy is needed, as corporate tax avoidance loses a huge amount of money every year, around eur 5070 billion, through profit shifting. member states should also act more concertedly in the fight against aggressive tax planning and improve transparency, consistency and convergence in corporate taxation policies in the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text because it is necessary to ensure greater transparency, especially when it comes to tax regulations. the eu loses around eur 50-70 billion every year because of corporate tax avoidance achieved via profit shifting alone. i agree that we need to address the topic of ‘aggressive tax planning’ where practices are by no means limited to luxembourg, and in fact are rife throughout the eu. the phenomenon of ‘aggressive tax planning’ consists of taking advantage of the technicalities of a tax system, or of mismatches between two or more tax systems, for the purpose of reducing tax liability. while this differs from tax fraud and tax evasion, which constitute illegal activities of evading tax liabilities, in essence all three practices serve to reduce the tax base, undermining faith in governments and businesses alike. since i agree that such practices should not be acceptable at any time, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the report by mr belder is a fair assessment of eu-china relations and publicly highlights both the positive and the negative aspects of the relations between the countries. it is also true that in any case we must talk and try to find common ground while also pointing out mistakes. thus, human rights will remain high on the agenda of the talks, as will unfair trade practices coming from their side. at the same time, we want better coordination in areas of strategic importance such as security and defence, the fight against terrorism, illegal migration, international crime, non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, global and regional security, secure energy supplies, global governance and regulation of finance and markets, climate change, as well as urbanisation, development and aid programmes and sustainable development, etc. the fact is that we can learn a lot from the chinese, because they are very competitive in certain areas of technology, and their concepts of learning and recruiting new skilled personnel are also interesting. the report is so critical where it needs to be, but it leaves the door open to dialogue, which is why i was happy to support it.
in writing. ‒ 2015 marks 40 years since the establishment of diplomatic relations between the eu and china, which are essential for finding mutual answers to a range of global issues and for identifying common interests. china is an important trading partner of the eu, which led to the opening of negotiations on a bilateral investment agreement in 2013. the eu-china summit took place in brussels on 29 june 2015, where both sides reaffirmed their commitment to deepening the partnership. the summit raised bilateral relations to a new level and also signalled a move towards closer political cooperation, going beyond trade relations to a coordinated strategic approach. the report highlights, inter alia, the strong economic growth of the chinese economy over the past 20 years and stresses that member states should make better use of the opportunities offered by this economic development. i agree that china should play a greater role in multilateral financial institutions, which would better reflect the size of its economy. i also believe that there is a need for increased coordination between the eu and china in areas of strategic importance. the report reflects the current picture of eu-china relations and highlights critical points that need to be addressed to improve cooperation. i supported the report in plenary on the basis of what you have described.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on eu-china relations. the report makes clear that the human rights situation in china is a cause for serious concern and that china needs to make great progress in respecting human rights and fundamental freedoms if it is to rank among developed countries and possibly among democratic countries in the future. i welcome the report's deep concern about the imminent adoption of the draft chinese law on the governance of ngos, which could lead to a further shrinking of the space for chinese civil society and seriously restrict freedom of association and expression in the country.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on eu-china relations because i believe that the eu-china partnership is of strategic importance. china is one of the eu's most important partners. china is a major international power and thus makes a significant contribution to global security, the fight against terrorism, the global financial and market order and sustainable development. it is also very important that the eu and china cooperate on investment, as china has a large and growing market and is an important trading partner of the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour in this matter because i recognise china as a relevant stakeholder in a worldwide political and economic sense and also as a relevant partner of european union in many fields. 2015 marks the 40th anniversary of diplomatic relations between the eu and china, whereas the eu-china strategic partnership is of key importance to relations between the eu and the people’s republic of china (prc) and to finding mutual answers to a range of global concerns and identifying common interests, such as global and regional security, counter-terrorism, the fight against organised crime, cyber security, weapons of mass destruction and nuclear non-proliferation, energy security, global financial and market regulation, climate change and sustainable development, as well as in creating a framework to address bilateral concerns between the eu and china. in this resolution we address the topics of the eu-china strategic partnership and cooperation, the internal and external situation, the human rights situation, and cross-strait relations, and i believe it shows a comprehensive approach that can be a significant step in increasing cooperation with china.
in writing. - we are currently facing one of the largest humanitarian crises in history. urbanization, rapid population growth, demographic change, more frequent and increasingly severe natural disasters, environmental degradation, climate change and resource scarcity are leaving behind poverty, inequality, migration, displacement and fragility. all of this has dramatically increased the need for humanitarian action around the world. the first world humanitarian summit will be held in istanbul on 23 and 24 may 2016. the report on the preparations for the world humanitarian summit analyses the current humanitarian crisis and makes a number of concrete proposals to improve the situation. the report underlines, inter alia, that the outcome document of the world humanitarian summit should contain a five-year plan for the development and operationalization of the concrete political commitments made. these should include an intergovernmental framework for monitoring and accountability, an assessment of the practices of aid organisations and an impact assessment involving the involvement of relevant stakeholders. i agree that the humanitarian principles of humanity, impartiality, neutrality and independence, as well as the fundamental rules of international humanitarian law and human rights as enshrined in the geneva conventions and their protocols, must be at the heart of all humanitarian action. the report reflects the need to find a suitable solution to the current humanitarian crisis, which is why i supported it in the plenary and voted for its adoption.
in writing. ‒ i abstained in the vote on the report on the preparations for the world humanitarian summit: challenges and opportunities for humanitarian aid. the need for humanitarian action worldwide has increased due to a number of challenges, such as urbanisation, rapid population growth, demographic change, and the increasing frequency and severity of natural disasters. i agree with the calls in the report on the global humanitarian system to be strengthened at the world humanitarian summit, while recognising the diversity of today's humanitarian response system and the complementary roles of all actors. but there are several points in the report that i cannot support. the report also talks about abortion and access to all sexual and reproductive health services, which i cannot support.
in writing. ‒ i abstained in the vote on the report on the preparation of the world humanitarian summit: challenges and opportunities for humanitarian aid, because the report adopted amendments that i could not support and do not advocate.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text because it is necessary to see and to react to the current situations in the world. first of all it is important to recognise and acknowledge the actors and policies that led to some of the challenges we are facing nowadays. the world is being faced with humanitarian crises, unprecedented both in their number, scale and persistence. together with continuous, protracted, man-made conflicts and recurring natural disasters, ‘level 3’ emergencies in syria, iraq, yemen, south sudan and the central african republic, and the ebola outbreak in west africa, have fuelled a sharp increase in the number of people in need of humanitarian aid. as the leading donor and key global player in humanitarian action, the eu has both a responsibility and the necessary leverage to take a leadership role in the quest for more efficient and effective ways to meet the needs of those affected by conflicts and disasters. the eu has good practices and innovative approaches to humanitarian aid and it should actively share its knowledge and can have added value, although it will also need to look at its own structures.
in writing. ‒ the base metals sector, which has played an important historical role in european integration, is the basis for the creation of european industrial added value and plays a vital role in the development of the whole economy. nevertheless, the industry faces serious problems. first, there is a decline in demand and strong global competition. this competition comes mainly from third countries where the same high standards and strict rules as in europe are not in place. investments in this sector are also moving to third countries in large numbers, mainly due to the relatively high energy prices and the cost of reducing emissions. the report analyses the current situation of the base metals sector and suggests measures to help develop the industry. the report includes some positive measures, such as a proposal to adjust the co2 limit and a proposal to partly reallocate auction revenues to environmental initiatives and measures to combat climate change. however, the report also calls for investment in co2 capture and storage and co2 capture and use and for the allocation of indirect carbon credits at eu level. although i support the development of a sustainable european base metal industry, i do not agree with some of the proposals in the report and therefore abstained from voting on the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the development of a sustainable european base metal industry. in recent years, the european steel sector has faced the worst crisis in its history, with more than 40 million tonnes of steel production capacity closed since 2008 and over 160,000 jobs lost, increasing the dependence of industrial manufacturing sectors on imports from third countries and losing industrial know-how, directly affecting millions of jobs. i support the report which stresses the importance of base metals for a number of industrial sectors, in particular the automotive, aerospace, energy, construction and packaging industries.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the development of a sustainable european base metal industry because i believe that the base metal industry is an important element in the economy and we must not allow ourselves to become dependent on others in this field. the commission also found that the chinese exporting producers were not able to compete with the union industry in the union market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i agree it is important to invest in future jobs, preferably in green jobs, and some sectors need special investment in order to do so. industrial policy must comprise the tools and resources needed to make low-carbon transition a reality, and that can only be done through strategic management of base metals industries and by ensuring that the right tools and resources are available to cope with the increase in carbon prices being called for by all the international institutions involved in combating climate change. in this resolution we addressed the topics that highlight the importance of base metals for the european industry; the overriding need to act on climate change and high energy prices; carbon border adjustment – a temporary and flexible measure of international dimension in line with the wt, compensation for indirect emissions, the support for investing in the production of low carbon metal, financial accounting and transparency, the issue of electricity supply contracts, the transfer of skills, the supply of raw materials and european trade protection measures in respect of base metals.
in writing. ‒ i support the european parliament's legislative resolution on the development of a sustainable european base metal industry, as i believe that structural mechanisms need to be adopted to enable the european base metal industry to be competitive on the market and thus to preserve jobs and industrial know-how while respecting high environmental standards.
in writing. on 15 september 2015, the hungarian government officially declared a 'mass immigration crisis' in relation to migration under the law that entered into force on the same day. the commission then assessed the migration legislation and implementation of the legislation of hungary and other member states in terms of its compliance with the eu asylum and border acquis. the commission shall also monitor the situation in hungary and in the other member states on a regular basis and, where it considers it necessary, initiate the infringement and pre-infringement procedures. the resolution on the situation in hungary highlights the support to the commission to address these existing concerns through infringement and pre-infringement procedures against a number of member states. i believe it is essential that member states come together, cooperate and respect democratic principles, the rule of law and fundamental rights in times of crisis. the member states should thus participate constructively in the debate on the european agenda on migration. i agree that all member states must fully respect eu law in their legislative and administrative practice and that this legislation must reflect the fundamental european values, and i therefore supported the resolution in the plenary.
in writing. - i voted against the resolution on the situation in hungary. the resolution proposed by the european people's party contained many points which were not taken into account in the joint resolution of certain political groups. the european commission, in response to an oral question from parliament in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, stated that the conditions for the activation of the rule of law framework in the case of hungary are not currently met, and at the same time adopted a series of measures in relation to the recent events in hungary, and the commissioner for justice, consumers and gender equality presented a review of these measures to parliament in plenary on 2 december 2015.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the resolution on the situation in hungary because it did not take into account the facts that we proposed in the eld political group. i think the els resolution was much better and contained the facts that i support.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i agree that the situation in hungary does not seem to be in line with european values and there is a need to stress the importance of the basic principles applied in the european union. the eu is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of people belonging to minorities, and these values are universal and common to all member states. recent developments and measures taken over the past few years in hungary have led to a serious systemic deterioration in the situation as regards the rule of law and fundamental rights, inter alia freedom of expression, including academic freedom, the human rights of migrants, asylum seekers and refugees, freedom of assembly and association, restrictions and obstructions to the activities of civil society organisations, the right to equal treatment, the rights of people belonging to minorities, including roma, jews and lgbti people, social rights, the functioning of the constitutional system, the independence of the judiciary and of other institutions and many worrying allegations of corruption and conflicts of interest.
my colleague preda has prepared a very interesting and substantial report. year after year, in human rights reports and in our european political practice, in cases where human rights are clearly violated, there is a bias towards certain countries. most of the time, it's always the same countries like israel, morocco, armenia, turkey, saudi arabia, qatar, iran. what is happening at europe's borders, in the countries from which refugees come, should be a serious warning to us of where such selective criteria lead in the countries that violate human rights. i'll give you the latest concrete example. the european commission and the council reacted in an unacceptable and totally incomprehensible manner to the judgment of the european court of justice, which a week ago annulled the european union's agricultural and fisheries agreement with morocco. this agreement shall include the occupied territory of western sahara. morocco is violating international law and the human rights of the sahrawi people. that is what the court stated in its reasoning. instead of implementing and complying with the court's decision, the commission and the council announced an appeal. why would i do that? they have thus only demonstrated a disrespectful and i would say shameful attitude towards the european court and its role in defending human rights.
respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms must be at the heart of the european union's external action. human rights are often violated against those who fight for them, and the most vulnerable in our society - children and women. the european union therefore has a great responsibility and duty to draw attention to the many human rights violations in third countries and to monitor and encourage all stakeholders - government, civil society and the private sector - to work towards respect for human rights, including the fight against corruption, tax evasion, tax avoidance and tax havens. human rights defenders in third countries and civil society, for whom public space must not be restricted, have a major role to play in this process. in countries with no or poorly functioning civil society, there is a greater likelihood that the authorities do not respect human rights and fundamental freedoms.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. 20 years ago, the dayton accords ended one of the bloodiest wars in europe since world war ii. of course, the agreement was necessary at the time to ensure peace in bosnia and herzegovina and to stop the bloodshed in the country. unfortunately, the agreement failed to create, to create functioning, well-functioning states, as was intended and as many had hoped. that is why bosnia and herzegovina today unfortunately still faces a difficult economic situation, high unemployment, brain drain, corruption, discrimination and more. and i think after 20 years, it's time to look at the constitution and look at these constitutional acts that are also, in a way, preventing the normal functioning of the state. that's why the green group has proposed that we have a debate on this topic in the house and above all use it as a positive moment to shape the post-dayton future of the country. as early as 2005, the venice commission had prepared a comprehensive, detailed and very good proposal on how to reform the existing constitution of bosnia and herzegovina in such a way that it would be functional in the true sense of the word. so we do not need to reinvent the wheel of reform, but use existing documents and proposals, which are excellent and certainly welcome. the state as it is structured, of course, divided into entities, cantons, districts, makes it impossible to function efficiently and normally. it is also due, among other things, to the various institutions, such as the veto, which is sometimes used more often than the search for compromise. of course, dayton needs to be changed, it needs to be thought through. but i am sure that there are documents, of course, that there is a will that can do these tasks or these changes. the venice commission was very clear in their writings, and one of them is that, of course, the entities would have to somehow transfer some of their sovereignty to the state, which could be more effective that way. we cannot force changes in bosnia and herzegovina, we can only propose them. it is up to the political authorities and the citizens to decide whether they want change and thus a more efficient and more promising state.
i regret to repeat one of the variations we have heard today on the subject of bosnia and herzegovina. the dayton accords brought peace to bosnia and herzegovina, or better, ended the war and opened a new chapter in the country that had never been seen before. at the time it was made, dayton was a symbol of peace. today, it's a symbol and an excuse for the dysfunction of the state. it was a diplomatic achievement. it brought together the actors of the balkan wars and conflicts, but unfortunately it sealed and legalized ethnic cleansing and generates today, in completely different circumstances, mutual distrust and unconstructive behaviour of nations and their political representatives. the bosnia and herzegovina we knew was a source of bright ideas, sparkling humor, and rich culture. yes, even the dynamic of coexistence in diversity. today, bosnia and herzegovina must be recognised as an adult state, its people be given responsibility for its development, and the patronage of the state and external interference must be stopped. with this intervention, the drama of the bosniaks, croats and serbs in bih began. let's give bosnia a chance to start her european story.
"if we fail, the war will continue and future generations will hold us responsible for all the consequences", secretary of state warren christopher said at the signing of the dayton accords. while the agreement ended the bloody balkan war, it also institutionalized ethnically motivated interests, cemented the country's ethnic division and, as many say, put a straitjacket on bosnia and herzegovina. the country has made some progress in the postwar years, but far from enough. it is still institutionally incapacitated, poisoned by corruption and resigned to the fact that well-intentioned ideas impede decisions in the interests of particular ethnic groups. the 20th anniversary of dayton can be a watershed moment. there is no doubt that the country needs a new system that will serve the people first and allow the country to make rapid progress on the road to the union. in the past year, as we have focused on economic and social reforms, positive changes have taken place. the leaders' commitments to implement them inspire hope that 2016 might be better. it is essential that bosnia and herzegovina, taking into account the demands of its citizens and in cooperation with civil society, works hard towards the objective of obtaining candidate status for membership of the union. and i strongly condemn any tendency to strengthen the nationalist spirit, to consolidate autonomy or to create a state of their own. at this point, this behavior is completely irresponsible. bosnia and herzegovina deserves, dear colleagues, to succeed and i will do everything in my power to help it along the way. (the speaker agreed to accept the question raised by the blue card (rule 162 (8)).
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. dear colleague, as i said, bosnia and herzegovina has made significant progress and corruption is a problem of the western balkan countries and is common to... not just the western balkan countries. that's why we have a process of negotiations, chapters 23, 24, that bring the country extraordinary progress. by opening the door to the state, the european union also opens... or closes the door to corruption. and i think the leaders there are very aware that they can only be part of the european union if they meet all the conditions. and we're here to help them.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the draft decision on the establishment, powers, size and mandate of the committee of inquiry into emission measurements in the automotive sector. i voted against the motion for a resolution because i do not see the need to monitor the test targets for emission measurements and to investigate whether the commission and the member states' authorities have not taken appropriate and effective action to ensure control and enforcement and have not enforced an explicit ban on switching devices.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the proposal for a european parliament decision on the establishment, powers, numerical strength and mandate of the committee of inquiry into emissions measurements in the automotive sector (2015/3037 ((rso)) because i doubt the effectiveness of setting up special committees of inquiry.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision on setting up a committee of inquiry into emission measurements in the automotive sector, its powers, numerical strength and term of office, because i agree it is necessary to investigate the alleged failure of the commission to comply with the obligation to keep under review the test cycles used to measure emissions and to adapt them, if they are no longer adequate or no longer reflect real world emissions and to investigate the alleged failure of the commission and the member states’ authorities to take proper and effective action to oversee the enforcement of, and to enforce, the explicit ban on defeat devices. i believe the committee will have an important role in setting new standards and improve situation in this regard.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol to the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the socialist republic of vietnam, of the other part. this agreement will provide a modern and comprehensive framework for the relations between the european union and vietnam, which have been further expanded and deepened in recent years. after 25 years of diplomatic relations between the eu and vietnam, we have now voted on a comprehensive partnership and cooperation agreement, which, together with a trade agreement, will allow us to deepen and upgrade our relations. of course, we must not forget that this country still faces many challenges, especially in the field of human rights. vietnam needs reforms, in particular in respect of minority rights, the fight against corruption and the judiciary.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol to the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the socialist republic of vietnam, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union, as i consider that the accession of croatia to the european union requires the renewal of that agreement.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the socialist republic of vietnam, of the other part, on behalf of the european union, as i consider that the cooperation between the eu and the socialist republic of vietnam is important, especially in the field of trade policy, as the eu is vietnam's largest exporter. the eu must establish with vietnam a sound cooperation and a beneficial partnership that will enhance common interests and have positive effects on the economy, trade, investment, new technologies, job creation and poverty reduction.
in writing. ‒ 2015 marks the 25th anniversary of eu-vietnam relations, which have rapidly expanded from trade and aid to a more comprehensive relationship. vietnam has consistently adopted a strong pro-european approach over the past decades and is actively engaged with the eu. it is also the country responsible for coordinating relations in the asean-eu dialogue for the period 2012-2015 for asean (association of southeast asian nations). over the past two decades, vietnam has made great progress in achieving development goals, poverty reduction, economic development, social security, employment, education and health. the report welcomes the conclusion of a comprehensive partnership and cooperation agreement with vietnam, which aims to establish a modern and reciprocal partnership on a broad basis. the agreement covers cooperation between the eu and vietnam in a number of areas, but in my view the most important are the joint commitments in the field of human rights. these will be reinforced by the long-standing dialogue with the vietnamese government on the specific promotion of freedom of expression, assembly, association and religion. i agree that vietnam has great strategic importance as a key partner of the eu in south east asia and asean. as the comprehensive partnership and cooperation agreement defines future relations in a broad field, such as further strengthening cooperation on global and regional challenges, i voted in favour of the resolution in plenary.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the socialist republic of vietnam, of the other part, on behalf of the european union, as i consider that the cooperation between the eu and the socialist republic of vietnam is important, especially in the field of trade policy, as the eu is vietnam's largest exporter. the eu must establish with vietnam a sound cooperation and a beneficial partnership that will enhance common interests and have positive effects on the economy, trade, investment, new technologies, job creation and poverty reduction.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe it is necessary to recognise the partnership and cooperation between the eu and vietnam as an important step in diplomatic, political and economic relations. 2015 marks the 25th anniversary of eu-vietnam relations; these relations have broadened rapidly from trade and aid to a more comprehensive relationship and i hope that the eu and vietnam will both benefit economically from the ratification of this agreement and that it will pave the way for a future agreement on trade and investment on job creation and poverty reduction. i also welcome the economic and financial reforms undertaken by the vietnamese authorities to boost vietnam’s further integration into the world economy and i hope vietnam will continue such reforms. i also strongly agree with the call on the vietnamese government to make concrete progress on the implementation of the unhrc upr recommendations, starting with the creation of an independent national human rights institution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the completion of european economic and monetary union. i welcome the commission's communication on the final formulation of european economic and monetary union, which sets out a very ambitious programme for the future. the resolution proposes a series of measures focusing on four strategic areas: building economic union, financial union, fiscal union and political union. the key question is how much political will there is to implement this project by the national governments of the member states and by the european commission and the european parliament. i am a firm believer in the future of the euro and in the future of economic and monetary union.
in writing. ‒ i supported the completion of european economic and monetary union because i believe that the five presidents' report is well prepared and that we need an ambitious plan to strengthen the euro area, and that an independent euro area supervisory board should be set up.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i agree with the text on ‘the review of the economic governance framework: stocktaking and challenges’ that has underlined the need for ambitious and rapid progress in strengthening the euro area. in this resolution we recognise that some steps have been taken in the right direction, but we also stress that further efforts will be necessary to address the current shortcomings of the institutional framework of the euro area. this topic is very important also as regards the stability and trust of the monetary union and i regret that the package published by the commission does not leave enough room for parliamentary oversight and debate at european level, which are necessary to ensure the democratic accountability of the decisions taken in the context of the emu and consequently to ensure citizens’ ownership of euro area governance.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the violations of human rights, democracy and the rule of law and in line with the rights of children and the family. i also committed myself to protecting our traditional values, on which europe is built. the ideological themes in this report divide us, and above all they are the responsibility of the eu member states. and it saddens me that the most important democratic institution is being turned into a place of constant political and ideological confrontation.
in writing. ‒ the report in question concerns the eu's obligation to develop a common foreign and security policy (article 21 teu). the latter must be guided by the principles of democracy, the rule of law, universality, human rights, fundamental freedoms, respect for human dignity and equality and solidarity. the 2014 annual report on human rights and democracy in the world and on eu policy in this area has been produced. it notes, among other things, that respect for human rights is being challenged and threatened all over the world. more than half the world's population still lives under undemocratic and repressive regimes, and freedom has steadily declined around the world in the past year. i believe that respect for, and the promotion, indivisibility and protection of the universality of human rights must be the basis of the eu's internal and external action. the report on the annual report calls on the eu and its member states to step up their efforts to put human rights and democratic values at the heart of their relations with the wider world. the report also concludes that the eu should use appropriate measures to address serious human rights violations in third countries, including through trade, energy or security relations. i supported the report because i believe that we must fight against the human rights violations that cost society and individuals.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the 2014 annual report on human rights and democracy in the world and the european union's policy in this area. the european union therefore has a great responsibility and duty to draw attention to the many human rights violations in third countries and to monitor and encourage all stakeholders - government, civil society and the private sector - to work towards respect for human rights. i support the report in most of its points, but i don't support it in those parts that talk about lgbt and abortion rights. i cannot support this, which is why i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the reports on the 2014 annual report on human rights and democracy in the world and the european union's policy in this area, as i believe that this report did not take sufficient account of the proposals of our group. i also disagree with some of the ideological themes in the report, which is why i could not support the final report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is a must to reflect on today’s worldwide challenges when it comes to respect for human rights. as a member of the afet committee i follow these topics on a regular basis and i supported this resolution which addresses the most crucial violations of human rights. i especially supported the acknowledgement of the inalienable right of peoples to self-determination and i strongly advocate improving the situation in western sahara. i support the call for the fundamental rights of the people of western sahara, including freedom of association, freedom of expression and the right to assembly, to be respected; i support the demand to release all sahrawi political prisoners and the demand to guarantee access to the territories of western sahara for members of parliament, independent observers, ngos and the press; i also urge the united nations to provide minurso with a human rights mandate, in line with all other un peacekeeping missions around the world, and to work towards a fair and lasting settlement of the western sahara conflict, on the basis of the right to self-determination of the sahrawi people, in accordance with the relevant united nations resolutions.
in writing. ‒ like the vast majority of members, i supported the joint resolution of the european parliament on the 20th anniversary of the dayton peace agreement in bih. in its resolution, parliament stressed that the agreement had ended the bloodiest war in modern history, but had failed to establish a functioning institutional framework that proved too complex. the most important thing here, and i strongly support this thinking, is that the process of bih's integration into the european union continues. this process, together with more active regional cooperation, is the best guarantee for achieving reconciliation and ending hatred between ethnic groups. it will soon be seen that the future is only shared, within the eu, and that borders and restrictions do not add value or improve lives.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the 20th anniversary of the dayton peace agreement (2015/2979(rsp)) because i believe that the bih leadership has moved away from the political system defined in the dayton constitution and that its renewal is therefore necessary. some ineffective laws need to be reformed, and measures need to be taken to restore the rule of law and protect human rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe it is important to acknowledge the importance of the signing of the dayton peace agreement, remembering all of the tragic victims of the war in bosnia and herzegovina, and to express sincere condolences to the families of those who lost their lives. we also must admit that this agreement ended the war but failed to create a functioning, self-sustainable state, and that the institutional set-up of the country is today overly complex and has proved to be ineffective. at the same time it is important to acknowledge the positive transformation that bosnia and herzegovina has undergone in the past 20 years, from a war-torn country emerging from war to a state aspiring for membership of the european union, and i sincerely hope that the situation in bosnia and herzegovina will become more stable in the future.
in writing. ‒ the global security environment around the eu has changed dramatically in recent times. the uncontrolled proliferation of weapons poses a serious risk to peace, security, human rights and sustainable development. statistics show that worldwide, one person dies every minute as a result of gun violence. the same statistics apply to the manufacture of 15 new weapons. the report refers to eu arms exports and finds that eu member states were responsible for 25.4% of the actual supply of the main conventional arms worldwide in the period 2010-2014. in 2013 alone, eu member states exported weapons worth a total of eur 36,7 billion. i believe that the defence industry should be an instrument for the implementation of the defence and security of the member states. arms export control is an integral part of the eu's foreign and security policy. i agree that the eu must ensure the consistency of external action as a whole in the context of external relations. this would promote democracy and the rule of law, prevent conflict, eradicate poverty, promote intercultural dialogue and maintain international stability and security. i believe that unjustified, illegal and deregulated arms transfers undermine political stability and threaten democratic, social and economic development. agreeing with the need to ensure coherence between arms exports and the eu's credibility as a global defender of human rights, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the report on arms exports: implementation of the common position. in the security situation we have been facing lately, this report is necessary because we need a unified and common policy on arms exports. the smuggling of arms and the illicit trade in arms is a major problem, posing a serious threat to peace, security and human rights. i abstained because the report in some parts touches upon the territories of the member states, since national defence remains a competence of the member states.
in writing. ‒ in voting on the report on arms exports: implementation of common position 2008/944/cfsp, i abstained because i do not agree with the proposals in the report which were not in line with the proposals of the els.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text because i am deeply concerned about the spread of armed conflicts, notably those in ukraine, syria, iraq, libya and yemen as well as all international conflicts, which, in an increasingly globalised world, are a threat to world stability and security and have determined a less stable and less secure neighbourhood for the eu; in relation to the protraction of such conflicts, i agree that arms transfers to states in conflict have been a major contributing factor. i am against the use of weapons, the international trade of weapons, individuals bearing weapons and i believe stricter measures and legislation should be applied when it comes to weapons. developments in the last two years have shown that weapons sometimes end up in the hands of terrorists or repressive regimes or of countries where children might be recruited or used in hostilities.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on patents in the field of agriculture. i myself strongly condemn the decision of the european patent office, which in march this year allowed the patenting of certain varieties of broccoli and tomatoes obtained by the breeding technique. the fact that the prohibition on patenting products obtained by biological processes such as crossbreeding is crucial for innovation and food safety makes the office's decision all the more surprising. the process of milling plant varieties is an innovative process that has been traditionally practiced by growers since ancient times. unrestricted access to biological material is therefore essential to foster innovation and ensure global food security. in addition, this method is useful in the fight against climate change. plant varieties and traits developed from biological breeding techniques should therefore be excluded from patentability. i hope the commission will understand that.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on patents and breeders' rights. intellectual property rights are important for maintaining economic incentives for the development of new plant products and ensuring competitiveness. i welcome the invitation to the european commission to forward its forthcoming clarification on the patentability of products obtained from essentially biological processes to the european patent office, so that it can be used as a complementary means of interpretation, and to work with the member states to ensure that the union continues to ensure access to material obtained from essentially biological processes and its use for breeding, so as to where appropriate not interfere with member states' practice on the exemption of reapers.
in writing. ‒ i supported patent and breeder rights because i believe that unrestricted access to biological material is needed. this encourages breeding innovation and ensures global food security and prevents market monopoly. i also believe that it is essential to exclude from patentability plant varieties and traits developed by means of predominantly biological breeding techniques.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i agree that access to biological plant material encompassing plant traits is absolutely necessary for boosting innovation and the development of new varieties in order to guarantee global food security, tackle climate change and prevent monopolies within the breeding sector, while at the same time providing more opportunities for smes. intellectual property rights are equally important in order to safeguard economic incentives for developing new plant products and to deliver competitiveness. i supported this resolution because i think it is necessary to clarify the scope and interpretation of some previous directives in order to ensure legal clarity regarding the prohibition of the patentability of products obtained from essentially biological processes.
in writing. ‒ the security situation in burundi has deteriorated sharply in recent days following attacks on three military camps in the capital bujumbura. as of december 2015, the fdlr has been responsible for the deaths of at least 11 people in the rdc. the commission has also provided information on the number of cases of irregularities reported to the commission by the member states in the context of the investigation. according to the office of the un high commissioner for human rights and other human rights organisations, politically motivated abuses and violations of human rights and acts of violence were reported in the country in the period leading up to and following the elections. these acts were directed against opposition activists, human rights defenders and, in particular, journalists. the worsening political situation in burundi has displaced more than 200,000 people. the eu stepped up humanitarian assistance to the displaced population in july 2015 with an additional eur 4,5 million. the joint motion for a resolution on the situation in burundi calls for an immediate end to violence, human rights violations and political intimidation of opponents and for the immediate disarmament of all armed groups affiliated to political parties, in full compliance with international law and human rights. it is imperative that all parties establish the conditions necessary to restore confidence and promote national unity. i supported the resolution as described and voted for its adoption.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the situation in burundi. the situation in burundi has deteriorated dramatically in recent days, with at least 87 people killed by burundian security forces. according to the office of the united nations high commissioner for human rights and other human rights organisations, there were politically motivated abuses and violations of human rights and violent acts against opposition activists, human rights defenders and, in particular, journalists in the period before and after the elections. i support the call in the resolution for an immediate end to violence, human rights violations and political intimidation of opponents and for the immediate disarmament of all armed groups affiliated to political parties, which must be fully in line with international law and human rights.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the situation in burundi (2015/2973 ((rsp)) because, given the current deteriorating situation in that country, it is necessary to establish an effective policy to prevent a regional crisis. i also support the deployment of human rights observers and military experts to burundi, as there are serious violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms in that country.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution concerning the worsening situation in burundi, where more than 400 people have been killed since president pierre nkurunziza decided to run for a controversial third term, earlier this year. violence has put in serious danger the peace and stability of the country and of the wider region. this political crisis, the worst since 2005, forces the international community to take action. i also supported the proposal of the council of peace and security of the african union to send a force of 5 000 men to burundi. we are dealing with crimes against humanity and we need to react swiftly. i also agree that the eu and its member states must freeze all assistance to the burundian government and in the resolution we also invite all parties concerned to end hostilities through dialogue, which we are ready to fully support.
in writing. ‒ virunga national park is located in north kivu and eastern province of the democratic republic of the congo, bordering rwanda and uganda. it is the oldest national park in africa and is protected as a unesco world heritage site. it is world-renowned for its unique habitats and rich biodiversity. the park is particularly famous for its endangered mountain gorillas. despite its status as a protected wilderness, the park has been threatened for decades by armed groups engaged in logging, deforestation, and other forms of unsustainable and illegal resource exploitation. in addition, there is a risk of oil-fever in the protected area. this, combined with mass poverty, a weak state, poor governance and uncertain conditions across the region, could have severe social and environmental consequences and further destabilise the situation. the motion for a resolution stresses the urgent need to prevent irreparable damage to virunga national park. calls on the government of the democratic republic of the congo to enforce and respect its legislation and regulations prohibiting environmentally harmful activities such as oil exploration and exploitation in protected areas; the government of the drc should also address the loopholes in draft laws on hydrocarbons and nature protection that allow the exploration and exploitation of natural resources in national parks and world heritage sites. for all these reasons, i voted to pass the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the protection of virunga national park in the democratic republic of the congo. virunga national park is the oldest national park in africa and despite its protected wilderness status, it has been threatened for decades by armed groups engaged in poaching, deforestation and other forms of unsustainable and illegal resource exploitation. i welcome the reference in the resolution to the urgent need to prevent irreparable damage to virunga national park, which was designated a world heritage site by unesco in 1979 and a world heritage site in danger in 1994.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the protection of virunga national park in the democratic republic of the congo (2015/2728 ((rsp)) because i believe that the protection of the oldest national park in africa is very important, as it is the most biodiverse park in africa and is under the protection of unesco. the conservation of this diversity is of great importance for all mankind and it is necessary to prevent the illegal exploitation of the natural resources of the park by mining activities, coal production and poaching.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i recognise the status of the virunga national park as a protected wilderness; shamefully the park has been under threat for decades by armed groups that engage in poaching, deforestation and other forms of unsustainable and illegal resource exploitation. as a result, virunga has been included on the list of world heritage sites in danger. i also recognise that the virunga park has an annual economic value of usd 48.9 million and, in a stable situation, the park could contribute to growth in the economy and in tourism, and could have a value of usd 1 billion per year and create 45 000 jobs. i believe we need to preserve the park and uphold its integrity, therefore i supported the calls for increasing the commitment to funding sustainable conservation and economic development and diversification of the surrounding region. we should at the same time support the drc government in developing sustainable energy and economic alternatives to extractive industries, in improving the mobilisation of domestic resources, especially through fair and progressive tax systems and in combating poaching, illegal logging, illegal mining and corruption, which are persistent factors that could cause irreversible damage to the park.
