mr president, i must also thank mr renzi for what he has been able to achieve during the last six months. mr renzi, you came along with an ambitious agenda at a time when the financial crisis was still hitting hard on all of the western world. you also came at a time when we have a new parliament, when we have a new commission. i would like to stake out two points where i actually feel that we – and especially the presidency – could have done much more. the first one is the digital single market, which my leader, guy verhofstadt, also mentioned. but the second one is maybe the biggest task that we have to address for the future, and that is the climate goals, where the council actually lowered the ambitions which were set high by this house. i do hope that slowing down on the green path for the future does not mean that we lose investments and pace for the future, because that task is something we have to keep up during the whole legislature to be able to tackle the tasks that we have to address in the future for business and especially for the citizens of europe. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i am always in favour of taking steps forward when it comes to green policies, because i am among those in this house who believe that the future lies on the green path, which is beneficial for our industries and economies, as well as for jobs. however, we are not speaking about the commission’s working programme at the moment; we are reviewing the italian presidency. i think more could have been done, but actually much was also achieved if we take the circumstances into account: a new parliament, a new commission and also the devastating effects of the financial crisis that we are in. but that does not mean that we have an excuse not to do the right things on the green path.
mr president, commission president juncker, prime minister renzi, you are all here! i would like to take this opportunity to thank the italian presidency for the very good work it has done in each area. after the events of the last few days in france, it seems almost foolish to discuss small matters such as trademark rules, but perhaps that is the strength of our union - that we can deal with big important issues and some minor ones at the same time. as a proponent of the reform of european trade marks, i have had the privilege of working with very skilled diplomats and experts. i am convinced that, with the great progress we have made, we will soon have a solution to this problem. the europe of the people was strengthened by the grief expressed by three and a half million citizens over the weekend. they expect us to defend openness now the open europe where fundamental rights are a cornerstone. that is why it is so important that we now establish and promote this in everything we do.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? ladies and gentlemen, the compromise is regrettable, but it is the only compromise possible, and i hope that it will be adopted. i have never been able, and none of us could ever be able, to defend the way in which gmo technology is being used today. it is not good for man or for the environment. it is only useful for the profits of the very large companies. never forget, though, that technology in itself is never good or bad. it depends on who's doing what. i want us in europe, above all, to take back control of this type of plant breeding from the united states.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? the amendment to the law we are voting on today allows member states to largely decide for themselves whether gmos are to be grown on their territory. i think it is a well-considered compromise and i shall vote for it. it respects our different attitudes and views on gmos. it allows the member states to take more decisions themselves. i think it's good in a matter like this that splits. there are different views, and it is important to respect the will of the people. for my part, i think we should listen very carefully to the science and to the evaluations that, for example, efsa is making. we also have to take the precautionary principle into account. it is important not to rush into difficult issues, or allow things that could have negative effects on human health and the environment. the agreement also provides for measures to deal with the cultivation of gmos, so-called buffer zones between member states. i think that's very important.
in writing. i voted against the proposal for several reasons. although the current fisheries agreements between the eu and non-eu countries are much better than in the past, especially for fish stocks, there are several problems. fisheries policy must have a functioning social dimension. instead, the eu continues to exploit the waters of developing countries. the alternative should be to help these countries build their own sustainable fishing industry. in addition, in this case são tomé and príncipe will receive extremely low compensation for fishing and the chances that this money will contribute to the local fisheries industry are low. the price will be eur 35 per tonne in year 1, rising to eur 70 per tonne in year 4 (compared to the eu-seychelles (mayotte) agreement where the price is eur 110 per tonne in year 1 and eur 6 125 per tonne in year 6). at the same time, there is a lack of reliable catch data for the area and the possibilities to monitor capacity are low. the prevalence of corruption in the region also leads to development funds being 'lost along the way'. finally, there is also shark hunting in the area. all in all, this led me to vote against the proposal.
in writing. i voted against the motion. this agreement is different in that it involves the eu giving fishing rights to another country. but that's problematic. local fishermen from mayotte, for example, have not been included in the negotiations, and even the committee's rapporteur is critical of this and of the fact that only 24 nautical miles are reserved for local fishing. mayotte should also be given the opportunity to develop its own sustainable fishing industry. for example, there is currently no infrastructure to deal with large-scale fisheries, which means that the local community is unlikely to benefit from this agreement. although france is called upon to use the european maritime and fisheries fund to create an appropriate administrative framework, monitoring activities, physical infrastructure and sufficient capacity to meet cfp requirements, none of these conditions is currently fulfilled. i am saying that this must be put in place before a fisheries agreement is concluded. the seychelles are also known for letting other countries fish under their flag. so i voted no.
madam president, i wonder why we have the european food security authority at all if we ignore the last twenty-five years of research, with millions of euros invested in assessing gmos. so far, no evidence shows risks for food security, animal welfare or health. i understand that many people are concerned, but policy in this house should be based on science, not on emotions. the debate has instead been carried by green ideology; it has created the fears that gmo is something artificial. by letting member states so easily opt out, we are fragmenting the single market. how does this go along with a common agricultural and food security policy? the answer has not been given. we need free choice, but for consumers. that is why it should be labelled if it is gmo or not. we need it for producers, so that all producers – and not only big companies – can produce gmos, rather than having member states opting out. science, research, development, technology, innovation – that is the way ahead in europe.
in writing. i voted against the report this with the intention of voting in favour of the original proposal by the committee on the environment. the starting point for this report was good, but in the very hurried tripartite talks many of the most important parts were removed, which has created a text which is on a weak legal basis and does not give member states an absolute possibility to decide for themselves whether to abandon gmo crops. the polluter pays principle is not included in the text and the change of the legal basis of the legislation from environment to internal market and the transfer of the precautionary principle in the text to a reason risk leakage of the precautionary principle in favour of competition issues and market access of gmo companies and further undermining the environmental perspective. although the proposal contains some improvements compared with the previous one, i have therefore voted against it.
legislation on gm crops must be based on a scientific assessment of risks and benefits. this has been a swedish position ever since we joined the eu 20 years ago, regardless of political colour. it is regrettable that the new swedish government has departed from the principle of scientificity when it chose to abstain from voting despite the green light given by efsa. the swedish government thus chose to base its policy on popular opinion rather than science. the fact that the government chose not to enshrine the principle decision in the eu council makes matters worse. the proposal for a national ban on gmos is another step away from scientificity which we cannot support. it risks fragmenting the internal market and thus also threatens the free movement which is the cornerstone of european cooperation. european legislation must be based on scientific and objective criteria.
in writing. — this report was misleadingly labelled as giving member states more powers. in actual fact, whilst amendment 20 did give powers back, this was cancelled out by the other 50 amendments which maintained and re-asserted eu control and authority over the whole procedure. the eu did not allow us to vote on individual amendments, which we regard as rather unfair. therefore, the sweden democrats could not support this block vote.
in writing. — this report was misleadingly labelled as giving member states more powers. in actual fact, whilst amendment 20 did give powers back, this was cancelled out by the other 50 amendments which maintained and re-asserted eu control and authority over the whole procedure. the eu did not allow us to vote on individual amendments, which we regard as rather unfair. therefore, the sweden democrats could not support this bloc vote.
i voted against the motion. the commission's original proposal proposed increased protection for red coral and animals caught by mistake, amongst others. however, most of the amendments adopted by the committee on fisheries have resulted in a weakened protection compared to the commission's proposal. since even the commission proposal was not progressive enough in its defence of the environment and wildlife, and this was then further weakened by the committee, i chose to vote against.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the first step should be to handle taxpayers' money responsibly in this house. donald tusk has herman van rompuy as his biggest idol, according to his own statement. herman van rompuy is now leaving parliament with an indefensible proportion of taxpayers' euro banknotes in his pockets. he will receive €730,000 over the next three years. of course, there's still money coming in after that. withdrawals and pensions at levels that are a mockery of every ordinary worker in the union only reinforce the contempt and disinterest of ordinary people who have worked hard to achieve a decent standard of living at retirement age. but what they get is nothing compared to what herman van rompuy and his successor donald tusk will get. you also see it as an obligation to implement genuine economic and monetary union, unlike me, who see it as a very serious threat to the countries which will then find themselves as puppet states under the eu's headquarters. if they succeed, they will have finally constructed a united states of europe. my team and i will do everything in our power to put an end to this insanity. you no longer have the confidence of the common people in this house. voter disdain is only growing, and voter turnout is only decreasing.
mr president, i have two points. firstly, having listened to this discussion and the shouting from over there today, it strikes me that the problem of the extreme right in this house is that they are not at all right, only extreme – extremely wrong, and i think that their correct name should in future be ‘the extreme wrong’. their only idea is disrespect and contempt for other people. that is an idea we have seen too much of. it is so wrong and so extreme that their name should be ‘the extreme wrongs’. secondly: the investment plan. do not invent the wheel again. i think it is good to have a plan in order to mobilise capital financing of new investments, but the gap we have in europe is much bigger than any public investment plan can bridge. the investment plan and the bridging of the investment gap will need real political reforms and structural changes. the digital agenda, the telecom package – do it! the internal market and the service directive – ensure that it is done! this will bring an opportunity for profitable investments with a return on investments, because the nature and the spirit of commercial investments are that they are both commercial and investments – not spending. that is the way we should proceed. we need to deregulate, make things easier and ensure that we can have an open europe. if we can do that, we will fight the lack of growth and the lack of the extreme right, who are the extreme wrong. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – mr rübig, you are quite right, because this is exactly what we need. we need a structured reform process, making it easier for new companies, small companies, medium-sized companies and big companies to invest and flourish in europe. your approach is a very good one: make it easier, then we will get some of the growth; invest more and then we will get more growth.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the resolution on libya which we adopted on 16 september describes the situation in the country in terms of a power vacuum, violence and political instability. today, those words are inadequate. today there is reason to speak of anarchy and civil war. meanwhile, another human catastrophe is unfolding. in 2014, the italian navy rescued around 100,000 refugees in the mediterranean, mainly from libyan ports. but thousands of the fugitives could not be saved, their fragile vessels never reaching the shores of europe. now, as we discuss libya, there are a couple of painful facts that deserve mention. there are no legal ways into europe today. the vulnerability of boat migrants is perhaps the most obvious and tragic consequence of this. the italian rescue operation mare nostrum had more than twice the resources of its successor, triton. the member states' lack of willingness to help is discouraging. it is our duty to speak out about this, about the lack of fair distribution of responsibility between the eu member states. only together, through common solidarity, can we solve this catastrophic refugee situation. (the speaker agreed to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure).
(blue card) that is exactly what i am talking about, namely that we can do much more on the eu side in helping people fleeing war and persecution. europe is one of the richest regions in the world, one of the richest parts of the world. yet, we have received only a fraction of the fellow humans fleeing war and persecution. we can do much more, and above all we can distribute responsibility and solidarity between the member states much better than we do today.
for the alde group. president. - the debate is closed. i think it is important that we have this debate tonight because we are continuously receiving, week after week, month after month, information about boats sinking in the mediterranean and people drowning. this is the message that haunts us. we politicians must now admit defeat, because people continue to die in the mediterranean and the mediterranean has become a sea of death, a gigantic cemetery without borders. human traffickers continue to find new ways to make even more money off desperate people. to find a solution, we must try to get to the bottom of the problem. it's about people fleeing war and persecution and finding themselves in desperate situations. there are no legal ways to get to europe. the only alternative is ruthless human traffickers who make a fortune off the misery of others. the smugglers have a monopoly on the market and will continue to exploit people's desperation to make money as long as we do not take our responsibility towards humanity. we cannot continue to refer to third countries. we have to be part of it, too. our mission must be to take away the smugglers' business idea. only then will we put an end to these voyages across the sea. it is by creating legal, safe routes to europe, increased resettlement, humanitarian visas issued at embassies and consulates, in refugee zones and refugee camps. because getting here safely is not the same as opening the doors to a mass influx of migrants, as some critics seem to believe. those who come here are subject to the same asylum process as everyone else, and those who have reasons are allowed to stay and those who don't are not allowed to stay. it is never up to anyone else to solve europe's difficult problems. we have to take responsibility and do it now because it's on fire.
madam president, i would like to thank you. mr avramopoulos, perhaps i was not paying attention, but i did not hear you make the promise you made in the libe committee in september to also examine the possibility of introducing humanitarian visas. we have been able to read that the fight against human trafficking should be a priority. i hope that the humanitarian visas will also be part of that fight. legal channels are a very concrete way of giving priority to the fight against human traffickers. the smugglers' ingenuity is infinite, as we know, and they will always be one step ahead of us. the ghost ship is just one of many attempts. our only way to win that battle is to take away their market, just as cecilia wikström said earlier. a broader resettlement programme, greater solidarity between member states, asylum visas, but also more support for conflict resolution and poverty reduction - they are all, each in its own right, parts of the solution in the fight against smugglers, so i hope that all parts are given equal priority.
madam president, our answer to the mounting and multiple challenges in the mediterranean is not to close the borders but to open safe and legal ways for refugees while combating criminality and abuse. citizens have legitimate concerns, too many are coming too fast, but populism is never the answer. our target should be the smugglers and not the refugees. our response to the ruthless criminals who abandon children, women and men in ghost boats should be clear: increase security cooperation, increase cooperation with third countries like turkey, strengthen frontex, triton and the eurosur coordination system with more resources. all member states should assist the mediterranean states facing this emergency, and i commend italy for the ‘mare nostrum’ policy. but solidarity should also be with the countries that welcome most of the asylum seekers, like sweden. more member states should take more responsibility for more refugees, including with resettlement. the new common rules in the asylum package should be implemented by all. the time has come to change the way we look at refugees. yes, in the short term they are a cost; but in the long term, let us be honest, we need them. we do not say ‘go home’; we say ‘go to work’. integration has to go hand in hand with asylum, and i am proud that europe is a humanitarian superpower. we should continue to protect people fleeing from war and terror.
madam president, i would like to thank you. when we talk about international organized crime, we make a clear distinction between human smuggling, which is the subject of this discussion, and human trafficking and trafficking in human beings. the most important difference is in how we view the victims. we have made progress in combating trafficking in human beings and protecting those who fall victim to such trafficking. there is a european convention and an eu directive that sets a common standard. however, it does not seem to be in the interest of the european union to discuss how to protect victims of human trafficking. there is a huge legal and political vacuum here. the eu contributes to the exploitation of people in the mediterranean by a restrictive migration policy and by focusing on policing borders rather than on saving lives and providing protection. as a consequence of the eu's border policy, people are forced to turn to smugglers and are seen not as exploited but as illegals or even criminals themselves. this has to stop. we have to see them as victims. between 2007 and 2013, the eu spent €2 billion on strengthening the surveillance of the eu's external borders, and only €700 million on improving the situation of refugees and asylum seekers. we should redistribute resources to improve the situation of refugees and create safe routes to the eu for all. it's the only way to stop the market for human trafficking.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. there are many who argue that quotas do not work, perhaps because it is such a simple solution. companies are forced to hire skilled people, but 40 percent of them are women, and there is no shortage of skilled women. it's also about changing your perspective. either we think that women are not enough, that they do not have the necessary knowledge and experience, which is not true, or we turn it around and focus on the companies and structures there. why can't they hire women? it is now more than a year since the european parliament voted overwhelmingly in favour of the commission's proposal. since then, a minority of eu member states have blocked the proposal in the council and forced a compromise that runs counter to the original proposal and which this minority now also does not seem to accept. these countries point out that any legislation on quotas should be introduced by the member states themselves and not at eu level. i said, "fuck you". very little has happened in the member states during this year of blockade. this attitude sends a clear signal to the women of europe: we are not going to do anything to make company boards more equal a signal that there is at least a crack in the glass ceiling or that competent women do not reach the top jobs because they are women. i am offended by the council's actions. i know a lot of other women are, too. the reduction of ambition, as in the compromise of the italian presidency, by not making the 40% target binding, again underlines the patriarchal structure that governs eu gender equality policy or, rather, actively opposes the work for an equal europe. the idea that boardroom quotas are a universal solution to all gender equality problems is of course an illusion, but it is an important step along the way and sends a clear signal that gender equality is of paramount importance for the eu and our future.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we need strong legislation with binding targets to share power. that's my conviction after following this debate for many, many years. power is not voluntarily shared. it's naive to think that. those who believe that will have to wait another 100 years before they see a change. women have long acquired the necessary qualifications and the necessary education to compete effectively with men, but myths are created in society to effectively deny women power. one such myth is that there are no qualified women. there are many who wish to spread that myth. but the truth is, as i said, power is not a thing to be shared. an example, i think, is actually in this room to prove that about power. we know that we have 751 members. yet, few men choose to make this debate a priority. at first, there were only three male members here. i think that says something about how self-interest is often where the heart is and where one's priorities are. so it's time for tough legislation!
for the alde group. president. - the debate is closed. a year ago we adopted a special report on organised crime. it resulted in a number of recommendations, including a european public prosecutor's office, additional funding for europol, eurojust and frontex and implementation of the directive on the rights of victims of crime, judicial information and witness protection programmes. i now turn to the commission and the presidency to ask how far they have actually come in terms of putting all these recommendations into practice. the lisbon treaty gave us the opportunity for this improved cooperation between police and prosecutors in our member states, but we also now need to see more effective eu legislation to combat fraud and crossborder crime, such as trafficking in human beings. this can be done within the framework of europol and eurojust and a well-functioning prosecutor's office at european level. our legal systems must also be able to provide safeguards such as legal aid and protection for minors. however, everything we do must be aimed at strengthening the union's security for its citizens and be assessed against the principles of necessity and proportionality. nothing could be more important these days when we live in the shadow of what happened in france. that is why this is a very high priority.
madam president, i would like to thank you. in the last week, we've talked a lot about terror and contempt for free speech and threats to democracy. but there is another threat that comes from within, a disease that attacks the very heart of the body, that is, trust in our fellow humans and the trust of the community. corruption erodes trust in a functioning society and thus the very fabric of democracy. the eu institutions should give priority to the most important and leave a lot of other things to one side. it's not happening today. the commission should draw up an anti-corruption strategy, and we must have the courage to say what must be done and who is doing wrong. the people of europe need much stronger support from the eu institutions to push member states to make the necessary changes.
for the alde group. president. - the debate is closed. a fundamental pillar of our european rule of law is the right to have a confidential and free conversation with one's legal representative, one's lawyer. article 4 of the 2013 directive on the right to a lawyer, as well as the charter of fundamental human rights, also states this very clearly. if our intelligence services then collect information between lawyers and their clients, this fundamental principle is put at risk and, in the long run, the rule of law in the eu is undermined in a totally unacceptable way. it now appears that the dutch law firm prakken d'oliveira has been under surveillance for a number of years by the dutch security services. there are many other similar examples in the member states. i would now like to know whether the commission and the council consider that this kind of espionage against law firms is compatible with european law, the treaties, the charter of rights and all the rights which they confer on us as citizens. because if that were the case, if you really think that this falls within the framework of national security, then i would really like to know how you define the concept of 'national security' and if you think that this should automatically lead to european citizens being deprived of their rights. now i would like to ask the following questions, first of all: what measures do the commission and the council intend to take to ensure that confidential contacts between lawyers and their clients are respected? secondly: will you take any concrete action against the netherlands? thirdly: when will you return to parliament with an acceptable definition of the concept of 'national security'?
madam president, i would like to thank you. it is never acceptable to change the borders of countries by force. it is a basic principle of international law which i and my party fully support. we are equally convinced that it is always wrong to use violence to overthrow a legitimate and democratically elected government. we want to make it clear that we are opposed to any kind of enlargement of this eu project, which has a life of its own in every respect and is now extending its tentacles towards the countries of the east. this applies whether enlargement takes the form of actual membership or of some form of association agreement. as regards the situation in ukraine, there are many different aspects to be taken into account, not least from a security policy perspective. the swedish democrats' main view is that the eu should not be enlarged under any circumstances. this is the case whether the object of enlargement is moldova, turkey or, as in this case, ukraine. we are not, as some have claimed, an admirer of putin's authoritarian russia. however, we believe that ukraine and its people should have the same right to self-determination that we demand the people of sweden should have. my question to you, madam vice-president, is this: what do you consider to be the key cause of the humanitarian suffering in ukraine?
madam president, madam vice-president, the sovereignty, independence and indeed the democracy of a great european nation are under attack – but it is more than that. the core principles upon which peace and security in europe are based are being grossly violated. helping ukraine must be an imperative for the european union. a lot has been done, but we must pursue our policies over time. the ambitions of the kremlin will foster division in our ranks and exploit every weakness. russian failure to live up to the minsk agreement shows that we must stand united and neither give into threats nor be carried by propaganda. we must stick together on sanctions. it is up to the people of ukraine to decide on their path. they did it in an impressive way in the elections in 2014, where i had the honour to be an observer, but our task is to help them confront the aggressor, rebuild their economy and strengthen their democracy. we must help ukraine implement the association agreement and support their efforts to tackle corruption. by cutting tariffs we have already been helping ukrainian exports substantially. the humanitarian crisis in the east needs instant action. millions are in desperate need of food, medical care and heating. unicef reports are staggering: 1.7 million children live in a conflict zone. children should be given special attention.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the authoritarian development of russia and the annexation of ukrainian territories are stemming the unrest in europe. president putin's lack of signs of changing his criminal behavior is serious, but not surprising in historical perspective. the finnish history book orostider in ukraine describes how the government in kiev in 1919 demanded a withdrawal of the russian troops then on ukrainian territory. the response from moscow then was the same as it is today: there are no russian troops in ukraine. history teaches us about russia's attitude to ukraine, but history also teaches us what the price of concession is against a russia whose tools are lies and violence. successful negotiations with the undemocratic russian leadership will require concerted and vigorous action by the eu. today we know that sanctions are having an effect, the currency is plunging, investors are fleeing and growth is falling. against this background, it is regrettable that the french president is now talking about relaxing sanctions policy. it's sending the wrong signal. the union's evaluation of sanctions policy is therefore an appeal to the social democrats of europe: say no to sanctions relief, do not betray the freedom struggle in ukraine.
mr president, i would like to thank you. first of all, i would like to thank jarosław wałęsa and also the members and the secretariat who have worked on this report, which is important for us all. as chairman of the committee on petitions, it is of course a great pleasure for me to congratulate the ombudsman today on the renewed confidence. i look forward to continuing our good cooperation. the role of the ombudsman is a very important part of creating a european union which can enjoy the respect and regain the trust of our citizens. as jarosław wałęsa writes in the report which i hope we will adopt very soon in this house by the largest possible majority, transparent decisionmaking processes and accountability of those who have power and responsibility are a very important cornerstone and one of the most important aspects of modern democracy. in this context, i thought i would once again raise the demand that parliament has repeatedly made to the commission, namely that it should present a full-fledged, effective administrative law for the european union. such a law would regulate simply and clearly, not only our institutions, but also the way in which all eu authorities should act towards the citizens of our member states. it was only with the legal basis introduced by the lisbon treaty that this became possible. however, this has been possible for a number of years now. i think it is high time you took advantage of this opportunity, because it could help to facilitate the ombudsman's work as well. that is why i am now confidently addressing you, commissioner timmermans, and asking you to take up this matter of an effective european administrative law urgently. our national institutions and authorities are already subject to these laws, and it is high time we had uniform rules in place at eu level too. the code of good administrative behaviour can certainly be the basis for further work in this area. in conclusion, i would like to wish the ombudsman, the commissioner and all my colleagues and our colleagues in the committee every success. i look forward to our continued cooperation in this still fairly new year.
the proposer. - mr. speaker, i have to go. despite the progress in kyrgyzstan, the country now risks joining the ranks of countries that portray gays, bisexuals and transgender people as a threat to tradition and nation. that's how you whip up the heat against a made-up enemy. we have seen this development and the trends in several other countries, for example in france, where hundreds of thousands of people took to the streets in a completely absurd protest against rainbow families, and just chanted that these families threatened tradition, nation and culture. so much violence and hatred and so little love. to find an enemy when we have so many other things that we politicians have to deal with, namely how best to live in a pluralistic society, that holds together by not oppressing any of its parts, to build something positive, a society that works, prosperity, ecological sustainability, hope, joy and why not love. to go after us, the flat and the gays, is vulgar, it's irresponsible and it violates our human rights.
mr president, many of us have been wondering why we did not vote yesterday but are voting today. statistically, wednesday is the day when most members are present, so this is a matter of democratic legitimacy. if this trend should continue – and it is absolutely possible that we will have less to vote on – i would ask parliament to assess the cost of working here when we could hold the debates somewhere else. we do not want to work less; we want to work more efficiently. (applause)
in writing. i voted yes to the resolution, even though there are problems with it. these are mainly about what is not included. unfortunately, the resolution lacks proposals on how to achieve non-military solutions. it does not mention the un in a word, even though the un is a key actor that has tried to stop the escalation, both militarily and verbally. the un, together with the osce, can help bring the parties to the negotiating table. unfortunately, we must also read almost to the end before we discuss the humanitarian situation of the ukrainian people. it is a failure, as is the attempt by this resolution to push forward a common foreign and energy policy, which should be discussed in open debates and should be up to each member state to decide on rather than being put into resolutions about a country in crisis. i am also opposed to the dominant focus on weapons and military solutions. despite these objections, i believe it is extremely important to support ukraine's path towards democracy and to condemn russia's actions in the strongest possible terms. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. - we voted in favour of the s&d resolution on the commission's work programme. the content of the resolution is largely good. at the same time, there are some writings that we cannot fully support. we do not want to see an expansion of the eu budget, for example. on the question of a common unemployment insurance system, we are not opposed to an impact assessment limited to the euro countries. we are not, however, in favour of creating such a system for the whole of the eu.
thank you, mr president. since the paris attacks about three weeks ago, we are all once again in a state of profound grief. this calls us to act together now: ensuring both the security of citizens and the preservation of an open society with respect for fundamental rights and human privacy. terrorists know no national boundaries, we know that. it is therefore high time that we, through the eu's law enforcement agencies, understood this and acted just as effectively, if not more effectively, than terrorists and criminal networks can. we know that the main problem is the exchange of information between member states, and that is what we need to tackle. we need to create a full intelligence service and we need to strengthen cooperation between law enforcement agencies on threats and exchange information on individuals and networks planning to carry out horrific attacks. we owe this to our citizens and nothing else is acceptable. both openness and security at the same time.
thank you, mr president. it has been argued in some quarters that terrorism and radicalisation are due to poverty and the lack of job opportunities for young people. if so, then greece, with youth unemployment above 50 percent, should be teeming with isis fighters and boko haram supporters. yet we have not seen a single suicide bomber in athens, and no terrorist attacks for a very long time. what does greece have instead? low immigration, a common national identity and the wisdom to express their discontent by going to the polls and electing a new government. study after study has shown that foreign terrorists generally have higher education and higher incomes than the average in their home countries. what do terrorists have in common with the anti-semitism we saw in paris? an intense hatred of the west and their new homelands and an extreme interpretation and adherence to islam. we may be able to get to some of these through labour market programmes, exit programmes, integration measures, etc., but in the long run we have to realise that there are a lot of people with a significant capacity to harm us, both inside and outside the eu, who simply do not see the world in the same way but who wholeheartedly want to maintain an islamic caliphate under strict sharia law.
mr president, there is not a single parent in europe who is not worried by the figures of europol, which speak for themselves. there are children under the age of two who are harassed and are the subject of violence on the internet. our kids live on the internet. what we are asking is just to have a debate with a resolution. we cannot deny that the problem exists, and it is a concern of the citizens of europe. we do not want to pre-empt, then, what colleagues will have to say during the debate and on the resolution. please, vote in favour of having that debate. we cannot deny that the problem exists.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the fact is, we humans have a genetic and cultural heritage that requires us to know what we're eating. most people get anxious if they're not sure exactly what's in the package. this makes an old-fashioned life extremely difficult in an age and a society where all food is well-packed in plastic bags. we can't see it, we can't smell it, we can't taste it, we can't feel anything. so it is our clear duty to make sure that information is available to our citizens. but it is also our absolute duty as legislators and elected officials to simultaneously create control systems so that we don't make lying and fraud more accessible than it is today.
mr president, i would like to thank you. much has been said, but for me the question of origin labelling of processed meat is important. when i meet parents in my home country of sweden, there are a lot of people who are concerned about the quality of the food. they worry about animal husbandry, they worry about the risks of additives and chemicals, in short, they worry about the health of their children. many have said that, but 90 percent of consumers want to have the origin labelling of processed foods. we are living in a time now where food can be transported over very long distances easily and cheaply. it's been a long time since we knew where food came from and where it was most often nearby, in our own region or country. nowadays, it's further and further removed from people's everyday lives. how can consumers easily know that they are taking account of people, animals and nature in the world we live in today? i am convinced that the origin labelling of meat is a necessary reform. it is a necessary reform in the times we live in. consumers want this power to choose. it's time we gave it to them.
madam president, i would like to thank you. without the right to strike, there is no point in negotiating trade unions and collective agreements, because there is no negotiation if one party has nothing to oppose. it will be like a football game where one team gets to run and play on their knees while the employers of the other team get to use their legs fully, at full strength. we all know how these games end. it is more than 100 years since the workers' movement began its struggle for decent conditions and fair wages. still today this fight must be fought. the problem is that employers in europe refuse to recognise the fundamental right to strike under the current ilo convention. i would like to thank commissioner thyssen for taking action on this issue - you and the governments of the member states must continue to do so. either the eu becomes a place of bitter conflict and slow development or we put an end to the new war by employers against the human right that trade union rights are all about.
mr president, i would like to thank you. many different types of action are needed to tackle the extremely high level of youth unemployment. that is why the commission's proposal is of course a good one. so far, it's been too slow. it has been difficult to get involved in the european youth initiative because the member states have been very cold-blooded, at least initially, but also because of other problems that you have when you are going to set up large projects. two reflections i have after listening to the debate: would it not be good if we could try to get the social partners - that is, trade unions and companies - to get involved not only in their own acute problems, but actually get involved in the youth initiative and to take a greater role in giving young people a place and a meaning? a second reflection is that it is also very important to think long term when it comes to youth and youth labour markets. what we are seeing now is the emergence of jobs for both young and old in some labour markets. in the united states, 10 million new jobs have been created. but what kind of job is that? we call it precarious jobs. it's texting jobs, it's zero-contract jobs, it's jobs that neither young people nor older people can ever make a living doing. we must ensure that we do not end up in the american situation now, with regard to young people, but that we also have social thoughts and assessments about investments.
author. - mr president, i will speak my own language, swedish. no, i will speak english. parliament has previously called on the commission to assess potential policy initiatives aimed at reducing the barriers to cross-border employee financial participation – so-called efp schemes – and to provide information on, and raise awareness of, the issue, as many european employees and employers, in particular smes, currently lack access to information on the legal and fiscal frameworks for efp schemes. a recent commission study recommends a five-point plan to promote employee share ownership. however, the implementation of such policies entails significant challenges, and there are risks for the employees involved. on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, i would therefore like to ask the following. how does the commission intend to promote employee financial participation in the light of parliament’s resolution? what lessons have been learned from the recent pilot project? my second question: how does the commission intend to ensure compliance with the principles set out in the 1992 council recommendation – i.e. no substitution of wages, no discrimination and no conflict with participation in decision-making? my third question: how does the commission intend to promote best practice for employee ownership schemes? fourth question: how does the commission plan to ensure employee participation and the inclusion of workers’ representatives in the planning and implementation of such schemes? fifth question: does the commission intend to develop models of strategic ownership as regards employees’ shares in eso schemes so as to serve the long-term interests of companies and their employees? sixth and last question: what measures should be taken to protect employees’ savings invested in a company, in the event of a crisis or of the company becoming insolvent, so as to avoid the double risk of employees losing their job, income and savings at the same time? a comprehensive involvement of employees and their representatives requires proper information concerning the underlying risks of joining a participation scheme and also raises questions related to taxation and labour law. how can the commission ensure that workers are not being used, that all employees obtain equal access, and that they never have to face the risk of financial ruin should the company concerned run into insolvency?
for the efdd group. president. - the debate is closed. yes, the regulations need to be updated. as it is today, the roads are very bad. i see, especially in heavy traffic, how cars from other countries easily escape the police fines by simply throwing the ticket out of the window. there's no system to get this money in, not one that works. it's important that we do something. there are several points in the report which i think are good. weight checks, for example, are great for drivers, because it's always the driver who's in charge the day you get stopped by the police. i also think that traffic controls, proportionate to the traffic, are a good incentive. we also need to reinforce the heavy-handed police team that handles the checks. one thing that i think is very important in this is that the fines should be paid on the spot as much as possible. otherwise, i think it's too easy to get away with this. it is not a problem for a professional road haulage company, for example, to ensure that the driver has a credit card, a bank card, for example, with him and can pay the fine. otherwise, the legislation will have no impact on this. it's very important. at the same time, i am also glad that we are getting to grips with the increasing problem of fake driving licences, where today you buy a driving licence on the internet and then get into a heavy lorry and drive a commercial vehicle. this is not the optimal solution for me, but it is at least a step along the way that we can build on.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it was a great and important event when we in the european parliament decided by a large majority to support and push for the recognition of palestine. but it's not enough, not yet. the israeli blockade of gaza has lasted for nearly nine years. the dramatic effect of this is that the number of refugees referred for food assistance by the un relief agency has increased from 80,000 to over 860,000 today. the economy and job creation have been crushed and the majority of the population is dependent on humanitarian aid, while humanitarian contributions have not kept pace with a growing refugee population in one of the most volatile regions in the world. on the contrary: the un relief agency now has the smallest budget in ten years. the international community is failing at this time to provide even the minimum of assistance to the people of gaza. it puts the very foundation of unrwa's operations at risk.
mr president, i would like to thank you. this may well be a defining moment in european history. i think we all see how time is running out. it is the wrong time to complain about who is to negotiate and who is to represent europe, but it is the right time to stand up persistently and patiently for peace and for the negotiations which are actually being pursued and to push russia back to the negotiating table. i also think that we should stand up for ukraine in a concrete and clear way. the osse has not been able to secure the border. i also think that it is a very important question now to the commissioner, whatever happens in minsk tomorrow: what will the commission do to ensure that we maintain the border between russia and ukraine? it cannot be russia alone that stands up for it and has control over it.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i am glad to hear that there is a commitment on the part of the commissioner on this matter. i also thought i heard that the commissioner would like to have a broad cooperation with us in parliament and would like to see a resolution on this. as sabine lösing has just mentioned, unlike previous npt reviews, there does not appear to be a resolution from this house this time. i would therefore like to urge my colleagues here to support a joint resolution, as do the groups of parties which have not yet done so. as michael gahler said, we have a broad consensus. why are we then afraid to express it and to give the commissioner the support we want to give her in this very important work? as we see it, the non-proliferation agreement is a very important issue, and it is important that we do not allow it to be watered down. we had a hearing on this last week in the committee. as i understood it at the time, the conditions are not so great for tightening the agreement. rather, it looks today as if the parties to the npt will only find themselves at the 2015 review conference unable to implement the action plan adopted in 2010. the same applies to action plans adopted before that date. so if we or the member states are not looking to put this agreement down, we are at a crucial time right now. this is at a time when our security environment in the east and south has changed dramatically for the worse and thereby also increased the risk that the weapons will actually be used. so if the eu does not get involved and is a driving force in this work, there is a very real risk that we will soon be faced with nuclear anarchy in an increasingly unstable world. i would therefore urge commissioner mogherini to do her utmost to bring about a strong and progressive common position before the review conference. it is important that the eu is a strong player in disarmament. i would also like to hear the commissioner's view on the conditions for actually tightening the agreement rather than diluting it.
for the gue/ngl group. president. - the debate is closed. female genital mutilation is a terrible form of violence against women and girls. it is true that patriarchal violence takes different forms in different contexts, but it always aims to repress women, to restrict our space in life, our sexuality, our place in public space. all violence against women and girls is traditionally, in a sense, deeply rooted in our tradition. i am strongly opposed to fgm being excluded from the wider work on violence against women. to be effective, it must be integrated into the wider work of combating all forms of violence against women and girls. so we create solidarity, feminist solidarity, for a common work where all women and girls can live a life free from violence. perhaps the most difficult of all is to see the systematic and structural patriarchal violence on which the majority culture in europe is built, with everything from the burning of witches in the past to the impunity of rapists today. even the women who are not affected are constrained indirectly, by fear and caution, a self-restraint that sneaks into our everyday lives, into our lives. violence against women and girls is a violation of human rights. that is why it is a fundamental problem of democracy. the commission must therefore come back as soon as possible with a legislative proposal on how we will combat all forms of violence against women, including genital mutilation. when is it coming?
madam president, i was here a year ago commending the commission communication on elimination of female genital mutilation. after one year, this barbaric practice still affects millions of girls around the world and in europe. we are talking about child abuse. it is a crime and it should be treated as a crime. the time has come for the member states to enforce the laws that criminalise fgm. effective prosecution and conviction of the guilty parents and the cutters are essential for prevention. to eradicate fgm in europe we need to eradicate impunity in europe. we also have a responsibility in our external action to support information, awareness-raising, education on child rights and on the medical risks of this barbaric practice that causes psychological and physical damage to the girls. we need also to support the courageous women who dare to speak out and to stand up against long-standing tradition. for example, in senegal, there is outstanding work by an ngo, tostan, which is empowering local women to themselves eradicate fgm in their own community. to be effective on the ground we need to show respect for culture, religion and tradition, but we can never ever accept that violence against children is justified by culture, tradition or religion. so, commission, please bring action into your good recommendation, with concrete measures.
madam president, i would like to thank you. female genital mutilation, which is a practice that goes back thousands of years, is a terrible practice that must be stopped and there is zero tolerance. as society modernizes, this scourge continues to plague millions of women around the world, and talking about fgm remains a major taboo, especially in areas where it is common. witnesses women affected say that the problem is not just that the body is stitched together, but that it also feels like someone is stitching your mouth shut. a global fight against fgm must therefore actively work to raise awareness of the risks of the intervention, but also through an outspoken feminist foreign policy that highlights the oppression of women in all its forms. the social democratic government in sweden, headed by margot wallström, has worked on the basis of a pronounced feminist foreign policy. this must continue and we must make sure that we support women all over the world.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the increased mobility in the world has given people very good opportunities to travel and move across borders, and that's how we build relationships between each other and form families. sometimes, unfortunately, these relationships end in divorce between parents, where a child is also taken out of a country and becomes the object of an international kidnapping. whatever has happened between the parents, the best interests of the child must always be considered in all decisions involving children. illegally removing a child is not only a criminal act it also involves a brutalization of the child psychologically, even if the parent believes that he or she is committing the act for the best interests of the child. it is therefore gratifying that more countries want to join the 1980 hague convention. through international cooperation we can ensure the speedier return of illegally abducted children.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the pnr is an important tool in the fight against terrorism which we must urgently introduce to control those who travel. in an age of terrorism and extremism, we must be able to act with strength and determination. i, and we who are sitting here, were born and raised in europe and love the democratic society our ancestors built. i will not yield an inch to the terrorists' methods of terror. i have a clear message for you: if you hate our democratic western way of life to the point of using terrorism to impose a new way of life on europe, then stay in the countries that best meet your demands. because if you don't respect the democracy our ancestors fought for for hundreds of years, you are simply not welcome in our countries. * the speaker agreed to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).
the answer ('blue card'). i don't see this as a threat to freedom. for those who have, as we say in sweden, pure flour in their bag, honest intentions and no shady intentions, there is nothing to fear from this registration either.
the groups behind the resolution voted by the european parliament today excluded the epp and ecr from working on the resolution. i therefore chose not to take part in the decision because i intended to vote for the resolution of my own group (epp). the resolution strongly condemns harsh interrogation methods, stresses the importance of respecting international law and calls on the member states to ensure full democratic control of these bodies and their activities through appropriate internal, executive, judicial and independent parliamentary control, in the light of the increased cooperation and exchange of information between the intelligence services of the countries. i support the intentions of the resolution of this parliament, which is to condemn torture as a method of interrogation. but i cannot support the resolution's call for an inquiry to be carried out by the european parliament itself. the us senate report is the united states' attempt to make a frank public statement on the cia programme and it is now up to the eu member states to draw their own conclusions from this report.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the us senate report on the use of torture by the cia. i believe that we have to take a strong stand and condemn without hesitation the use of torture. it is unfortunate, however, that in the resolution the tone and language are at times anti-american. i absolutely do not share this approach. the us is our partner and ally and i welcome that the obama administration has clearly condemned and stopped those practices. i also did not support the request for a new committee of inquiry on the alleged transportation and illegal detention of prisoners in europe by the cia, as there are already ongoing investigations in various member states.
in writing. today we voted against the joint resolution on counter-terrorism put forward by the four major political groups in this parliament. the green group has tabled its own resolution on counter-terrorism measures, which we voted for. while we are in favour of coordinated action against terrorism, we consider the joint resolution to be ineffective. the mass surveillance proposed has few known positive results. the proposals ignore more long-term preventive measures and neglect fundamental rights. to be effective, a counter-terrorism strategy should focus on targeted surveillance of suspects, ensuring that authorities have the necessary means and resources and targeting specific risks and concrete suspicions. better information exchange between these authorities is also needed. radicalisation in schools and prisons must be tackled. the joint resolution is therefore merely symbolic, giving the impression that we are giving concrete answers to the legitimate demands of the citizens to feel safe and secure.
in writing. i voted against the resolution. the overall reason for this is the resolution's clear focus on repressive and police measures. i want us to evaluate what instruments are available in the eu today before new laws and measures are proposed. i do not want the paris attacks to become the european equivalent of 9/11. the united states' 15-year war on terror has been proven a total failure. the resolution calls for a number of measures which are being taken at the expense of the integrity and democratic freedoms of the eu and which, above all, do not represent any real solutions. these include the eu-pnr. the resolution lacks a deeper understanding of how to counter radicalisation in our societies and fails to take into account at all how segregation, exclusion and increasing divisions, and islamophobia are creating fertile ground. the resolution also lacks criticism of the failure of the eu and its member states' foreign policies.
in writing. today we voted against the joint resolution on counter-terrorism put forward by the four major political groups in this parliament. the green group has tabled its own resolution on counter-terrorism measures, which we voted for. while we are in favour of coordinated action against terrorism, we consider the joint resolution to be ineffective. the mass surveillance proposed has few known positive results. the proposals ignore more long-term preventive measures and neglect fundamental rights. to be effective, a counter-terrorism strategy should focus on targeted surveillance of suspects, ensuring that authorities have the necessary means and resources and targeting specific risks and concrete suspicions. better information exchange between these authorities is also needed. radicalisation in schools and prisons must be tackled. the joint resolution is therefore merely symbolic, giving the impression that we are giving concrete answers to the legitimate demands of the citizens to feel safe and secure.
in writing. today we voted against the joint resolution on counter-terrorism put forward by the four major political groups in this parliament. the green group has tabled its own resolution on counter-terrorism measures, which we voted for. while we are in favour of coordinated action against terrorism, we consider the joint resolution to be ineffective. the mass surveillance proposed has few known positive results. the proposals ignore more long-term preventive measures and neglect fundamental rights. to be effective, a counter-terrorism strategy should focus on targeted surveillance of suspects, ensuring that authorities have the necessary means and resources and targeting specific risks and concrete suspicions. better information exchange between these authorities is also needed. radicalisation in schools and prisons must be tackled. the joint resolution is therefore merely symbolic, giving the impression that we are making concrete demands on the legitimate demands of the citizens to feel safe and secure.
in writing. - today we voted against the joint resolution on counter-terrorism measures put forward by the four major political groups in this parliament. the green group has tabled its own resolution on counter-terrorism measures, which we voted for. while we are in favour of coordinated action against terrorism, we consider the joint resolution to be ineffective. the mass surveillance proposed has few known positive results. the proposals ignore more long-term preventive measures and neglect fundamental rights. to be effective, a counter-terrorism strategy should focus on targeted surveillance of suspects, ensuring that authorities have the necessary means and resources and targeting specific risks and concrete suspicions. better information exchange between these authorities is also needed. radicalisation in schools and prisons must be tackled. the joint resolution is therefore merely symbolic, giving the impression that we are making concrete demands on the legitimate demands of the citizens to feel safe and secure.
in writing. - in the case of new surveillance and control measures, such as pnr data, it is particularly important to exercise caution and to protect personal privacy and fundamental civil rights. i voted in favour of this resolution because the text as a whole is balanced and contains clear words on the importance of proportionality and that any measures are properly investigated. but i am sceptical about some of the proposals mentioned.
mr president, i would like to thank you. people care about what they eat. that is why we have been pushing for clear information, understandable information and origin labelling of all fresh meat. it's now. however, the commission clearly shows that further labelling of ingredients is not feasible. it would increase prices by 9 percent and it would increase the administrative burden on businesses by 30 percent, and consumers are not prepared to pay for it. it is also misleading to claim that it would counteract cheating. mislabelling should be considered a crime and we need deterrent sanctions, we need stronger controls and we need to enforce the rules that exist. more rules are not the answer. my proposal is to improve the voluntary labelling system in place to increase consumer choice and the ability of businesses to profile themselves. that is why i voted against. i think there will be innovation and technology that will increase transparency and traceability, like the epr code. it is high time to bring out the real consumer voices. additional labelling does not protect consumers. i'm gonna keep saying no more food fraud.
today the european parliament voted on the origin marking of meat in processed foods. in the past, the european parliament has supported rules which meant that clear and comprehensible information and mandatory origin labelling should cover all fresh meat. these are the rules, and i stand by them. the commission has been clear that additional labelling of ingredients in processed foods is not feasible. it would raise food prices by up to 9% and the administrative burden on businesses by 30%. this would be a blow to many consumers and it is misleading to claim that it prevents fraud. mislabelling should be considered a criminal offence, to be met with deterrent sanctions, stronger controls and implementation of existing rules. i voted for the epp amendment on a voluntary labelling system, to increase consumer choice and the ability of companies to profile themselves.
in writing. we humans have a genetic and cultural heritage that makes us want to know what we are eating, so it is only natural that we become anxious about not knowing what is in the food packaging. the consumer's free, informed choice is important to us. we have therefore supported the resolution calling on the european commission to table a legislative proposal for mandatory labelling of meat in processed foods - something that 90% of european consumers say they want - especially as the resolution so clearly emphasises the need for expanded and strengthened checks to ensure that consumer information is actually accurate. we also believe, as is also reflected in the text of the resolution, that any legislative proposal must of course be practicable. a law that is not followed or that does not work could just as easily have been written in water.
madam president, i would like to thank you. you started by mentioning the recent tragedy of drowning in the mediterranean. that is also the starting point for this discussion. that's thousands of refugees dying every year on their way to europe. millions flee within the country or to neighboring countries. only a few reach europe, and not all countries here accept them. so it is imperative that all eu countries open up to provide protection for, among others, the syrian refugees. it is also essential that we all contribute humanitarian aid to the refugee camps in the vicinity. but the children are the ones who suffer the most and, as the commissioner also said, we must not let a whole generation be lost. the children in the camps need to go to school, and that is what the resolution also raises. they need to live a somewhat normal life in the midst of the disaster, but they will also need psychological support for many, many years to come and not just until the war is over. we must be prepared to do our part of that work when that time comes.
madam president, i would like to thank you. when a country wants to join the eu, we set very high standards. among other things, it must respect fundamental freedoms and rights, it must be a functioning rule of law, a functioning democracy. but the problem arises once the country is a member of the eu. the commission has therefore decided to propose a new regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a serious accident. and we can cite examples: hungary, where freedom of the media is violated and the independence of the judiciary has been curtailed; lithuania, which has adopted homophobic laws; romania, which systematically discriminates against parts of its population, namely the roma. today we impose sanctions on those member states which do not respect economic agreements, but with human rights you can do almost anything. it is time to impose sanctions on countries which restrict civil rights, and we have seen examples. alde has a full scoreboard for these rights as sophia in 't veld demonstrated. it's time to move from words to action. \ * the speaker agreed to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).
the answer ('blue card'). mr president of the council! if romanians speak their language in school, for the romanians who are roma and sit begging outside our grocery stores and outside our post offices in sweden. in my home town of uppsala last week i counted 32 people within a few hundred meters of the city begging, literally in a snowstorm, because they are systematically discriminated against in your home country.
for the alde group. president. - the debate is closed. the mediterranean is weighed down by sorrow today, as is the darkness over the waters, for today we have been struck again by a similar news which has been struck too many times. more than 300 people may have drowned when the boats sank. people are dying before our eyes despite political promises - not least at lampedusa a year and a half ago - that no one else would have to die in this way. but the tragedy is repeated over and over again, and it seems that someone else is responsible. many of us have asked our relatives who lived through world war ii: why didn't you do more to help? didn't you see the jews being persecuted? and we've been met by eyes that have been lowered: yes, we knew, but what could we do? in the same way, i'm afraid that in the future my grandchildren will ask me: did you not see in the institutions of europe that people were fleeing a burning war? didn't you know they were in the mediterranean in unseaworthy boats and so many drowned? yes, we know. but the challenges we face are common, and we must face them together. frontex should be given a mandate, they should be given the means and equipment to deal with similar operations as mare nostrum managed to do and for that we should thank italy again and again for what they did. at the same time, we should create legal, safe routes to the eu so that people do not have to be in the hands of unscrupulous smugglers and make the dangerous journey across the mediterranean. we should take in more quota refugees and offer humanitarian visas to come here and apply for asylum on the spot. in that process, we need easo. the eu should have acted long ago. our actions, but also our indifference, will judge us all one day. \ * the speaker agreed to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).
the answer ('blue card'). the commission should now come together and come up with clear, straightforward messages on how we are going to ensure that this terrible situation does not happen again. we know that almost 4,000 people have died in the mediterranean in the last year. the pope was here. he told us that the mediterranean is becoming a giant, anonymous cemetery, and i repeat: our actions, your responsibility and my responsibility, the commission's and the council's responsibility is to act. because our actions and our indifference will haunt us until people have a safe path here.
madam president, i would like to thank you. let me be clear. the eu's migration and refugee policy is a disaster. we built a fortress, and like all fortresses, people tumble over its walls. what we should be discussing here and now is how europe can take greater responsibility when we have a refugee situation that has not been worse since world war ii. instead of discussing life-saving in the mediterranean and legal asylum routes, we are discussing increased resources for frontex and eurosur. it is a shame because these two are part of this fortress europe. using the deaths in the mediterranean as leverage for more funds, more money for frontex, i think is a disgrace. i'm opposed to more money for frontex or a triton 1, 2, 3, 4. frontex is not and will never be a life-saving operation, it is a border police and a border control authority. we need an increased european responsibility for search and rescue in the mediterranean, we need legal asylum channels. we want to see a mare nostrum plus but it cannot, as the liberals have said here, be built on frontex. we did not want a frontex plus. we want a mare nostrum plus. so i ask the commission and the council: when will you come back with real measures that put an end to the deaths in the mediterranean and that are not built on the foundations of a fortified europe? * the speaker agreed to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).
blue-card answer. – i think that the cooperation between the different agencies is one thing. what we should be discussing here is the kind of activities that we have to build up and which could be an answer to the deaths in the mediterranean. frontex – and, i am sorry to say, to a limited extent easo – is not part of the answer. we want to see mare nostrum plus, not frontex plus. so, regardless of how great the coordination between these actors is, they are part of fortress europe, a fortress that is not actually saving lives but taking lives.
madam president, all member states have to meet the challenge of the growing migratory flow. it is a common challenge that requires to be dealt with together. our toolbox is limited but we need to use all the tools we have before talking about new routes. we need to increase humanitarian aid and help the neighbouring countries that are receiving millions of refugees, and support regional protection programmes. let us implement the new asylum package in full, and i would like here to call on the commission, present here today, to do everything it can to bridge the gaps. as vice-president timmermans was saying, and rightly so, we need to harmonise practices, exchange practices, and do capacity-building, and there is a lot that frontex and easo can do in this respect. they have an important role to play. but frontex and easo should be better resourced and strengthened, once again by all member states. it is unacceptable that only a few member states participate in these operations. those here who are demonising the great job that frontex is doing without offering any alternatives are just irresponsible, as people are dying. member states should also fully implement dublin, but that requires a eurodac function and again, i would like to know what the commission and the member states are doing for the thousands of asylum seekers who come unregistered, unprocessed, to countries like sweden. how can we implement dublin – which has just been revised – in these circumstances? we need also to join forces on combating the trafficking of people, and undertake increased cooperation with countries like turkey. some people here talk about fortress europe. again, it is irresponsible. we are talking about combating criminals who are smuggling women and children fleeing for their lives. the key word here is more responsibility amongst all member states, including responding to the desperate call of unhcr for a resettlement programme. i conclude by saying that we have the tools. we should be able to live up to being a humanitarian superpower if all the member states take responsibility as they should.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the sexual abuse and exploitation of children on the internet is becoming more and more serious, the victims are younger and younger, and the images are spreading around the world at a rapid pace. in 2011, we adopted the directive on combating sexual abuse of children on the internet. now the commission really has to come out with this report and identify targeted tools that are effective - not just another report, but effective means so that we can get this done. the suffering is repeated over and over again as the images are shown. we need to prepare the children for the future, because the future is tough for all of us, and the children are our future. the commission must now join with us in the european parliament in taking strong action against this heinous crime.
writer. - mr. speaker, i have to go. in the greek tragedy antigone, written by sophocles as early as 442 bc, a girl does everything to bury her brother. the theme is eternal, as old as man's life on earth. for those we love, we'd do anything, including taking them to their final resting place. today's tragedy is taking place in cyprus today, where mothers and fathers, brothers and sisters, just like antigone, are doing everything to bury their loved ones whose fate has been unknown since 1974. it is time for the turkish authorities to allow the opening of mass graves in military areas so that they can be examined, so that identification can be made and people can finally mourn their loved ones, take them to their final resting place and finally rest in peace.
in writing. i voted to set up a special committee. this is despite the fact that the proposal is far from what i would have liked to see. instead of a specific parliamentary inquiry into luxleaks with a far-reaching mandate, we now have something much more difficult: a special committee, which does not have the same powers, nor a mandate that is sufficiently far-reaching. this is the result of an agreement between the large s&d groups and the epp. they obviously want to avoid any political consequences from the revelations of the extensive tax evasion policy of large companies for which juncker, as prime minister of luxembourg, was responsible and still defends.
thank you for the floor, mr president. i would like to address myself to mr tusk and mr juncker. i'm sure you'll get tired of me asking you about your compensation, but i'll keep repeating these questions. since 1 december, mr tusk, you have been the new president of the european council and you are now working for 507 million europeans who have no idea who you are and have not voted for you. you'll be deciding many things that affect them. they pay your salary, and they will also have to pay for your enormous bonus when you leave your mission, just as they had to do for your idol, mr van rompuy, who received €730,000 when he left. in addition, he will receive a lump sum plus a lifetime pension. what worker gets these benefits? my question, mr tusk, is as follows: will you have the decency to waive this insane bonus when you leave the service? i think the taxpayers deserve an honest answer to this question, because it is their pockets that are affected.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. president. - the debate is closed. first of all, i'd like to thank marc tarabella for a fantastic job. in the last few days, on the occasion of international women's day, i have heard many people say that we have made such amazing progress in the area of gender equality. and it's really upset me, because even though we women have got the vote, and we get to drive, and we get jobs, we haven't caught up with our rights. yes, we can work part-time. the employment rate for women has only increased by 4 percent in 13 years. women are paid 16.4 percent less than men. there are few women in positions of power and decision-making. in this house, we're only 33% women. there are nine women commissioners out of 28, and only 5 per cent of the eu's chairs of the boards of directors are women. one in two women has been a victim of sexual harassment and violence. besides, women don't have the right to decide what happens to their own bodies. i'm telling you, if it was men who were having babies, it would have been natural a long time ago to let them control their own bodies. do i sound pessimistic to you? yes, we have been addressing the same problems as in the tarabella report year after year since i became a member in 2004, without any major changes from us in this house. i hope, however, that the tarabella report will be adopted tomorrow. anything else would be a disgrace. (the speaker agreed to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).
the answer ('blue card'). it's about women having the right to control their own bodies, to control their own personalities and what they want to do with their lives. i have not mentioned the word abortion, but it is about the right to contraception, for example, and the right to work. i think it is extremely important to mention this in this report.
mr president, i would like to thank you. this is the first big vote on gender equality. the report is extremely important, as it deals with women's right to economic independence, calls for strong action against wage discrimination, calls for more childcare and calls for women to live a life free from violence. much of this was also taken up by my colleague, mrs inês zuber, in last year's report. then the right hand fell. it is good to hear that there is no intention of discrediting mr tarabella's report. this report also calls for us women to have the right to our bodies and our sexuality, with access to contraception and safe abortions. a few amendments have been tabled, and let's be honest: they refer to subsidiarity, but what they want is to weaken the work of the committee on gender equality on sexual and reproductive health and rights and the right to abortion and contraception. we have our eyes on us when we vote tomorrow and rightly so. gender equality work at european level: despite jourová's claim that progress has been made, this is not the case. the statistics are against it. we must take a stand for equality, vote yes to the tarabella report without undermining it tomorrow and say yes to women's right to control our own bodies.
mr president, i would like to thank you. thank you, mr tarabella, for an excellent report. not least because it also highlights violence against women. it is completely incomprehensible that there are still people who think that a man can abuse a woman to any extent if it is within the walls of the house. but i also want to participate in that debate as a member of the committee on transport. research shows that travel patterns between men and women are very different across europe men use cars more, women use public transport and bicycles more and men make decisions about transport systems. in my role as the gender equality coordinator on the committee on transport and tourism, i am looking at how we can work on transport systems that equally respond to the transport needs of women and men. a transport policy that actively promotes gender equality is needed. a functioning and efficient transport policy is of great economic importance to europe, and if we are to increase the potential of the sector we must also have a feminist transport policy.
for the efdd group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. this is clearly a major problem affecting ordinary people in the long run, who are not getting their food shipments catered for. but we should also be absolutely clear about what it depends on. this is the result of the eu's tightening of its grip on russia. the russian side is clearly responding with this embargo, and it is not that difficult to calculate. i can also understand that member states with a farm industry operating in russia are concerned about this, but at the same time i find it difficult to believe that we in the eu will be able to change this, as the commissioner also confirms to some extent. another thing i've been thinking about a little bit: it is true that these affected companies have invested a great deal of money in special vehicles adapted for refrigerated and frozen transport. the russian embargo will also result in the loss of the majority of its transports. that's exactly what's happening in my country. now we're talking about the inside of the eu, where swedish riders have invested a lot of money in what they call "megatrucks" here. then you are out-competed by cars from other member states which drive at half the cost. if we cannot put the internal market in the eu in order, i find it very difficult to see how we can solve the problem that has arisen with russia.
for the efdd group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. as a representative of a eurosceptic group, it is clear that this is not the optimal solution for me. i would prefer to see a lot of this dealt with at national level, but it is what it is and there are good things in this, such as the blind spot - it is a big concern as a lorry driver, as i have been for 30 years. it is a very big concern that you do not see cyclists and pedestrians next to the truck in close proximity. a now design can have great advantages, in fact, for the driver. the weight check is also a good thing, because it's the driver who's hanging, too. every time you get stopped at a police checkpoint, it's the driver who bears the ultimate responsibility for how much weight you put on the truck. so i see that as a good thing, too. then i want to come to what are called 'megatruks'. it is sad to hear mr taylor standing up and running pure hate propaganda against what we call the 'megatrucks'. i'm from sweden myself. we have a country that doesn't have such a terribly extensive railway. we are totally dependent on trucks, and the most environmentally friendly option is, of course, to have as much cargo as possible on the truck. that it would destroy the infrastructure, yes, but you understand that it has to do with how many axles you have on the vehicle. if you spread the weight over more shoulders, you won't have any problems with road injuries either. and let me make a point. the trucks we have problems with in sweden during the winter period, for example, are not the so-called 'megatrucks'. it is the two-axle european tractors - the small cars from europe - that are the big concern, not the big trucks.
mr president, i would like to thank you. in sweden and finland we allow 25.25 metres of truck paths, in norway and denmark on certain routes but in the rest of europe only 18. that is why i was very concerned, and we were very concerned, when the proposal came that they should be banned throughout europe. i live in northern sweden. it would have been devastating for the forestry industry in northern sweden and northern finland. we need these equipment for the transport of timber between sweden and norway and between sweden and finland. lines that cannot be replaced by rail. it is also true that in sweden, for environmental reasons, trials are under way with even longer and heavier transport options. the more we load these cars, the fewer cars, the less emissions. i am therefore pleased that the rapporteur listened to us last spring and i thank him for that. (the speaker accepted to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
the answer ('blue card'). we need common rules in europe, but we must also be prepared for national adaptation where there is reason for it. it does in sweden because we have such long distances and we don't have railways everywhere. if we are to exploit the forest as a resource, which all of europe needs, then we also need to have sensible transport.
the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the i would like to ask mrs andersson a question. it's a massive critique of what's called "megatrucks". let me say it again. i'm from sweden. i've been working in a truck shed for 30 years as a truck driver. it is not the big lorries that we are concerned about in terms of road fatalities - it is your small cars from europe, as i like to call them. your 40-tonne, two-axle european tractors that don't really work on our road network. as for road damage, i'd like to say: do the math and see what it's all about. a 60-tonne car with 26 tires and seven axles has a ground pressure of 2,300 kilograms. a 40-ton car has 12 tires, five axles and a ground pressure of 3,300 kilograms, that is, one ton more in ground pressure per tire. which car do you think is doing the most damage to the infrastructure?
in writing. we believe that prosperity is created through free trade and fair competition. we therefore oppose the european globalisation adjustment fund on principle, which we regard as an expression of protectionism. we have accepted in the past that the fund was used as a purely emergency measure in a time of deep economic crisis, as a way of countering people's sense of hopelessness and the exclusion that follows in the wake of the crisis and that risks further reinforcing the wave of nationalism and xenophobia spreading in europe. however, in the light of the recent analysis by the swedish national audit office, which considers that the fund does indeed have a negative effect on returning to work, we believe that the fund has lost its eligibility and should not be used any more.
in writing. ‒ we believe that prosperity is created through free trade and fair competition. we therefore oppose the european globalisation adjustment fund on principle, which we regard as an expression of protectionism. we have accepted in the past that the fund was used as a purely emergency measure in a time of deep economic crisis, as a way of countering people's sense of hopelessness and the exclusion that follows in the wake of the crisis and that risks further reinforcing the wave of nationalism and xenophobia spreading in europe. however, in the light of the recent analysis by the swedish national audit office, which considers that the fund does indeed have a negative effect on returning to work, we believe that the fund has lost its eligibility and should not be used any more.
in writing. we believe that prosperity is created through free trade and fair competition. we therefore oppose the european globalisation adjustment fund on principle, which we regard as an expression of protectionism. we have accepted in the past that the fund was used as a purely emergency measure in a time of deep economic crisis, as a way of countering people's sense of hopelessness and the exclusion that follows in the wake of the crisis and that risks further reinforcing the wave of nationalism and xenophobia spreading in europe. however, in the light of the recent analysis by the swedish national audit office, which considers that the fund does indeed have a negative effect on returning to work, we believe that the fund has lost its eligibility and should not be used any more.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today. i am doing this in order to provide workers in these cases with financial support for retraining and/or other measures to find new jobs. but globalisation is not the only reason why so many jobs have been lost in the eu. the eu has decided on the destructive austerity policy itself. it has to end. we need an expansionary policy, with public and environmentally friendly investment. investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today. i am doing this in order to provide workers in these cases with financial support for retraining and/or other measures to find new jobs. but globalisation is not the only reason why so many jobs have been lost in the eu. the eu has decided on the destructive austerity policy itself. it has to end. we need an expansionary policy, with public and environmentally friendly investment. investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today. i am doing this in order to provide workers in these cases with financial support for retraining and/or other measures to find new jobs. but globalisation is not the only reason why so many jobs have been lost in the eu. the eu has decided on the destructive austerity policy itself. it has to end. we need an expansionary policy, with public and environmentally friendly investment. investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
in writing. ‒ this is not the optimal solution for me, i would prefer to be able to deal with this in a national way. but the fact is that we are now members of the eu and i have to decide based on that fact; there are some good things in this report and that is why i choose to support it.
‒ i have voted against the report. the original idea of the report was that eltifs should support socially and environmentally sustainable investments, but unfortunately that line has been lost in committee work and the trilogue. the emphasis is now on private interests, including hedge funds, and public/private projects. the original positive approach of the report has thus been lost.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today. i am doing this in order to provide workers in these cases with financial support for retraining and/or other measures to find new jobs. but globalisation is not the only reason why so many jobs have been lost in the eu. the eu has decided on the destructive austerity policy itself. it has to end. we need an expansionary policy, with public and environmentally friendly investment. investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: gender equality is fundamental to the functioning and development of society. the eu charter of fundamental human rights establishes the equal value of all people and prohibits discrimination on grounds of sex. this is to be respected by the member states and is non-negotiable. however, views on gender equality policy differ across the union between different ideologies and parties. i believe, for example, that, contrary to the belgian socialist marc tarabella, the gender quota is both wrong in substance and a breach of the principle of subsidiarity. the report deals with parental leave, although this is a matter for the member states. on the abortion issue, i share the view of my predecessor, alf svensson. abortion is an ethical dilemma and in a gender equality report such as this one, the value of protecting the foetus must also be taken into account. an own-initiative report has no legal effect and is to be regarded as an opinion of parliament. but we know that the european commission in its legislative proposals repeatedly refers to ep resolutions. when the european parliament signals a willingness to control the member states' gender equality work in detail, it is safe to speak of a backward plan. the report is a catalogue of proposals which breach the principle of subsidiarity, the ambition to take decisions as close as possible to the citizen. the christian democrats believe that healthcare policy, quotas and family policy are not matters for the eu. i have therefore voted against the report.
we voted in favour of this non-legislative resolution because it highlights, among other things, the importance of continuing to work ambitiously for gender equality in the eu and the right of women to control their own bodies. we're behind that. however, we would like to emphasise that many of these issues are being decided today and should continue to be decided at national level.
in writing. ‒ i firmly support the istanbul convention regarding the elimination of female genital mutilation (fgm), as well as the resolutionʼs call for member states to prevent domestic and sexual violence against women and girls. women must have control over their sexual and reproductive health; this includes the access to contraception and abortion, but this control must also apply to men. i acknowledge the importance of active prevention, education and information policies aimed at, amongst others, teenagers, but this must apply equally to young girls and young men. however, i do not believe that parliament should impose gender equality by using gender quotas or by promoting through campaigns that girls enter traditionally male careers. i want to underline that it is important for me that each family decides on its own work-life balance, family structure and parental leave sharing. forcing children and young people to follow educational studies based on gender or making them fight so called ʽgender stereotypesʼ, as mentioned in the resolution is, from my point of view, a violation of each individualʼs right to choose his/her personal future.
in writing. – i firmly support the istanbul convention regarding the elimination of female genital mutilation (fgm), as well as the resolutionʼs call for the member states to prevent domestic and sexual violence against women and girls. women must have control over their sexual and reproductive health; this includes access to contraception and abortion, but this control must also apply to men. i do acknowledge that active prevention, education and information policies aimed at, amongst others, teenagers are of great importance, but they must target equally young girls and young men. however, i do not believe that the ep should impose gender equality by using gender quotas or promoting through campaigns girls entering what are traditionally male careers. i want to underline that it is important for me that each family decides about its own work-life balance, family structure and parental leave sharing. forcing children and young people to follow educational studies based on gender or making them fight so-called ʽgender stereotypesʼ, as mentioned in the resolution is, from my point of view, a violation of each individualʼs right to choose his/her personal future.
in writing. i've lowered my voice. the report has been improved during the committee's consideration and i note positively that it calls for the eu to take action against social dumping and to implement social and environmental legislation at community level. the commission is invited to consider the social and employment effects of its state aid interventions, particularly in regions where unemployment is high, and to integrate that analysis into its decisions. however, the basic line is nevertheless a support for the european commission's market-liberal policy, including the belief that competition in all areas of activity is a key factor in the success of the eu's policy.
in writing. eu competition policy is a key tool for creating sustainable growth and fair conditions in the internal market. competition is in itself good, even when it comes to taxes, but of course there are limits. we must take joint and strong action against social dumping, even though social policy is and should be the responsibility of the member states in all its essential aspects. we cannot accept unfair tax competition of the kind that has occurred in the so-called luxleaks scandal. we welcome the fact that these issues are also being raised in the context of the negotiations on the new free trade agreement with the united states, and have therefore, as a political signal, supported this report, even if in some respects - for example, by requiring 'neutral media surveillance' and targeted tax measures to counter globalisation - it is somewhat more restrictive than what we as liberals and free trade supporters normally consider appropriate.
mr president, i would like to thank you. for a number of years, the use of concepts such as automatic stabilisers, i.e. investments in public welfare systems that often sustain the very largest part of domestic demand, has been considered unusual in the world. now the stabilizers are back on the map, and that's good, that's important. we also know that precarious jobs lead to an uncertain and difficult economic recovery. minimum safety for europe's workers will therefore continue to be important. strong and equal partners in the labour market will also be crucial for development. oxfam recently released a report showing that the richest 1 percent of the world's population will soon own as much as the remaining 99 percent. this brings great tensions to our societies. collective bargaining has proved to be a successful way of reducing inequalities in society. we therefore need to strengthen social dialogue. the european semester, in all its recommendations and guidelines, must promote minimum security as well as collective bargaining and its coverage. i therefore take particular note of the fact that both commissioners, both thyssen and dombrovskis, have mentioned the importance of social dialogue. we expect a lot from it.
in writing. - i voted against the guidelines. the report states that the eu budget is a tool for internal solidarity by supporting economic, social and territorial cohesion, contributing to the fight against poverty, promoting social inclusion and helping to minimise development disparities between member states. for millions of people, particularly in southern europe, who are unemployed and forced to live in poverty and misery because of the eu's austerity policies, the report's allegations are a mockery. these guidelines initiate the process for the 2016 budget. my basic criticism is that the eu budget is too large and too comprehensive. there should be major cuts. i also think it is wrong in principle for the european parliament to have power over the budget. the member states that pay the eu budget should have full say on the union's expenditure. other reasons why i am opposed to the eu budget are the costly and environmentally damaging agricultural policy, the unmanageable regional and structural funds, where there is widespread fraud, and the frontex efforts, which mean continuing to build fortress europe. these are some of the reasons why i am voting against the guidelines for the 2016 budget.
‒ we cannot support the european parliament's demand for a larger eu budget. instead of prioritising spending, the european parliament is demanding more budgetary space to meet political declarations and unpaid bills. nor can we support the own resources reform demanded by the european parliament, which in practice means giving the eu taxing rights. a larger eu budget and taxation rights are not the solution to europe's problems. structural reforms, deregulation and reduction of bureaucracy are what are strengthening the eu's competitiveness and creating the conditions for growth and jobs. we also do not support the exclusion of certain payments from the ceiling for payments in the eu's multiannual budget. dilution of budgetary requirements is unlikely to create the conditions for growth. instead, the eu must prioritise spending and focus on results and efficiency. we therefore vote against the european parliament's report on the establishment of the general guidelines for the establishment of the 2016 budget.
in writing. we swedish social democrats would like to point out that we do not share the report's positive view of the process of reforming the eu's own resources system. we do not want to see any fundamental reform. we consider the current system largely based on gni-related levies from the member states to be essentially effective and well-functioning. changing it would be inappropriate.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report. the report describes the problem of fraud and deception in the eu. a range of measures is proposed to continue the fight against this criminal activity. that's very positive. it is important that all member states work hard to put an end to fraud and cheating. i also note that the report proposes continued integration in the area of criminal law and expresses support for the european public prosecutor's office (eppo). i am critical of these points, but looking at the report as a whole, it does not change my vote. that is why i am voting in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the fight against fraud with the eu budget is crucial both for preserving budgetary discipline and for the eu's credibility. but we do not support the call for the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office. such a move would have far-reaching consequences for swedish legislation and the exercise of public authority and is not compatible with the principle of subsidiarity. that is also the conclusion reached unanimously by the swedish parliament.
in writing. - i've turned my voice down. however, i see problems with the liberal market policies imposed on the country by the eu without paying particular attention to the social consequences. i also think it is wrong for the eu to be working for montenegro's accession to nato. i would like to stress the importance of giving the people of montenegro the right to express their opinion on the eu accession process and on the question of nato membership, through a referendum. it is up to the people of montenegro to decide for themselves whether they want their country to be part of the eu and nato or not. that is why i am voting against this report.
in writing. - i've lowered my voice. but i believe that fyrom should be allowed to start negotiations with the eu, and that a country's name is its own business to decide. the report calls for the fyrom to align its economic and foreign policy with the eu, which i think is wrong. in principle, i believe that the people of fyrom should be given the right to express their opinion on the eu accession process, by means of a referendum. it is up to the people of fyrom to decide for themselves whether they want their country to be part of the eu. that is why i am voting against this report.
in writing. - i've turned my voice down. however, i see problems with the liberal market policies imposed on the country by the eu without paying particular attention to the social consequences. i also think it is wrong for the eu to demand that its foreign policy be adapted. in principle, i believe that the people of serbia should be given the right to express their opinion on the eu accession process by means of a referendum. it is up to the people of serbia to decide for themselves whether they want their country to be part of the eu or not. that is why i am voting against this report.
in writing. ‒ while i believe it is important to demonstrate that the foreign policy actions taken by russia with regard to its neighbouring european countries are completely unacceptable, nevertheless i cannot support an amendment which calls for serbia to align its foreign and security policies with that of the eu. i strongly oppose the notion that the eu should be a foreign policy actor in itself, let alone increase its sphere of influence into non-member states, which is why i choose to abstain on this vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted against amendment 4 of this text. while i believe it is important to demonstrate that the foreign policy actions taken by russia with regard to its neighbouring european countries are completely unacceptable, nevertheless i cannot support an amendment which calls for serbia to align its foreign and security policies with that of the eu. i strongly oppose the notion that the eu should be a foreign policy actor in itself, let alone increase its sphere of influence into non-member states, which is why i choose to abstain on this vote.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution. sexual abuse of children and the welfare of children must be given the highest priority, and i believe that further action is needed to combat this type of crime against children. however, i think that the gue/ngl motion for a resolution was clearer in terms of proportionality and necessity, and in particular in terms of the fundamental rights of people in relation to public authorities and internet service providers. i believe that it is absolutely necessary to make a clear division between the responsibilities of private actors (such as isps) on the one hand, and law enforcement and law enforcement agencies on the other. with this clarification, i choose to vote in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour, since it calls for more to be done to protect children online and social media. transposition of the eu directives on child protection. illegal content should be removed online. steps to stop cyber grooming.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text since it calls for more to be done to protect children online and social media. transposition of the eu directives on child protection. illegal content should be removed online. steps to stop cyber-grooming.
mr president, the murder of boris nemtsov is a tragedy for the family, but also for russia. we have every reason to be horrified not only by this assassination, but also by the developments we can see in russian society. but we need not to be horrified by russia; we need to be decisive and realistic. what we need is to be sure that we react every time democracy is reduced; every time this regime turns against its citizens. we also need do what we can in order to secure transparency for all russian citizens who need russian—language broadcasting. they need to know that those who are doing wrong are going to get the right reactions from this house and the european union.
madam president, i would like to thank you. my goal is to build a secure europe. we must be able to live together in safety and peace. unfortunately, the majority of eu member states do not act early enough when it comes to the radicalisation of young muslims, but act only when the returning jihadist has already carried out his attack and then promises to do everything to prevent the terror from striking again. madrid, london, brussels, paris, copenhagen - which city will be next? not if i have to choose. cooperating with the arab states, exchanging information and finding common security solutions is a good thing. we see the throttling of the flow of capital and arms to isis-controlled areas as a prerequisite to ending the ruthless violence of the jihadists. i do not believe, however, that we in the european parliament can resolve the conflicts between different interpretations of islam. the reform of islam must come from within. i believe in increased border security, in pnr, in increased internal security and in a functioning legal system that arrests and convicts anyone who wants to participate in terrorist acts, wars and assassinations.
for the alde group. president. - the debate is closed. i regret, as does my colleague claude moraes, that this debate is taking place when the chamber is empty, when the journalists have gone home to sleep or eat, listen to music or read a book. i regret that this important statement by the commission, perhaps the most important statement the commission has made in a very long time, is not receiving the attention it deserves. the recent anti-semitic attacks in paris and copenhagen bear witness and speak their own clear language. in my own country, sweden, where we have a fairly good reputation internationally for the protection of minorities, jews do not feel safe today. the media and opinion leaders are helping to reinforce the anti-jewish climate, and many are not taken seriously when they express concern. a swedish journalist asked a policeman in malmö some time ago what the police were doing to combat attacks on jews, such as the rabbi in malmö, who has been repeatedly beaten and subjected to physical violence. the police then responded that the rabbi is so self-sacrificing, referring to the rabbi's wearing kippah and star of david and jewish symbols. it has gone very, very far in europe when the very police force that is supposed to defend the right of every person to be who they are, sees it as a problem that someone is jewish. many jews in sweden and other european countries are afraid today. they want to leave europe. it is no longer the europe we live in. they have been met with misunderstanding and accusations. we have all failed to provide security and to protect religious freedom, and we must admit that today. it's happening right in front of our eyes. we must stop turning a blind eye to the reality facing our religious minorities today.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank mr cadec, who has tabled this resolution, who has taken the initiative. the sea bass, one of our most magnificent predatory fish, is severely depleted. today, the fishing mortality rate for sea bass is four times higher than the level that could ensure maximum sustainable yield, msy. we are talking about a fish that grows very slowly and does not reach sexual maturity until it is four to seven years old. the international council for the exploration of the sea (ices) warns that a management plan should be put in place as soon as possible and that the fishery should be reduced by 80 percent. today, the catch of sea bass is not regulated at all in the eu. there are no limits on maximum allowable catches, nor are there any quotas. the only restriction in principle in commercial fishing is a minimum of 36 cm. but commercial fishing is not the only activity. it is estimated that 25 percent of the total catch is made by recreational fishermen. the council has not been able to agree on measures. instead, the commission has been given the opportunity to apply the emergency brake and to suspend part of the trawl fishery until the end of april. it's time to take responsibility for the situation before it's too late. the commission should prepare a proposal for a management plan without delay. that management plan should take reasonable account of all catches of hake, both commercial and recreational. the fair management of a limited common resource must reasonably include all those who use it. then we'll have a government for the good of all.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is a very important resolution that we are facing, especially at this time of great turmoil around the world. i would like to go back to 1948, when the universal declaration of human rights was born as a lesson of world war and the holocaust. since then, a string of conventions has been added to enable individuals to live freely and equally in mutual respect for one another. the rights are universal and interdependent and should not be based on arbitrariness. the final declaration of the declaration forbids us as individuals, as groups and as states to actively oppose its contents. today, despite the hopes of previous generations that their mistakes will not be repeated, we actively oppose human rights both within and outside the member states every day. rights alone are no guarantee. we humans are the ones who can guarantee it. it is therefore up to us to uphold human rights. we must take action against the increasing discriminatory laws and violations against people on the grounds of sexual orientation or gender identity in europe and worldwide. human rights for women as well as for lgbtq people, refugees, migrants and children are all equally fundamental to peace and democracy. male violence against women is one of the world's greatest security problems. women's rights to education and health, and sexual and reproductive rights, are fundamental human rights. the european parliament must actively work towards the implementation of the beijing platform, adopted 20 years ago. this resolution reaffirms our determination to achieve human rights in all areas. we have made a commitment. we must stand up for what we have committed ourselves to. it's our duty.
bodil ceballos, the writer. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. as i have the opportunity to open this debate, i would like to say that my first thoughts are with all those who have been affected by the indiscriminate violence of isil and with all those who are worried at this moment that they may be the next victims or that their loved ones may soon be. i know that many people in sweden, where we have a large group of chaldeans, assyrians and syrians, are constantly worried about developments at home. i suffer with them and i understand their anxiety. this summer, mosul and the nineveh plains were emptied of their indigenous population. large parts of the cultural heritage have been destroyed and today the history of khabur is repeating itself. it is our responsibility to say that what is happening today is an international crime against humanity and that we must not allow it to continue. i am therefore very pleased that the resolution clearly identifies the various groups in the european parliament. the eu has a role to play, not least in supporting humanitarian efforts in the area in the near future and in working towards the possibility for the chaldeans, assyrians, syrians and other vulnerable groups to live, when practically possible, in a protected area on the nineveh plain where these groups have historically lived side by side in peace.
for the efdd group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the christian minority in syria and iraq knows that isis's only purpose is to kill and destroy. since february of this year, isis has been invading christian villages in the khabur valley in syria. the first attack on these villages came on february 22. since then, isis has continued to attack christians and other minorities in the area. over 350 people were arrested on february 22. several of these have been killed, others have been taken as sex slaves. 1.5 million people in the area are at risk of the same fate. the refugees have unfortunately been met by a closed turkish border and have been unable to get shelter, food or water. international assistance is therefore crucial to the survival of these refugees, but it is not enough. the governments of iraq, turkey, syria and kurdistan must act together with the un and the member states to protect christians and other minorities from the religious and cultural cleansing of isis and to guarantee safe places in the region where they can live in peace. i'm willing to fight for that.
mr president, i would like to thank you. as the initiator, i would strongly urge my colleagues in this house to vote in favour of this resolution. we are now witnessing the uprooting of a people's history of thousands of years. we see how the islamic state is deliberately carrying out ethno-religious cleansing in both iraq and syria. if it's hard for us to see the images of the islamic state's atrocities and the erosion of a people's historical heritage, we can only imagine what chaldeans, assyrians and syrians all over the world are feeling right now. there's a genocide going on. already in september, i and the epp proposed a free zone for chaldeans, assyrians, syrians and others on the nineveh plain. it is therefore a very important signal that the european parliament is today supporting this very proposal, while stressing the need for cooperation with the regional and local protection forces currently fighting the islamic state.
in writing. ‒ while i do condemn the murder of boris nemtsov in the strongest possible terms and hope that the perpetrators of this awful crime will feel the full weight of justice, i wish to make it very clear that i object to what i see as the emergence of a separate eu foreign policy which, inter alia, calls for the russian federation to take certain actions. in my view, the eu has no right to call for any other countries to make any changes to their domestic policies whatsoever. nevertheless, i chose to support this motion in order to express my condolences to the family, friends and supporters of mr nemtsov.
in writing. ‒ while i do condemn the murder of boris nemtsov in the strongest possible terms and hope that the perpetrators of this awful crime will feel the full weight of justice, i wish to make it very clear that i object to what i see as the emergence of a separate eu foreign policy which, inter alia, calls for the russian federation to take certain actions. in my view, the eu has no right to call for any other countries to make any changes to their domestic policies whatsoever. nevertheless, i chose to support this motion in order to express my condolences to the family, friends and supporters of mr. nemtsov.
‒ i have voted against the report. in short, the report is a strategy for building the united states of europe with a common foreign policy, militarisation, nato linkage and confrontation on the agenda. the eu claims to be a 'peace project'. this report takes a very different approach. that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. - i voted for the report. most of the writing is very good. i'm particularly pleased that the right wing's attempt to weaken lgbtqi spelling failed. i would like to stress, however, that i do not support the writings on refugee and asylum policy which indirectly support the khartoum agreement, whereby the eu and the countries of the horn of africa have established cooperation in the exchange of information to stop 'irregular migration', instead of working for democracy and helping refugees, especially from eritrea.
in writing. ‒ there are many paragraphs in this text that call for action to be taken by the eu – which is something that i am against in principle. there are also other parts of this text that i do not support due to their content. however, i still chose to vote in favour of this report. this is because i consider it more important to support the principle of human rights, which is under attack in many parts of the world, than it is to oppose the growing influence of the eu or to object to individual notions of human rights that i may not support.
in writing. ‒ with this resolution the european parliament has consistently reminded all countries mentioned of their obligations under international human rights and humanitarian law. as long as this does not include automatic eu interference in domestic policies, i accept the content of the resolution. i firmly want to underline that expressing serious concerns about the humanitarian situation in a country must not, and should not imply, that parliament is arbitrarily judging or choosing sides in ongoing conflicts. concerning article 68, i also want to emphasise the importance of an appropriate and credible investigation into possible violations of international human rights law and international humanitarian law by both palestine and israel in the conflict in the gaza strip, to be fulfilled in accordance with internationals standards. parliament must direct its recommendations to both israel and palestinian actors. parliament should ensure appropriate follow-up of this particular crisis by assessing whether appropriate investigations have been conducted by both sides, not only by israel.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour, since it calls on the council to consider taking appropriate action on government crackdowns student demonstrations etc.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution since it calls on the council to consider taking appropriate action on government crackdowns student demonstrations etc. whereas president maduro has also announced bizarre alleged foreign conspiracies destabilisation plans and assassination attempts, which have been reported by the national administration several occasions.
this is marita ulvskog, the interviewer. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. one of my strongest memories of the eu election campaign last year is a phone call from a priest in sweden. she expressed her despair over the social misery that prevailed in the large parking lot outside her town. there are lines of trucks lined up, waiting for new runs. meanwhile, the drivers live in their cars. they have difficulty with food and hygiene, light fires in parking lots or warm themselves in small liquor stores in the swedish winter cold. they have no salary, no collective agreement just their waiting. this is unworthy. the agricultural industry has a major problem with unfair competition. from countries with lower wages and worse conditions, permanent domestic traffic is carried to countries with higher wages and better conditions. people are forced to work under unacceptable conditions, while serious transport companies are being shut down. most member states have collectively negotiated or statutory minimum wage scales, including for the transport sector. some member states also apply them to, for example, foreign hauliers, in terms of minimum wages and administrative requirements, such as prior authorisation, when they carry out road haulage abroad, in transit operations such as international transport or cabotage. i therefore ask the commission, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, the following questions: first, what provisions of eu and national law does the commission consider apply to truck drivers and other workers providing services while travelling through or in another member state? what is the situation regarding the terms and conditions of employment and the applicable law in the territory of the transit or host member state? to what extent may domestic rules apply to foreign transport operations? question two: what is the commission's view of such transport activities in terms of the terms and conditions of employment and the law applicable to the employment relationship at the time of the provision of the service, including the posting of workers directive and the rome i regulation? question three: what measures does the commission intend to take to protect the social rights of workers in the road transport sector? the eu's objective of achieving a deregulated internal market will never be achieved unless the commission also has the courage to recognise the problems, the very serious problems, that eu legislation has created. as the commission prepares a major review of europe's transport rules, the problems can no longer be ignored. instead of further liberalisation, measures against social dumping and unfair competition must therefore be put in place. it will be crucial to the content of the eu project, both in terms of the regulatory framework and the democratic content.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i have something that none of you, my colleagues, have here, namely 30 years of experience behind the wheel of a lorry. i know exactly what the problems are, i know why they have arisen, and i see the situation getting worse. in sweden, the market is flooded with cars driving for reimbursements that are well below the limit of what a swedish company can do. the cars are manned by drivers who may be paid as little as 500 euros a month. that, ladies and gentlemen, is what you have in two days' treatment! you even have more in your allowance than they have in a month. what is happening is scandalous and it is all happening under the protection of the eu's cabotage regulation, which is full of loopholes. what's happening on our roads is simply not decent. is minimum wage a way forward? i don't know, but swedish companies go bankrupt on a regular basis. drivers are fired, taxpayers' money is lost. fair competition is not feared, but that situation does not exist now. then you hear the defense that the drivers of the foreign cars have a salary that is completely unfair compared to what they earn in their home country. what good is that? they are not in their home country. they have a very different cost of living. the question now is what the commission intends to do to put this problem in order. some call it protectionism and nationalism when you try to protect your country's companies and employees. i call it morality and decency to demand fair conditions on our roads and in our workplaces. the social dumping must be stopped. what does the commission propose to achieve this? there must be some kind of goddamn order in the transport sector!
president-in-office of the council.– madam president, it is a privilege to address this session today, and today we are discussing an issue that goes to the heart of european values, of who we are and what we stand for. so, as we prepare to celebrate international roma day on 8 april, it is opportune to reflect on the situation of europe’s largest ethnic minority, on their circumstances, and on progress made and the challenges ahead. not only is it opportune, but it is also necessary because europe’s success in improving the situation of roma communities is a measure of our ability to promote integration and tackle social exclusion everywhere. that is why four years ago the council established the eu framework for national roma integration strategies. this framework invited member states to come forward with strategies to promote roma inclusion in four key areas – education, employment, healthcare and housing. and just over a year ago, on 9 december 2013, the council added fresh impetus to this drive by adopting a recommendation on effective roma integration measures. there has been progress. member states have stepped up their efforts and are taking action. the european parliament has been very instrumental, by keeping the topic on the agenda, by assisting with ideas and discussion, as well as by reminding the council and its member states of the need to further progress on the issue. but this is a long road and major challenges remain. it is regrettable that in 2015 many roma still live in conditions that are simply unacceptable. they still face deep poverty and social marginalisation. many lack basic access to housing and healthcare. the unemployment rate is above the eu average, and roma children are less likely to finish school. according to the eu fundamental rights agency, as many as 54% of roma still experience discrimination when looking for employment. too often, roma are the victims of prejudice, intolerance and social exclusion. joint eu and national level action is helping, but genuine progress, the sort that will help not just future generations of roma but also this generation, requires something much more fundamental than what is in place today: a change in public attitudes towards roma communities. that is far easier said than done. there are three concrete steps that we can take to improve public awareness and understanding, all of which are included in the council’s recommendation of december 2013. first, tackling prejudice and discrimination head on. this is a no-brainer and true for every group facing intolerance. we must take effective measures to combat anti-gypsyism, negative rhetoric and hate speech. we must fight against racist and stigmatising language. second, raising public awareness about roma people. as we all know, intolerance is a common product of misunderstanding. so improving understanding of roma communities, not just of the problems they face, but also of their history and rich culture, has to be part of the solution. roma culture is an inherent part of the cultural diversity of the european union. how aware, for example, are ordinary europeans of the roma genocide during the second world war? fostering public awareness of roma history and culture, especially the traumatic and tragic events of the second world war, is one of the most powerful ways in which we can support social cohesion and fight exclusion. this learning must start in our schools and universities and be nurtured across our societies. that also includes the media, which has a vital role to play. third, and perhaps most urgently, we need to empower the roma community, to give them a real platform to speak out for themselves, and to actively engage in public life as full eu citizens. these steps are key strands of the council’s recommendation of december 2013. i note with great pleasure that they are also important issues for parliament. being a politician myself, i am convinced that parliamentarians play a significant role in shaping society’s attitude. the european parliament plays a particularly important role in promoting tolerance. with international roma day almost upon us, we must celebrate the contribution made by roma to europe’s cultural and historical tapestry, and we must redouble our commitment to tackling the social and economic challenges they face. we all need to work hand-in-hand towards full eradication of discrimination, towards raising public awareness and empowering roma communities. only then can we really make progress on this pressing agenda. i will conclude by paraphrasing a famous advertisement. let us strive towards the union, which helps people help themselves!
member of the commission.– madam president, honourable members of parliament, thank you for giving me a chance to speak to you today on a subject which is often overlooked. on 2 august 1944 almost 3 000 elderly people, women and children – the remaining sinti and roma of the so-called zigeunerlager in the nazi concentration camp of auschwitz-birkenau – were murdered in the gas chambers. the atrocities against roma and sinti during the second world war must not be forgotten. this debate is a very small acknowledgement of a terrible debt. a moral debt to the roma and sinti people, wiped off the face of the earth during the second world war, and wiped from our memories after the second world war. commemorating the roma and sinti victims is our duty. and we have to remain vigilant. extremists are becoming more visible and their audience bigger. hate speech is getting louder, hate crime more frequent. europe’s old demons are attempting a comeback. we must confront them. fifteen years ago we put in place anti-discrimination directives, yet roma are still victims of discrimination. we have legislation in place combating racism and xenophobia, yet roma are still victims of racism and xenophobia. i agree that anti-gypsyism, as a specific form of racism, must be of serious concern to all of us. a lot has been done at national and european level over the past few years to foster the integration of roma. in particular, the adoption of the eu framework for national roma integration strategies in 2011 initiated a change in roma integration policies in the member states. but although we have put in place comprehensive integration strategies and made funding available, and despite our efforts to promote diversity and to highlight the benefits of roma integration, roma are still victims of economic and social exclusion and we still see very few real improvements on the ground. we need consistency and coherence in our action. the commission monitors member states’ compliance with the racial equality directive, which prohibits discrimination on grounds of racial or ethnic origin in a number of specific fields, including education. the commission is ready to take action whenever member states are found to be in breach of their duties under the directive. deeply rooted stereotypes and prejudices link roma to criminality, anti-social behaviour or benefit dependency. but how can we dismantle such stereotypes and prejudices? first, by applying the principle of equality before the law. roma are eu citizens, and as such they should enjoy the same rights and have the same duties as the rest of us. second, by ensuring equal opportunities. this is the fundamental objective behind our action – to build societies which offer equal opportunities to all, including to roma. the 2013 council recommendation on roma integration requests that member states implement measures to combat discrimination and anti-gypsyism. to be effective, fighting discrimination should be mainstreamed into all policies, including on education, employment and access to services. it starts with basic education. roma children must not be segregated. teaching roma children from socially excluded communities to read, count and write is necessary, but it is not sufficient to create that special feeling of belonging to a society. i expect the member states to raise awareness about the benefits of roma integration, both in roma communities and among the general public. they could address the inclusion problems that roma face in public curricula and teaching materials. we will carefully monitor these aspects in the member states’ reports about their implementation measures at the end of this year. there are policies and legal and financial tools in place, both at national and eu level. we need to work on their combined enforcement in order to achieve sustainable results. we need to join forces and assume our roles and responsibilities in this process. we need to ensure that the solutions are discussed and implemented at local level, since this is where the exclusion takes place. this is, at least, what i take as the main message from last week’s european platform for roma inclusion meeting. another outcome is the importance of building trust among stakeholders in roma integration at national level. therefore, national roma platforms should be set up, and we will work on this together with the national roma contact points. europe’s tragic past serves as a reminder of our duties and responsibilities towards the future. i believe our debate today will raise greater awareness and send a strong signal against anti-gypsyism and all forms of racism.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. madam president and commissioner jourová! the situation of roma in the eu member states is, as it is today, under criticism. every day we violate fundamental human rights and the fundamental values of the eu. tens of millions of people live in great exclusion every day, in all areas. discrimination, hate crime and poverty are effects of anti-gypsyism. this is based solely on roma ethnicity. anti-gypsyism, anti-gypsyism, which is directed against roma has been doing so since the early 15th century. it is time to take a strong political stand in this very urgent situation. we should be ashamed. it is not okay that people today in a modern society, because of ethnicity, still cannot have a vision of their future, but only have a daily survival strategy. as a first step in the fight against anti-gypsyism, we in this elected house are voting unanimously for a resolution on the recognition of 2 august as the day of remembrance of the genocide of the roma. this day is already being observed by the roma community. zigeunernacht between 2 and 3 august, auschwitz/birkenau was emptied of any remaining roma. at 9:00 a.m. on august 2, the list looked like this: 2,987 persons. at 9:00 on august 3rd, it was 0. witnesses say the smell and stench from the crematorium never wanted to end. during the nuremberg trials, no mention was made of roma. no roman could testify. this year marks the 70th anniversary of the liberation of the auschwitz/birkenau concentration camps. i think it's high time we gave the romans a little recognition for august 2. it is of great symbolic value for the roma of europe, but also for democracy itself. it is about recognising history and aiming for a future built on the eu's fundamental values. i would point out that this resolution has no political colour. it is the duty of all of us who stand for democratic values to vote in favour of this resolution in april.
for the verts/ale group. president. - the debate is closed. the last step in genocide is considered to be denial. it is therefore important that we now, on the eve of international roma day, speak out clearly about what has been too much minimized for too long, namely the genocide of roma during the second world war. it was the same time, the same war, the same administration, the same way into the gas chambers - whether you were roma, jewish, gay, disabled, etc. the holocaust is about all the victims of the nazi death camps. as a people without a state, the roma are found in all our countries. they are citizens like us and part of our societies, but they were never, and are not, allowed to speak for themselves. the most basic rights of roma are still being violated in many european countries. they are discriminated against and persecuted. the majority society speaks about roma and for roma. we think we know what's best for them, and we dictate their terms. we continue to divide people into categories based on ethnicity, sexual orientation, etc. that we, in 2015, 70 years after the end of the second world war, continue to treat roma as second-class citizens is not acceptable.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on financial aid from the so-called globalisation fund for people who have become unemployed after european companies have closed down. i am consistently voting against these unemployment benefits for two reasons: first, labour market policies and financial support for the unemployed should be decided on, and financed, at national level not at eu level. secondly, the fund's basic idea is that globalisation is something negative - which is not true. globalization and free trade lead to growth and peace.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. i am doing this in order to provide workers in these cases with financial support for retraining and/or other measures to find new jobs. however, i would like to stress that the widespread unemployment in the eu could be effectively combated if the austerity policies pursued for a long time by the european commission and the governments of the member states were stopped. to create new jobs in europe, a new economic policy with massive public and environmentally friendly investments is needed. investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on financial aid from the so-called globalisation fund for people who have become unemployed after european companies have closed down. i am consistently voting against these unemployment benefits for two reasons: first, labour market policies and financial support for the unemployed should be decided on, and financed, at national level not at eu level. secondly, the fund's basic idea is that globalisation is something negative - which is not true. globalization and free trade lead to growth and peace.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. i am doing this in order to provide workers in these cases with financial support for retraining and/or other measures to find new jobs. however, i would like to stress that the widespread unemployment in the eu could be effectively combated if the austerity policies pursued for a long time by the commission and the governments of the member states were stopped. to create new jobs in europe, a new economic policy with massive public and environmentally friendly investments is needed. investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
in writing. ‒ we will support the requests for waiver of immunities as in these reports. we are in favour of legal equality, the principle under which all people are subject to the same laws of justice – the fact that everyone must be treated equally under the law.
in writing. ‒ we will support the requests for waiver of immunities as in these reports. we are in favour of legal equality, the principle under which all people are subject to the same laws of justice – the fact that everyone must be treated equally under the law..
in writing. ‒ we will support the requests for waiver of immunities as in these reports. we are in favour of legal equality, the principle under which all people are subject to the same laws of justice – the fact that everyone must be treated equally under the law.
in writing. ‒ we will support the requests for waiver of immunities as in these reports. we are in favour of legal equality, the principle under which all people are subject to the same laws of justice – the fact that everyone must be treated equally under the law.
in writing. today we voted on financial aid from the so-called globalisation fund to people who have become unemployed after european companies have closed down. i am consistently voting against these unemployment benefits for two reasons: first, labour market policies and financial support for the unemployed should be decided on, and financed, at national level not at eu level. secondly, the fund's basic idea is that globalisation is something negative - which is not true. globalization and free trade lead to growth and peace.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. i am doing this in order to provide workers in these cases with financial support for retraining and/or other measures to find new jobs. however, i would like to stress that the widespread unemployment in the eu could be effectively combated if the austerity policies pursued for a long time by the european commission and the governments of the member states were stopped. to create new jobs in europe, a new economic policy with massive public and environmentally friendly investments is needed. investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
in writing. ‒ we will support the requests for waiver of immunities as in these reports. we are in favour of legal equality, the principle under which all people are subject to the same laws of justice – the fact that everyone must be treated equally under the law.
in writing. ‒ we will support the requests for waiver of immunities as in these reports. we are in favour of legal equality, the principle under which all people are subject to the same laws of justice – the fact that everyone must be treated equally under the law.
in writing. ‒ we will support the requests for waiver of immunities as in these reports. we are in favour of legal equality, the principle under which all people are subject to the same laws of justice – the fact that everyone must be treated equally under the law.
in writing. ‒ we will support the requests for waiver of immunities as in these reports. we are in favour of legal equality, the principle under which all people are subject to the same laws of justice – the fact that everyone must be treated equally under the law.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on macro-financial assistance to ukraine. ukraine is in a deep crisis and is in dire need of rapid financial support to prevent its complete collapse. at the same time, i would like to stress that several positive amendments from the gue/ngl group were unfortunately voted down in plenary. the amendments stressed that the reform agenda in ukraine cannot be limited to economic structural reforms but must also have a social dimension, ensuring the basic needs of citizens. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. let me state that it is in clear violation of international law that russia has annexed crimea. there are no excuses or mitigating circumstances for this, but violence and war will not solve this conflict. the un has stressed the need to reduce threats and to reduce political language in order to create an environment in which a political process can be launched to resolve the conflict. i therefore believe that the eu should have used this opportunity to link financial support to a consistent effort to find a peaceful solution.
in writing. ‒ it is important that european countries support the development of ukraine. let there be no doubt that we support ukraine and that we stand up for ukrainian independence. however, it must be very clear that any proposal with a view to this must not be based on continued eu enlargement. the swedish government recently (11 march) pledged to lend ukraine roughly the equivalent of eur 91 million, which we welcome.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for macro- financial assistance (mfa) to ukraine. it is important that european countries support the development of ukraine. let there be no doubt that we support ukraine and that we stand up for ukrainian independence. however, it must be very clear that any proposal with a view to this must not be based on continued eu enlargement. the swedish government recently (11 march) pledged to lend ukraine roughly the equivalent of eur 91 million, which we welcome.
‒ today the european parliament voted on the econ committee's annual tax report. the report focuses mainly on the problems of tax evasion and the importance of legal certainty and sound tax systems. but, as so often in the past, in these types of reports, a number of factual political positions are also included which are very difficult for me to digest. in this case, it concerns the financial transaction tax, the requirement of 'own resources' (eu tax), minimum tax thresholds and a general harmonisation of tax levels in the union. for obvious subsidiarity reasons, tax policy belongs to the national parliaments and not to brussels. since the present report is characterized by a conviction to the contrary, i have chosen to vote against.
in writing. - i've put my vote down. the report has some very positive aspects concerning the fight against tax evasion, especially by large companies, and strong measures to combat it. i support these writings. on the other hand, there are calls for greater tax policy coordination in general, support for the eu's market-oriented economic policies and parts of austerity policy. it forces me to lower my voice.
in the light of the recent developments in the field of the environment, the commission has proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment by the placing on the market of products containing harmful substances. the annual tax report of the european union. we moderates support the points in the report concerning measures to combat tax evasion and tax evasion. however, we consider that the report as a whole is designed to undermine the sovereignty of individual member states in the field of taxation. we are against the introduction of a european union tax on financial transactions. we do not believe that the european union should have its own taxation powers, but that taxation should remain a national competence. we therefore voted against the report on this basis.
the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the madam president, i would like to thank you. a very short question. are you saying that the traditional drinks of europe are more important to defend than all the people who die and all the children who grow up in alcohol-related homes? are the traditional drinks more important than the people who die?
for the verts/ale group. president. - the debate is closed. many of us here today want the baltic sea to be a healthy sea again. you're supposed to be able to eat cod that's been caught close by without having to worry about it disappearing. major steps have already been taken to make this a reality. after a long struggle, european politicians agreed last year that we must stop overfishing. all of us who have been involved in the fight for the eu's new fisheries law, which says that you cannot fish more than the sea can handle, are proud and want to see political action in the same direction. we're on the right track, but there's still a lot of work to do. the baltic cod is not doing well. after a few years of positive development, the number of cod is now decreasing again. the ones that do are small and skinny. this trend can be reversed if all the countries around our fragile inland sea cooperate. by reducing fishing for a number of years, we give cod a chance to recover. it is important to take a holistic approach that takes into account the interaction of all species in the sea, so that, for example, the larger predatory fish are not deprived of their food. the eu is now due to adopt a management plan for cod, haddock and plaice in the baltic sea. for us, it is clear that the plan will lead to sustainable fishing and a long-term good marine environment. we have therefore put forward proposals to keep catches of fish at levels which will allow fish stocks to grow. but not all our colleagues in the european parliament and the council of ministers agree. there are strong forces that are working against sustainable fishing. the baltic sea plan will serve as a model for future management plans in different eu sea basins. which is why it's especially important that we get it right this time.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pleasure for me to take part in this debate on indirect land use change, or iluc, as it is known in english. we are faced with a possible agreement that mitigates iluc and at the same time protects the existing industry. moreover, it also shows a clear path for advanced biofuels. this is a significant achievement, and i'm aware that it hasn't been easy. i hope you will support this agreement and that we can conclude the negotiations. i would like to express my sincere thanks to all the honourable members, including those who worked on this dossier with such conviction during the last term, and i am especially grateful to mr torvalds and his negotiating team and to mr la via for their efforts to get the dossier through to this final stage. the compromise package is the result of very close negotiations. i also thank you for the excellent cooperation and for giving the commission many opportunities to share and explain its views. the compromise package before us today is much stronger than the council's position at first reading thanks to the determination of this parliament. let me say a few words about the key elements of the compromise package. i will start with the limit on the contribution that biofuels produced from certain crops can make to the objectives of the renewable energy directive. this is known as the 'food crop biofuel ceiling'. the commission had originally proposed that this ceiling should be 5%, i.e. half of the target for renewable energy in transport. this level was chosen to protect existing production levels and thus mitigate the impact of the iluc while protecting the existing industry. the level in the undertaking package is set at 7%. it is higher than the european parliament initially proposed, but could still mitigate the iluc. in addition, other elements have been added to strengthen this roof. the commitment package seeks to foster the transition to advanced biofuels, which is very important for our future, as set out in the communication on an energy union. member states shall set an advanced biofuels target with a reference value of 0,5%. it is true that it is not a binding target, but it is also true that member states have a tight deadline to be explicit and define their level of policy ambition in relation to advanced biofuels, and this provides a clear signal to the industry, while still being realistic for member states. i hope that, together with existing initiatives such as the ner300 programme and horizon 2020, it will help to continue the development of this industry in the european union. in addition, the commitment package will improve the greenhouse gas performance of biofuels by raising the greenhouse gas savings threshold for new installations, which must operate at a savings of 60% compared to fossil fuels. the commitment package also requires fuel suppliers and the commission to report estimated iluc emissions, indicators that are based on the best available scientific information, which will improve greenhouse gas reporting and increase transparency. and the compromise package also removes an element of the council's position which the commission and parliament opposed. i am referring to the extension of the multiple accounting for advanced biofuels to the overall objectives of the renewable energy directive. this would have weakened the 2020 package, and its removal is a significant achievement. the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, lay down the criteria for the selection of the most appropriate biofuels for the purpose of the specific objectives of the union's biogas policy. the current biofuel industry is protected, while the developing advanced biofuel industry is given encouraging signals for its future. i know that not everything that was in the european parliament's first reading position is reflected in this proposal for a final agreement, but given the difficulties of this complex dossier, i think that parliament has achieved very important achievements.
for the ppe group. mr president i would also like to thank mr torvalds for the excellent work he has done on this report. i remember when i was new to this european parliament almost 11 years ago. at the time, many said that the renewable energy targets were too low. it was said that the eu was doing too little and too slowly to promote ethanol in particular. ethanol was then described as the way to heaven, and in sweden the environmental party/social democrats decided that every petrol station would have to have a special petrol pump with which to fill up with ethanol. but that was then, because now there's another sound in the groove. today, ethanol is described more as the road to hell, and in working on this report it is clear that the greens in particular, but also the socialist group, have done everything possible to water down the eu's renewable fuel targets. ethanol, it's going away, and the sooner the better. when i get home, those gas pumps are gonna be rusting. but biofuels are neither heaven nor hell, and we don't have to choose between food and fuel. you can do both. biofuels are a necessary part, i would say, of a successful climate policy, particularly in all those countries, such as sweden, where we have great need for transport. but one thing is certain, we need stable and long-term rules of the game for renewable fuels, and that is what would be at risk if this legislative report had gone wrong. so i am glad that we were able to stop the demands coming from large sections of this house, particularly from colleagues on the left and in the green group, to phase out this target and to create hard limits on the possibility of creating new advanced biofuels. this would have made it very difficult to make biofuels from the forest, among other things, but i think if we succeed in this, we have created a stable set of rules. i therefore hope that all members, especially those who dare to call themselves green, will vote in favour of the new rules, because if you do not, you are really only supporting fossil fuels.
blue-card question.– you said that we are focusing too much on biofuels in the european union. would you agree that this is the fault of the greens and their actions 10 years ago? secondly, you said that agri-biofuels are not delivering. are you aware of the fact that we have ethanol produced in europe that is third-party certified as having 90% co2 reductions? are you willing to agree that there are differences between different first-generation biofuels? thirdly, if parliament were to vote, as you will vote today, against this legislation, and if you had eur 1 billion, would you dare to invest that in the production of second-generation advanced biofuels if parliament decided, as you want, to kill the rules and definitions of how they should be produced?
member of the commission. - madam president, i should first like to thank the rapporteur, mr faria, for his constructive approach to the commission's proposal and for all his work in the negotiations with the council with a view to reaching a rapid agreement at second reading. i am also grateful for the work of the previous rapporteur, mr skylakakis, and of the other rapporteurs in the shadow of this dossier. the regulation on the monitoring, reporting and verification of co2 emissions from maritime transport is consistent with the 2030 energy and climate policy framework. shipping should not be the only economic sector not regulated in this area and should make its contribution to the fight against climate change. the introduction of transparency, based on reliable and robust data, will help to mobilise the sector's exceptional remaining potential to reduce its emissions at very low or no cost. and this means that the additional costs of monitoring, reporting and verification will undoubtedly be covered by the subsequent savings in terms of fuel consumption. i should stress that the european union's primary interest is to find global solutions to maritime emissions and that the european union will therefore continue to drive progress in the discussions within the international maritime organization. in this regard, the monitoring, reporting and verification regulation sends an important political signal ahead of the next imo committee meeting to discuss global data collection in london in may next year and also ahead of the united nations climate change conference in paris in december 2015. the commission welcomes the text presented by the council, which reflects the agreement reached in the tripartite dialogues, and which strikes a delicate balance between collecting the most relevant data for the sector and imposing the least possible administrative burden. on the one hand, the approach is kept rational by covering only co2 emissions, but on the other hand and in line with international discussions, the monitoring covers energy efficiency parameters which have incorporated important improvements agreed by the council and the european parliament. increased transparency on energy efficiency in the sector should enable the adoption of emission mitigation measures by the sector and, in addition, this regulation ensures that, in the event of an agreement on a legal framework for a future measure applicable at global level, we can adapt our monitoring system. finally, the proposed agreement - as i have already said - is a very important signal from the european union in preparation for the paris conference, indicating that we are committed to action to combat climate change and at the same time promoting further progress at international level in the case of maritime emissions, mainly within the international maritime organisation.
for the ppe group. president. - the debate is closed. shipping is the lifeblood of world trade. more than ninety percent of world trade is transported by sea. shipping is not only cost-effective, it is also, and above all, environmentally efficient, because despite accounting for such a large share of transport, it accounts for just under three per cent of global co2 emissions. nevertheless, shipping must play its part in taking climate responsibility, and i am therefore pleased that we are now taking the first step in bringing shipping into eu climate policy. i hope that this will lead to us speeding up the process under way in the international maritime organisation so that the rest of the world can follow our example. shipping needs global rules to function because it is a global industry. for me, who negotiated this on behalf of my group, it has been particularly important to ensure that the new maritime rules are cost-effective and do not reduce the competitiveness of shipping. every new burden we impose on shipping risks making the use of transport less efficient, moving things to, say, trucks, and this is particularly serious if we expect the rest of the world to follow our example. so i'm a little extra proud of two victories that i feel i've pushed for and earned in this work. the first is that we will focus on co2 and the proposal we are adopting today focuses on co2 which is the most important and most serious greenhouse gas in this context. the second is that we focus on the larger vessels, and we exclude the smaller vessels, which account for 40 percent of our fleet but only discharge 10 percent. it is crucial to make this cost-effective, and we have heard that. now sweden and other countries are pushing for the imo so that we can also bring the rest of the world with us, because all the ships in the world must take the same responsibility for the climate as european ships do after this decision.
in writing. - i've turned my voice down. the unused appropriations for 2014 are mainly carried over to the 2015 financial year. i believe that it would have been better if unused funds were returned to the member states, where they could be used for job-creating green investments in the public sector. that's why i choose to keep my voice down.
‒ i voted in favour of the report. the fitting of ecall systems based on the 112 service in vehicles is good from a road safety/life saving point of view, which i believe must be the first priority. ecall is a public service, free of charge, for all citizens, regardless of vehicle type or purchase price. however, there is a data security issue linked to this issue, but the submissions now emphasise that data collected by the ecall psaps is not transferred to third parties without the express prior consent of the person concerned. it also provides that the system shall be designed in such a way as to enable the complete and permanent erasure of the data collected. i would have preferred that there was also an on/off function, but unfortunately that amendment was not adopted.
‒ making higher education compatible and comparable within europe is important and facilitates cross-border mobility in terms of study and work. it is important to allow the bologna process to develop. at the same time, it should be mentioned that there were paragraphs in the text which i do not think should be decided at eu level, such as the increase in student fees. i nevertheless voted in favour of the report.
‒ i voted against the report because there were several paragraphs that were contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. these paragraphs express support for more public funding for the european film industry and the inclusion of more film knowledge in school curricula. the question of whether member states want to increase public funding for the film industry is of course a matter for national decision. putting eu public money, especially in times like these, into part-financing an industry that should be driven by demand is the wrong priority.
- i've lowered my voice. this own-initiative report highlights european cinema and the importance of public support for it. it describes problems in the digital age, the importance of copyright protection, and the importance of audiovisual archives. all of this is positive. but there are also articles on the importance of 'learning' from the us 'business model', as well as articles on the harmonisation of requirements and even vat rates. that's why i choose to keep my voice down.
in writing. we swedish social democrats voted in favour of the 'report on a new eu forestry strategy: for forests and the forest-based sector (2014/2223(ini)) '. the resolution reaffirms that forestry policy is a national competence and that forests have a great potential to contribute to new green jobs and innovations, in line with the eu's goal of smart and sustainable growth for all. sustainable forestry and the use of forest resources offer the eu a source of new green jobs and a response to today's climate challenges. we therefore regret the three amendments which were adopted by a very small margin. in particular, we oppose the questioning of the climate neutrality of biomass and the notion that the use of forest raw materials would have negative effects on the environment.
mr president, i welcome the commission’s agenda for the security of european citizens. first, we should not give up our fundamental freedoms and the open society. to combat terrorism, trafficking and cybercrime we need a joint and coordinated response, and cooperation with third countries; criminal networks are sophisticated and operate across borders. let us use all of the tools available: the european arrest warrant and the investigation order; let us strengthen europol, eurojust, eurodac and the schengen information system; passport checks at external borders must be improved; and the common databases must be updated with fingerprints and details of stolen and lost passports. we also need to combat the smugglers who exploit desperate migrants. let us be clear here: opening up legal ways of entry is not enough to reduce illegality and to avoid the tragedies in the mediterranean. the threat of terrorism in europe is real and foreign fighters are a reality. it is time for responsibility. we should therefore quickly adopt the eu pnr. common rules give better protection for privacy and transparency. member states will continue anyway to access the data, but with fewer safeguards. of course, short-term measures go hand-in-hand with long-term measures to prevent radicalisation, to promote integration and give access to jobs. i conclude by saying that there is a difference between fundamentalism and the religion of islam. in europe there should be zero tolerance against discrimination, hate speech and hate crime.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we have heard of italian and other examples. i would like to speak about my home country, sweden, a country with economic and social conditions that can be seen as less problematic, but also in sweden youth unemployment is very high and therefore additional support for swedish young people has been provided by the youth employment initiative. last summer, however, the then swedish government decided to use only a limited part of the aid, partly because it did not want to sit on its own state budget funds while waiting for the payment from the eu. in a country as rich as sweden, it works like that too. although this attitude has gradually changed, there are several other member states for which it has been impossible for economic reasons to take advantage of the youth initiative. the quick start money has not been in the own coffers, and this is where these new funds can play a role in getting the youth employment initiative to lead young people out of unemployment. you can't be too poor to lift your poverty. this is a chance to get some money.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group.– mr president, my thoughts this morning go to all those who have lost their loved ones, their brothers, sisters, parents, children, and my thoughts go also with admiration to all those outside this house who work every day to save lives and bring people to safety. today father mussie zerai is here. father zerai, i thank you for being with us here and for your tireless work to save fellow eritreans fleeing the dictatorship there. thank you for being with us. (applause) i think it is clear to everyone that words are no longer enough and ultimately, as has been said by earlier speakers, the response to the catastrophes in the mediterranean is about what kind of societies we are building for the future. are we going to turn people against each other – as the ppe just did – or are we going to have politics, economics, social and human rights that actually bring us into the future together? that is the choice we have to make. that is why the council conclusions, i would say to mr tusk, are nothing less than shameful because they do not focus on saving lives and opening this continent to people seeking refuge. instead they focus on keeping people away. therefore the response of this house is especially important. the resolution does in part take on things that we, as the left, have been bringing forward for 10 years – humanitarian visas and resettlement and also increasing search and rescue – but there is also a great deal missing. we cannot accept that frontex is being boosted when what we need is a mare nostrum. other colleagues will speak on specific points in the resolutions but it is clear that we, as the left, will continue to take the lead for a society that we build together and where we do not turn people against each other.
madam president, i would like to thank you. we have opened the plenary session here in strasbourg with a minute's silence to honour the memory of the many people who have lost their lives in the mediterranean. last year's frightening figure of some 3,500 people is in danger of being overwhelmed by the end of this year. now i ask the council: how many more people have to drown before the council of ministers understands that what is at stake now is not to smash the boats in which the refugees are travelling, but to actually build a system of legal and safe routes for people to come to the eu to seek asylum here. it is naive, and i would say cynical, to say that it is a matter of smashing the boats to stop this terrible tragedy unfolding on our doorstep. giving asylum to people fleeing war, conflict and abuse is not a matter of generosity. it is a duty that all 28 eu member states have committed themselves to respecting through both eu and international law. the eu has succeeded in building a monetary union. we are now on the way to building an energy union. when are we going to build a humanitarian union? increasing funding for triton and other rescue operations will not end the tragedies. now we have to establish legal and safe routes to get here, and then we also have - i would say to those on the other side of the house - an overview of who is coming and where he or she is coming from, and this is important for european security. we can then also deal with asylum applications in a predictable way. moreover, it would undermine the business models that unscrupulous traffickers exploit and profit from. it is time, madam president, to go from words to action and take european solidarity to a new level, and i mean solidarity for those who are fleeing and solidarity between the member states of the european union and the european institutions. (the speaker agreed to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).
the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the cecilia, you always talk about legal ways and you talk about applying for visas on the spot. so i'm gonna ask you a very short question here. there are a million people in libya who want to come to europe immediately. how are you going to pick who's coming, or what are you planning? how are you going to distribute this? you haven't thought. this isn't working. thanks to australia, i know.
the answer ('blue card'). president. - the debate is closed. it's very typical to get this kind of question. it is about taking on a european responsibility here, about building a european reception and, in the long term, about actually starting with the first thing we can do tomorrow - and there we can follow the austrian example in saving lives - namely that all 28 eu countries will receive quota refugees already defined and identified by the unhcr. today, 15 countries are receiving some. thirteen countries, madam president, are doing this much, and this is outrageous. this is a case where everyone has to take their share of the responsibility.
the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the president. - the debate is closed. it's striking that we have here a full-blooded communist who doesn't utter a word about human dignity. not a word in the whole speech says how we can turn the dangerous path that the mediterranean is today into a path of opportunity for those who are actually fleeing war. that was a speech against capitalism, it was a speech against humanity, it was a speech against human rights. this parliament must dare to say that we have a responsibility to have rules in place that do not allow people to die in the mediterranean.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the countless disasters in the mediterranean are a single great tragedy, which has caused thousands of deaths at sea, and unfortunately, in all honesty, this situation is largely caused by the signals policy being pursued, above all, in sweden and germany. when people crossing the mediterranean are asked where they want to seek asylum, the answer is not greece, italy or spain but, as a rule, sweden or germany. it must therefore be pointed out that sweden and the swedish government, with their irresponsible refugee and immigration policies, bear a special responsibility for what is happening. the swedish democrats are now politically in tune with the rest of the eu on this issue. the swedish democrats support the ten points of action proposed by mogherini. in fact, we not only support the points of action proposed, but also that these points are in line with what we are saying.
in writing. we swedish social democrats are against the introduction of a european prosecutor and do not believe that sweden should transfer the responsibility of the prosecutor to the eu. we also believe that the fight against corruption should be intensified, both in the member states and at eu level, with the aim of reducing the number of fraud cases against the eu budget. since we do not want to impede member states who wish to transfer the powers of the prosecutor to the eu, we decided to abstain in the final vote on the second interim report on the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office.
madam president, i would like to thank you. one of the survivors of the attack by the islamic terrorist group al-shabaab on the university of garissa in kenya says this: "the christian students were separated from the muslim students. the christian was killed on the spot". the terrorists took the lives of 147 innocent people. many had their throats cut when they couldn't recite the koran. the attack at the university of garissa is just one in a series of attacks on christian believers around the world. in all, 300 million christians are under threat today. 150,000 people die every year because of their christian faith. christian villages in the middle east are being depopulated by the advance of the islamic state. whenever fellow humans are persecuted because of their religious affiliation, it is our duty to act. let us work concretely towards the implementation of a no-confidence zone in northern iraq. let us see and acknowledge the persecution of christians wherever it occurs in the world.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the marrakesh agreement is about making exceptions to copyright for the benefit of people with visual impairments. when it comes into force, millions will have a better life, access to speech books and other formats that are adapted to them. today, such books cannot move freely across borders. for example, it is not enough to read a speech book in a country in french or english, but usually the copyright law says that each country must make its own version. this exacerbates the shortage of books in the poor countries that cannot afford to do their own reading. the marrakesh agreement will correct this. it will improve access to fiction and textbooks worldwide. but the agreement must enter into force and the eu must be involved. at the moment, ratification is stuck in the council, which, instead of proceeding with a rapid ratification, has started to quarrel over details and technicalities. all the countries in the council say they want the agreement to enter into force as soon as possible, but some countries act as if they wanted the opposite. i beg you: the marrakesh treaty must not become a battleground in the struggle between the institutions. i know there are countries that are dissatisfied with the way the european court of justice has chosen to interpret the lisbon treaty rules on the ratification of international treaties, but do not let that dissatisfaction spill over to the visually impaired of the world. the european union must ratify marrakesh as soon as possible.
madam president, i would like to thank you. expo in milan gives us the opportunity to have a broader discussion about how we're dealing with food safety, food security, and how we're dealing with antibiotics in meat production, which is a subject that some of us here are working on. but it also gives us opportunities to discuss in a broader perspective the imbalance that exists in the world, where we who are the richer part are getting bigger and bigger while many people are still starving. it also provides an opportunity to discuss the price we are willing to pay for food in the western world. we are clearly not prepared to spend more money on high-quality food, and so we are pushing a low-cost market on perhaps the most important thing we have in our lives: healthy and safe food. but at the same time, we have to make sure that we can feed all the mouths outside the rich western world. it is therefore important that we do not have a debate in these discussions about our production for the agricultural market of the future, which is hostile to technology or development.
‒ today the european parliament voted on a resolution with a view to the commission on a new alcohol strategy for the eu. a responsible alcohol policy is essential, and the social dimension of the issue is important to me. but at the same time these issues belong at national level for obviously subsidiary reasons. i nevertheless chose to vote in favour of the resolution for two reasons. firstly, the resolution addresses the need to include alcoholic products in the labelling requirements applicable to other foodstuffs. it seems unreasonable that alcohol today has a cream filling to it. secondly, there is strong support for subsidiarity in the resolution. however, i would like to stress that i am critical of the proposals to harmonise the age limits for the purchase of alcohol in the union.
madam president, i voted against the majority of my group on this point and i would therefore like to explain why i voted as i did. i have held off on this proposal because of the quotas mentioned. i do not think that the solution to the refugee situation, which is a really pressing problem, is for the commission to impose quotas on all member states unilaterally and for those countries to respect this, even if the options of the country concerned are not fully considered and when security, economic and also social problems may arise in that country. i am for solidarity, but solidarity as such is always based on voluntary agreement. it is therefore necessary that the individual member states agree with the commission on how they will help, how they will contribute to solving the refugee problem. so my aim is not to be unsolidarist, but to find voluntary action, not a unilateral decision from brussels.
madam president, i would like to thank you. no one should die in the mediterranean and at the same time there is no "quick fix". i support the resolution on migration because it is a step forward that more member states should take on greater responsibility. it is not enough that the message from parliament is clear. it is not enough to have all the institutions we have and the rules we have in common if the member states do not implement and apply them fully. member states must provide resources to frontex, to the asylum office, to the joint search and rescue operations in the mediterranean. member states must also agree on a binding distribution system to accommodate more refugees. for those who are entitled to international protection, we have a common asylum package. it must be applied. but more legal routes of entry will not combat illegal routes of entry unless we also take strong action against smugglers and traffickers who exploit migrants.
‒ i abstained from voting in the final vote. although the resolution contained clear improvements compared with the council and commission's views on asylum policy and deaths in the mediterranean, i cannot support it. it does not oppose the so-called outsourcing of eu asylum policy. the resolution also focuses on frontex, the eu's border guard service, rather than a civilian rescue operation. it also places too much emphasis on the role of the smugglers of refugees rather than on the responsibility of the eu and its member states for what is happening. i am in favour of the adoption of our amendment to remove the so-called 'swift return' and of an amendment by the green group which means that the focus must be on a robust and permanent humanitarian rescue operation. however, i cannot support a statement that contains so many bad bits. the left party continues to call for a mare nostrum 2 and the introduction of asylum visas, but a coalition of willing member states to go ahead and push for life saving and a humane refugee policy will not be able to solve this.
in writing. we swedish social democrats think it is very important that the european parliament condemns the terrible terrorist attack on the university of garissa in kenya in april this year. we therefore support the joint resolution of the european parliament, but we believe that the resolution should have been more inclusive as regards the groups who suffer persecution and violence because of their beliefs. we note with concern the increase in this type of violence in recent years and strongly condemn any form of discrimination, violence or intolerance directed against people's religious affiliation - regardless of the religious group affected.
mr president, i would like to thank you. thank you, commissioner ansip, for wanting to redress the injustices we see on the table at this moment. at the same time, i find it surprising to hear the european parliament suddenly speak with one strong voice when we know that in this house we are not always backing the digital single market. when we discuss other things that are equally important, such as getting vat rates in order, which is about ensuring that we have net neutrality, when we want to make sure that we get rid of roaming charges, when we want to make sure that we change copyright rules to make them better, more modern and to promote entrepreneurship throughout europe, then there are still many people in this house and certainly in the member states who say: no, stop and proof! however, it would be welcome if, after this debate, we could work together in the house to create the digital single market, where we do not say no to all kinds of change but ask ourselves: why is the united states better than us in the digital realm, and what do we need to do to make sure we're better than them? these are the questions that this house should be asking itself above all.
mr president, i would like to thank you. now, after the british elections, most indications are that the country will ask for a renegotiation and referendum on eu membership. it is a symptom of the serious democratic problems in the eu, which we must take seriously. marginal changes are not enough. we need a real renegotiation of the treaty. there's a lot of room for improvement. we need decentralization. we need to use the eu budget better. we need to strengthen the role of national parliaments in the decision-making process. all countries should have the right to opt out of emu. the countries that need to leave the eurozone should be given the right and help to do so. the last few years have clearly shown that the eurozone needs an exit strategy. what we need now is not a negotiation to make the eu better for one member state. what we need now is a negotiation to make europe better for everyone.
mr president, i would like to thank you. there is a direct link between the minerals used in our cell phones and the extreme sexual violence in eastern congo. denis mukwege, mentioned earlier, was awarded the sakharov prize for human rights by the parliament. and everyone applauded his fight to restore women's bodies and their dignity. but now that we have the opportunity to take a concrete political decision that can reduce these conflicts and rapes, his recommendations for mandatory certification of minerals are ignored. a mandatory certification law would prevent companies and consumers from helping to finance war and rape when we buy computers and mobile phones. i think that is what everyone out there expects from this parliament. that's what we want. the eu says it is a peace project yes, now it is up to the evidence. if you are serious, you cannot vote for the bill that is now on the table. sometimes you have to choose: the interests of big business or human rights and women's lives. me and my party group, we choose human rights and women's lives. we need a mandatory certification at all levels for all minerals.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the european union now has the opportunity to take an important step towards breaking the link between mineral extraction and the financing of armed groups. dr denis mukwege has reminded us of the enormous impact of the export of conflict minerals on the people of his country. the proposal we are now discussing concerns, among other things, mandatory legislation for refiners and importers. almost all minerals are bought by companies in europe and pass through these channels. targeting those parts of the supply chain therefore becomes a precise measure that enables companies to act ethically, while safeguarding jobs and growth. we in parliament should take a tougher stance than the commission but at the same time allow a constructive negotiation with the council, which in turn is a prerequisite for the important legislation on conflict minerals to become a reality.
mr president, it is time for europe to grab the opportunity of the digital revolution to create jobs without spending taxpayers’ money. the digital single market strategy is really welcome and now we look forward very soon to a concrete proposal that must aim at boosting an open, free and global internet. it is about creating a level playing field for our companies. it is not about creating digital sovereignty or a european cloud. we must compete with simple, modern and clear rules, providing legal certainty and protecting integrity, not by raising walls to keep out the rest of the world. europe can never work to segment the internet. people in europe should be able to enjoy digital products regardless of where they are physically. why can you take a telephone across borders, but not the mobile services that you bought on it? fifteen years ago i started an e-commerce company and i have suffered the fragmentation that thousands of other companies are also suffering in europe. it is time to create a single market for parcel delivery, to remove the difference in vat regimes, and to harmonise further the different rules on consumer rights.
‒ i am of the opinion that the european parliament should, as a rule, waive the immunity of a member when the judicial authorities so require. exceptions shall be made only where there is a clear risk of political or personal persecution.
‒ i am of the opinion that the european parliament should, as a rule, waive the immunity of a member when the judicial authorities so require. exceptions shall be made only where there is a clear risk of political or personal persecution.
‒ i am of the opinion that the european parliament should, as a rule, waive the immunity of a member when the judicial authorities so require. exceptions shall be made only where there is a clear risk of political or personal persecution.
‒ i am of the opinion that the european parliament should, as a rule, waive the immunity of a member when the judicial authorities so require. exceptions shall be made only where there is a clear risk of political or personal persecution.
‒ on tuesday we voted on the report by mrs cora van nieuwenhuizen on the proposal for a regulation on indices used as benchmarks for financial instruments and financial contracts. we voted in favour of the report, but we want to stress that it must not be the basis for legislation which restricts or affects the freedom of the press and the right of citizens to obtain information freely.
in writing. - i have voted against the de backer report. green growth is positive and small business is necessary. the problem is that this report has embedded entirely different policy proposals in the text. the support for general deregulation, which has often been shown to undermine labour law, collective agreements and the position of trade unions on the labour market, is particularly negative. the report also proposes a new eu resource centre. but more eu bureaucratic institutions are not needed to accelerate green growth. what is needed is a new green investment policy focusing on renewable energy and a strong public welfare sector.
for the verts/ale group. president. - the debate is closed. mrs mogherini, i often agree with you, but as regards the military action which the council decided the other day to stop the smugglers, i certainly do not. militarising migration policy is the wrong way to go. the only thing we can achieve with such an operation is that people die elsewhere and that the smugglers find new routes. as long as their market exists, they will continue to profit from the misery of the people. the only way we can beat their market is to fight the root causes of people fleeing. it is better to get a resolution in the security council to stop the conflict in syria than to try to get a resolution to go into libyan waters to sink boats. it is not worthy of the nobel peace prize to look more to one's own internal interests than to work for a more peaceful development in the world around us. it is not the people who flee to us that are a security problem, but the wars in our neighbouring countries that are. secondly, as regards the reports we are discussing today, we greens believe that they are focusing too much on the military rather than the civilian. they talk more about territorial security than human security. we have a major problem with the proposal that all member states should spend 2% of their gdp on defence. quantity is not the same as quality. we can have many planes, ships, tanks and other war materials, but if we cannot afford to man them, or even staff them, there is only one winner, namely the arms industry. we are also critical of some very lazy writings which could be interpreted as meaning that even military operations should be partly financed by aid. that is paragraph 25 of the report by mr arnaud danjean. we have put forward a number of proposals for changes. we haven't gotten through much of it. we shall see how we stand tomorrow, but we will try to push through the deletions of points which we think are incorrect.
mr president, i would like to thank you. how long will the orbán government continue to send shock waves across the eu after a series of undemocratic discriminatory games and proposals, and for what time in the order are we discussing hungary today? i have to ask you, mr orbán, do you find pleasure in challenging the values and values on which this union is built? the recent moves to reinstate the death penalty and to send out forms with xenophobic questions to citizens are nothing but a provocation. hungarians are eu citizens. i assure you that there are many of us in this house who are doing everything to guarantee their fundamental rights, even if you, mr orbán, and your government are doing everything to undermine those rights. for your own reading, i would like to recommend sándor máraj, one of europe's great 20th-century writers, also hungarian. if he were alive today, he would be brought before your censorship authority. he should serve as a moral example to you, because he speaks of the fundamental value and fundamental rights of every human being. he should serve as a moral example to you and your government.
mr president, the time has come to talk about shared parental leave, not maternity leave. to support working mothers we have to involve fathers in taking responsibility for their babies, not oblige women to stay at home. that is why i welcome the commission’s intention to withdraw the proposed maternity leave directive. the way to equality would not be to have only mothers at home. the directive would be a setback, not a way forward for mothers. women should have the same rights and opportunities as men to achieve work—life balance. to improve equality for women we need to stop considering women as the sole parent responsible for children and encourage both parents to take care of their kids. ʽwhen and howʼ should not be a decision taken at european level. why? because we should respect the fact that we are different. there are major differences in europe in family policies and we cannot impose a one-size-fits-all solution of, for instance, 18 weeks mandatory leave at european level. should women be obliged to stay at home when their partners can take leave instead, as is the case in the nordic countries where they can have 480 days? it is a paradox that the swedish left and greens are now pushing for the maternity leave directive and for a separate paternity leave directive for ten days, clearly discriminating between women and men. let us leave this maternity leave directive and move forward instead to push for ending stereotypes and having parental leave.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the principle of non-discrimination on grounds of pregnancy and maternity leave has a long history in the eu. it was established in 1958. since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the recognition of the principle of non-discrimination on grounds of pregnancy and maternity leave has been further extended. despite this, discrimination against women is still very much present, both in the workplace and at home, which provides an incentive for discussing maternity leave from a broader perspective. today, the gender pay gap for the same job is 16 percent, and the gender pension gap is 39 percent. if we look at the eu27, 19 percent of all women live in poverty, and 34 percent of all single mothers of working age are at risk. in addition, women are very overrepresented in temporary and parttime employment. the situation in the eu today is forcing women to return home to do unpaid work such as child rearing and caring for relatives. european women need better, legally binding protection against discrimination on the grounds of pregnancy and maternity leave. for me this is a matter of solidarity with our sisters in europe who are now suffering setbacks in terms of economic self-determination and emancipation and participation in the labour market because of their possible pregnancy.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the eu's accession to the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities is a milestone in the human rights field. it is also very important that parliament takes an active part in the review of the implementation of the convention. that is why the resolution we are going to vote on tomorrow is of great importance. the eu clearly has a long way to go to ensure that people with disabilities can live a life on an equal footing with other people in the eu. the failure of the council to adopt a position on the 2008 commission's anti-discrimination directive effectively denies protection against discrimination against people with disabilities and other persons in vulnerable situations. i would like to make two points regarding the implementation of the convention in the eu. the first is that we must see people with disabilities as individuals of different backgrounds, cultures, genders, beliefs and ethnicities. it is therefore of the utmost importance that we pay attention to the fact that people with disabilities may also be subject to other forms of discrimination. we also need to recognise that people with disabilities have different needs in order to live an active and independent life in our society. it is not reasonable for a disability to limit a person in what others take for granted, such as where they choose to live, what education they want, where they want to work, what they want to do in their free time, what goods and services they want to use. the eu can play an important role in this by developing guidelines. however, the starting point must always be that the obstacle is in the environment and not in man.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank the commission for the european agenda on migration. i particularly appreciate the holistic view expressed. it is also very gratifying that the european parliament and the commission speak the same language. in this context, the member states leave much to be desired. what is still missing from this document is a more far-reaching vision for migration policy in europe, for example what a common european approach to asylum cases could look like to ensure the same treatment and participation. it is only together that we can make a joint effort, that is, when all countries in solidarity take their share of responsibility for those who have to flee when our world is on fire. because if all 28 countries share responsibility, then together we can provide protection for more people and at the same time guarantee the legal certainty of the asylum system. i agree with the commission that this allocation should be based on quantitative data. it is also important to take into account qualitative data such as language, culture and family ties in order to facilitate integration. it is impossible to legislate on solidarity. solidarity must be built when trust is built. i now call on the presidency of the council to take political responsibility so that the member states will stop shifting responsibility onto someone else. it is not right that six countries in the eu take the greatest responsibility for more than 80 percent of asylum seekers, while 22 countries do almost nothing at all. the commission should also take into account the experience gained in the relocation of resettled persons in its evaluation of the 2016 dublin regulation. i hope that this will be the beginning of the end of the dublin regulation and the principle of the first country of arrival. it is a failed relic of the legal situation and legal instruments of the 20th century. asylum policy in the eu today can and should be so much better when we share the responsibility. it is time to move from words to action. i welcome what the commission has done in this document, and it is great that the european parliament and the commission are speaking the same language. now the member states must deliver!
mr president, i would like to thank you. i don't want to build walls. i want to build refugee camps, field hospitals and schools for the children. i want us to work for peace in syria and iraq. i am convinced that people are better off staying in the immediate area and knowing that they can return home when the opportunity arises. i support the principle that each member state of the eu should have an unrestricted right to decide who is to stay on its territory, an unrestricted right to protect its population from terrorism and an unrestricted right to safeguard its social system, its democracy and its welfare system. i would like to stress that each nation state must be respected and that supranational decisions must not conflict with the rights, freedoms and legislation of the respective nation state. forced relocation of refugees within the member states is contrary to the right of nations to self-determination. i want to protect sweden as a nation and its citizens. i am a swedish politician and i am in the eu on swedish mandate. my first priority will always be sweden.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the commissioners said that we are in an emergency situation which must be dealt with now. i am saying, however, that we cannot only put out fires, but we must also prevent them from spreading. sending the military to stop people smugglers is short-term thinking and only leads to smugglers finding other routes and people dying somewhere else along the way. as long as there is a market for smugglers, they will find new and more dangerous routes. i hope the un will be wiser than the council of ministers in this case. in principle, all the proposals put forward by the commission are aimed at keeping people out of europe. what i lack in the proposals is the long-term work. you talked about root causes when you talked about the long-term, but you linked it to how to stop the migrants from coming here. you said nothing about the reasons why they are leaving their countries and that we need to focus on things like climate change, poverty reduction, conflict resolution, etc. people don't come here because they want to, they come here because they have no other options. the commission has not put forward any proposals in this respect.
mr president, i would like to thank you. as usual, the far right is criticizing everything and everyone without offering any concrete and workable proposals. i'm sorry about that. no one should die in the mediterranean on the way to europe. we're going to save everyone, but we're not going to take everyone. i wholeheartedly support the commission's agenda and particularly welcome the fact that they are strengthening frontex and triton's efforts to try to save people in the mediterranean in a wider area. but more countries need to contribute and provide resources, equipment, logistics and staff to frontex, the asylum office and the refugee fund. we have common rules, an asylum package to be fully applied by all member states for a humane and lawful asylum policy. the highway to europe legally and safely is resettlement from unhcr. it is time to move from a voluntary to a binding system, and the council must agree on a distribution mechanism. it's time to go! but that's not enough. if we do not take strong action against smugglers and serious organised crime, it will not be possible to reduce irregular migration. if military means are to be used, they must be in accordance with international law, with a clear un mandate. there is no quick fix. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted. it's time for you to take on a bigger and more shared responsibility.
‒ this year's sakharov prize laureate, denis mukwege, has reminded us of the enormous impact of the export of conflict minerals on the people of his country. as the problem is particularly acute in the democratic republic of congo and the great lakes region, i have been campaigning for legislation focusing on this area as the shadow rapporteur for the epp group in the committee on foreign affairs. the epp's line is one of mandatory legislation for refiners and importers. virtually all minerals purchased by eu companies pass through these channels, and focusing on these links in the supply chain is a timely measure that lays the foundation for companies to exercise due diligence while safeguarding jobs and growth. this, together with active eu support for regional initiatives for conflict-free mineral extraction, strengthens the conditions for legitimate activities and for breaking the link between mineral extraction and the financing of armed groups. i also support this position because there are several legislative proposals that have been shelved because of disagreements between parliament and the council. almost all member states support the commission's approach to voluntary self-certification. the european parliament's taking a tougher stance than the commission is good, but a constructive negotiation with the member states is crucial for legislation on conflict minerals to become a reality.
‒ it is important that importers are required to prove that the extraction of minerals does not finance armed conflicts, but this verification must be carried out in a practical way. my line in this vote was therefore to support hard-line demands while avoiding putting a heavy administrative burden on every single trader in europe who sells goods with minerals.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i think the issue of parental leave is important. but i am concerned that some of the proposals in the debate on the minimum level of parental leave are poorly formulated, and i am concerned that the eu will impose a bad system on the member states. for example, there is a risk that discrimination against women in the labour market will be exacerbated if, instead of applying a social security model, the cost is decided to be borne by employers. this report does not, however, consist of proposals but is primarily intended to continue the debate.
‒ i voted in favour of the maternity leave directive. today's decision was to invite the council and the commission to discuss the matter and to come forward with a proposal. when this final proposal is put to parliament for decision, i will evaluate how good or bad it is and then decide how i will vote when the time is right. it would be easy for me as a swedish and eu critic to reject a directive which is so wasteful compared to our swedish system. but when i meet my sisters in many eu countries, i also have to bring up international feminism. because as soon as someone proposes paid parental leave, access to free childcare, or some job security for pregnant women, then the old-timers start to get their heads chopped off. that's why i voted yes today.
in writing. ‒ ambitious parental insurance is important, but i do not think this is an issue best dealt with at eu level. i therefore abstained from voting in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ given the circumstances of each member state, it is important for us moderates to emphasise that it is the individual countries that are best placed to combat discrimination among citizens of different countries and to ensure that the rights of all citizens are respected.
in writing. ‒ given the circumstances of each member state, it is important for us moderates to emphasise that it is the individual countries that are best placed to combat discrimination among citizens of different countries and to ensure that the rights of all citizens are respected.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on emergency measures to control the outbreak of xylella fastidiosa which has affected large parts of olive production in southern italy and parts of spain. i believe that action must be taken because this is of great importance for the safety of european consumers. xylella is highly contagious and is at risk of further spread. nevertheless, i believe that controls on imports from third countries must be risk-based and proportionate. that cannot mean that we close our borders to trade.
for the verts/ale group. president. - the debate is closed. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for her tremendous patience in trying to get through the compromises which all the groups would support, especially in view of the way opinions spread between different groups, and also between different countries. i myself come from sweden, where there is very strong political support for turkish membership. it is therefore very strange that some groups here could not accept the wording on accession, but that we have to end up with the wording on negotiations instead. my group, the green group, and i would have liked to have continued to talk about accession and not just about negotiations. although we are in favour of joining the union, we also feel it is our responsibility to criticise when things go wrong. it has obviously been doing so for some years now, for example, with regard to freedom of the media and the possibility for the opposition to act freely. yesterday, we received new information about attempts to stop critical media voices from using government communications infrastructure. this is clearly unacceptable and another in a series of restrictions on freedom of expression and the media. there's an election coming up in turkey. we hope, and the people of turkey in particular, that the elections will be free, transparent and fair, but unfortunately this does not seem to be the case, and we must be able to criticise this. another issue i would like to raise is peace with the kurds - that it is time. it is also important that aid is sent to the kurdish part of syria, to rojava. we are continually receiving information that relief shipments are being sent back, and we cannot accept that either. in the present situation, with the middle east in flames, including the turkish border, neither turkey nor the kurds have anything to gain from a continuing conflict between them. a solution to the kurdish question is essential for peaceful development in the whole region. turkey has a key role to play in this. i would also like to ask for support for our amendment no 9, which deals with the great construction boom in turkey. it has been done to a large extent at the expense of environmental and natural interests. we would like parliament's support to encourage turkey to carry out impact assessments on future projects in the same way as we do on projects here in the european union.
madam president, the european parliament is sending mixed messages to turkey. we call for the acceleration of reforms but we slow down on the prospects for membership. why should we have a say in turkey’s internal policies if we then tell them that europe will never be their home? accession negotiation is the highway to change. i share concerns regarding censorship, freedom of expression and the independence of the judiciary, but i think that opening the chapters on justice and fundamental freedom is the best way to promote democratic reforms. we should also move forward on visa liberalisation. this is not about rewarding the current government: it is about engaging long-term to build trust with the people of turkey. we must look beyond the rhetoric and actions coming from ankara now. yes, more needs to be done, but we do see some progress in the peace process with the kurdish community, dialogue with cyprus, the readmission agreement and the istanbul convention on violence against women. being punitive does not lead anywhere. let us be pragmatic. turkey is strategic for the eu. we share major challenges: migration, human trafficking, terrorism and jihadism, energy and trade. let us be clear, turkey is not ready to become a member yet, but let us give them the same chance as other candidate countries, without double standards. our uncertainty has a price, which is the undermining of pro-european consensus and policies in turkey. is it really the case that turkey is turning its back on europe? or are we turning our backs on the people of turkey? (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8)).
blue-card answer.– thank you very much. i would like to say that there has been, just in the past week, progress in confidence-building measures on resolving the conflict in cyprus. i do not think that using the fact that you are a member of the european parliament constantly just to harass and attack turkey is constructive for a long-term, fair, win-win solution for all the people of cyprus.
author.– madam president, the crisis has caused youth unemployment to reach alarming levels in many member states and regions. many young people are deprived of taking on a first job and are thus obstructed from assuming independent adult lives. in 2013, to urgently help address the situation, the youth employment initiative was adopted. the purpose of this initiative is to provide funding to promote youth employment in the most affected regions of the european union, including by establishing youth guarantee schemes. with a view to ensuring swift implementation, the youth employment initiative was front-loaded and expenditure was made eligible as of 1 september 2013. yet well over one year into the programme, the results on the ground do not meet initial expectations. measures designed to allow for a quick uptake of funds have not led to a quick and efficient mobilisation of the youth employment initiative, and opportunities to urgently address youth unemployment have been left unused. the initiative was initially proposed by the european council, yet at present – over one-and-a-half years after expenditure was made eligible – member states’ use of its resources falls far short of expectations, and progress is uneven. besides a lack of liquidity to launch the youth employment initiative, an issue now addressed by the proposed substantial increase in pre-financing, what is holding member states back? how does the council intend to urgently encourage swift and efficient implementation? the member states faced with the highest youth unemployment rates and hardest hit by the crisis are, on average, lagging behind in using youth employment initiative resources and implementing youth guarantee schemes, while long-term policies are needed to address this issue. what specific hurdles do they face? what improvements can the council promise? can the council ensure sound funding for the youth employment initiative once the frontloading funds have been used? parliament is expecting a quick, efficient and result-oriented use of the additional pre-financing within 12 months after the entry into force of the amending regulation. what measures does the council envisage in order to assure the young unemployed, and parliament, of this swift use of funds? how does it intend to report on progress to the young unemployed, to parliament, and to other stakeholders involved? can the council promise an assessment of progress six months after the entry into force of the amending regulation? how does the council intend to proceed where those results do not meet expectations, even after the current increased pre-financing?
mr president, i would like to thank you. we must remember that unemployment is not simply due to a lack of work or a lack of education. for a large group of people in the eu, unemployment is primarily about racism and discrimination. roma have always been among the most marginalised groups in the eu. in the bad times that have been, of course, it is much harder. unemployment among roma is three times higher than among the majority population. roma youth are overrepresented in the group of young people not working or studying in the eu. the member states must therefore make special efforts to support roma youth in their youth guarantees, and eu youth initiatives must also be specifically targeted at roma. this is a crucial issue if europe's young roma are to have a chance at a better life than their parents and if we are to put an end to the anti-gypsyism that exists. i hope you take it with you.
‒ i have voted against all three reports on the common defence and security policy. they are all militaristic, call for a major rearmament and emphasise the link with nato. in addition, the athena mechanism is to be strengthened to finance eu military missions, and it is argued that eu combat teams should be deployed in all types of crisis management. the eu has been described as a peace project, but this is not reflected in the reports in question, which are instead characterised by the desire to build a military force for a federal eu. as an advocate of détente and peace, i want the eu and its member states to emphasise civil peaceful strategies for conflict resolution instead. that is why i have voted against these three reports.
in writing. we swedish social democrats believe that the eu, with the resources of the member states, should contribute to preserving peace, preventing conflicts and contributing to crisis management in the region and internationally. we therefore consider it important to make the common security and defence policy more effective. but we do not support the report's consistent calls for increased european cooperation in the field of defence and for the establishment of a permanent cooperation structure that can lead to a common defence. we believe that the report fails to address the reservations against this and therefore chose not to support the report in its entirety.
‒ i have voted against all three reports on the common defence and security policy. they are all militaristic, call for a major rearmament and emphasise the link with nato. in addition, the athena mechanism is to be strengthened to finance eu military missions, and it is argued that eu combat teams should be deployed in all types of crisis management. the eu has been described as a peace project, but this is not reflected in the reports in question, which are instead characterised by the desire to build a military force for a federal eu. as an advocate of détente and peace, i want the eu and its member states to emphasise civil peaceful strategies for conflict resolution instead. that is why i have voted against these three reports.
‒ i have voted against all three reports on the common defence and security policy. they are all militaristic, call for a major rearmament and emphasise the link with nato. in addition, the athena mechanism is to be strengthened to finance eu military missions, and it is argued that eu combat teams should be deployed in all types of crisis management. the eu has been described as a peace project, but this is not reflected in the reports in question, which are instead characterised by the desire to build a military force for a federal eu. as an advocate of détente and peace, i want the eu and its member states to emphasise civil peaceful strategies for conflict resolution instead. that is why i have voted against these three reports.
in writing. ‒ the introduction of an eu army is neither timely nor desirable, but it is important to look at the security and economic benefits that can be achieved by increased cooperation and coordination between member states.
mr president, i would like to thank you. as we debate in parliament today the development aid to eritrea and highlight the human rights violations of the regime, i would like to remind you of a figure: 5 000. on tuesday 2 june, it will be 5,000 days since the arrest and imprisonment of the eu citizen dawit isaak in eritrea. since 2001, this swedish-eritrean journalist has been detained in the most appalling conditions without trial, without contact with the outside world. mr president, this is one of the most serious human rights violations to date involving sweden, and it is high time to increase the pressure on the eritrean dictatorship. the uk and canada have taken measures to prevent eritrean embassies in the west from enforcing the regime's forced taxation of citizens in exile. joint action by the eu member states in this regard could lead to a significant cut in the flow of money to the dictatorship in asmara. it would also be in response to a direct call from the un security council. let us therefore work within the eu to stop the illegal tax collection by the eritrean regime. let us work together to extend and strengthen sanctions against the dictatorship and let us link the development aid we are discussing today with clearer demands for respect for human rights. 5,000 long days have passed since dawit isaak was imprisoned. eritrea's prisons are full of other innocents, of other prisoners of conscience. the eu must now respond with firm demands and tougher measures against the regime in asmara.
mr president, i would like to thank you. both the commissioner and my swedish colleague here have spoken about dawit isaak, a swedish journalist who has been imprisoned in eritrea since 2001. 5,000 days is almost 14 years. 13 years and 246 days today, to be exact. according to amnesty, he is the only eu citizen currently imprisoned for his views. but neither pressure from the swedish government nor tacit diplomacy has helped to get dawit released. in 2009, president afwerki stated that he would not be tried or released, and that sweden was irrelevant to him in that situation. then there is the question of aid. on the swedish side we have no budgetary support for eritrea, and now you have said that on the eu side there is no budgetary support either. what does the commission intend to do to ensure that we actually get an eu citizen released from prison in eritrea?
author.– madam president, around the world, including in europe, 28 girls every minute are forced to marry. they are exposed to abuse and violence and are denied their rights to health and education. they are robbed of their childhood. the un special representative on sexual violence in conflict, zainab hawa bangura, has denounced horrible sexual abuses and organised rapes committed by daesh/isis. young girls are sold naked at the market and promised as brides at a price after recruitment. we also see an increased number of children being given in marriage in refugee camps, as desperate parents try to find a way out of poverty. i want to mention the heart-breaking story of heda, a young girl from chechnya forced to marry a man three times her age, despite her clear opposition. the life of the journalist who reported this is now under threat. just last week an international conference on child marriage was organised by the ngo girls not brides. it emerged that there are camps in countries like zambia and mozambique to initiate girls in sex and prepare them for marriage, sometimes before they turn nine. these are just a few chilling stories, but there are thousands more and none of us can remain unmoved by them. child marriage is not only a violation of children’s rights but also a form of violence against women. unfortunately, only 11 member states have ratified the council of europe’s istanbul convention on combating violence against women that recognises child marriage as a criminal offence. i therefore call on all the member states to ratify the convention and on the commission actively to encourage more member states to enforce it. we cannot close our eyes to this horrific practice. it is time to act in order to end it. we are talking about children. i am proud that the epp group took the initiative in this public debate in plenary and i warmly thank the committee on women’s rights and its chair for this report. let us join forces across political groups and at all levels to put an end to child marriage. the consequences are devastating: girls’ health is at stake, with serious risk of complications in pregnancy and childbirth, and even hiv infections; and girls are exposed to sexual abuse, domestic violence and even honour killing. it is also a question of empowerment. girls forced to marry are forced out of school, and education offers the best chance for girls to develop skills and have a role in society. keeping girls out of school is a way to condemn them to poverty and discrimination. i welcome the fact that the european external action service and the member states have made child marriage a priority in the eu action plan for human rights and democracy and the eu development cooperation gender action plan. however, progress has been slow and uneven. i therefore call on the vice-president of the commission/ high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy to implement this commitment in all the dialogues and programmes with third countries and regional organisations. the upcoming international conference on financing for development, in addis ababa in july 2015, will be a test for our leaders. child marriage should be included as a priority in the post-2015 development agenda. we need to work with law enforcement authorities, the judicial system and the police, and also to provide training and technical assistance to promote the adoption and enforcement of legislation prohibiting early and forced marriages, including a minimum age for marriage. however, this is not enough. the eu also has an important role in supporting information and awareness campaigns, and our challenge is to combat stereotypes. violence against children and women should never be justified by culture, tradition or religion, and it is time to break the vicious circle of poverty, submission and violence. we need to work together with religious communities, schools and the media to change attitudes. we need to help families and community leaders to keep girls in school and protect them from violence. let me thank the many international organisations, including unicef, and the many ngos and civil society bodies who are doing a great job. this is about girls’ dignity, and our message to the 50 million girls a year should be: ‘you are not alone.’ the european parliament will remain committed to work with all concerned to keep at the top of the eu agenda a zero tolerance policy against child marriage.
mr president, i would like to thank you. marriages in which one or both partners are children should never be recognized as legal. child marriage is, by definition, forced marriage. unfortunately, there are those who - we are talking about africa, we are talking about third countries - even within our borders. the most surprising thing is that we are sadly aware of this, but we are not ensuring that there is protection for all these girls and children who are subjected to forced marriage. the istanbul convention has committed itself to working actively against male violence against women. child marriage is a form of structural violence against women that perpetuates inequalities between men and women in society. the commission is also taking an important step in the fight against child marriage by setting out clear and concrete guidelines on how states can start acting now to stop child marriage and other forms of male violence against women. the istanbul convention is a convention that all member states should ratify. the commission is invited to launch a process for eu accession to the convention and to develop financial support for the ngos working against certain groups on these issues to raise awareness.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. first of all, i would like to thank rapporteur noichl and the other colleagues on the committee on equality for working together. for us in gue/ngl, gender equality and feminism are absolutely central to the societies we want to build and live in. it's fundamental to more just societies, to a future that values equality, that sees that our democracies today are not democratic enough, and that sees that our economies must integrate both production and reproduction. it takes quite a change to end hundreds, if not thousands, of years of patriarchal rule. so the dream of a society where it's equal is a big dream, and women's struggles for justice and equality have been marred by hardship and resistance - everything from the right to vote, the right to work, the right to inherit, the right to abortion and contraception. i'm proud and grateful for the sisters who went before me, before us who are sitting here tonight. but they will also be our benchmark, and it's amazing how much resistance there is actually left. those of us who work on these issues don't always share the same feminist strategies, but most of us are actually genuinely interested in building societies that are more equal, where girls and boys, women and men have the same opportunities and rights, and that we're stepping into the future. it's about the struggle for economic independence, the struggle for a life that is not limited by violence and the threat of violence, a society where we expand the space of life for girls and women, where girls are raised in the firm belief that the right to their own bodies and their own sexuality is theirs, not just on paper in a legal paragraph, but in real life, in real life. young women don't want to live in the europe of old men. they want a parliament here that takes action and it is a long time since the eu actually did anything to create a more equal society. legislation for a few hundred women on company boards is not really enough. this report, which we are voting on tomorrow, is not perfect but it is ambitious, as some colleagues have said. it takes a holistic approach and it has been supported and soaked in the equality committee, and civil society has been given a say. this is not about subsidiarity, this is about whether you stand up for women's rights and equality or whether you continue to be part of the old conservative resistance. tomorrow we will vote against the epp resolution and we will vote for the rapporteur's resolution from the committee on gender equality. (the speaker agreed to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).
blue-card answer.– in an equal society i would not dream of calling anyone anything, but in this society i have been fighting for women’s and girls’ equal rights for long enough, and i have met a lot of resistance. believe me: that resistance is mainly from older men, and in this chamber that is even more true. so i am not taking it anymore; i am not having it anymore. i can name something for what it is: we see a lot of male resistance to gender equality in this room, and it has to stop. i want equality in this chamber, too, by the way – quotas tomorrow!
mr president, i would like to thank you. i have given birth to three children and am not disabled to sit in the european parliament. the overall wage gap in the eu is currently 16.4% women earn 16.4% less than men despite having the same job and performing the same tasks. this injustice is due to a number of factors. it is because men have almost always occupied decision-making positions and thus controlled pay. it is because we women have long been seen as a mere means of reproduction, which makes the female worker much more unreliable than her male colleague because she is expected to bear children. the difference in treatment between men and women is not just a problem for the moment - it also poses enormous problems for the future, such as the eu pension gap now at 39%, which puts women in an unsustainable situation for life. women make up more than half of europe's population, but only 18.6% of eu board members are women and only 5% of eu board chairpersons are women. it is therefore time that we, as a first step, seriously consider what measures are needed to ensure that women have the same opportunities as men to lead companies and enterprises. at the same time, we must also dare to break the norm that values men more highly in terms of pay. and if it's not obvious to you already how important this is, just equal participation in the labor market would lead to a gdp per capita increase of 12.4 percent by 2030. what i have just briefly discussed are just a few examples of the injustices that women face daily. injustices that must be put to an end, and maria noichl's report is a good tool for that. if we do not vote for her report and the report of the femm committee, women's economic independence and emancipation will be put on hold again, as has happened so many times before.
madam president, i would like to thank you. we have credible reports that violence against women is being used as a weapon in the war in eastern ukraine sexual violence it's happening in europe today. in drawing up a european strategy for gender equality, we must first and foremost agree on zero tolerance for violence against women and girls. it is about men's violence against women, domestic violence, sexual exploitation, honor killings and much more. it is time for european legislation to be enforced to criminalise, prevent and combat these heinous crimes. the member states must implement the trafficking in persons and victims of crime directive and the european protection order. member states must adopt the council of europe's istanbul convention on violence against women. as long as violence is tolerated, we will never achieve equality. i would also like to particularly welcome the fact that outside europe nigeria has now adopted a total ban on female genital mutilation. member states should also focus on increasing women's access to employment without discrimination in order to close the still wide pay gap. it is work and economic independence that are the path to independence, especially for immigrant women. more women going to work, more women daring to start their own. it is vital for europe's economy. we must also make it easier for women to promote shared responsibility for children, so that women and men have the same opportunities to combine family and career. but maternity leave should be parental leave and family policy is a national concern. it's clear to me that women should have the right to control their own bodies. all women shall have safe access to sexual and reproductive health and rights. i regret that some greens have hijacked the issue of gender equality. we have to move beyond the old-fashioned red ideology that is stuck in the 1970s rhetoric of patriarchy and women's struggle. our women's struggle is a struggle for freedom and dignity.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i would like to start by saying that i have not been here from the beginning, but what i have heard is that there is a purely anti-feminist policy being pursued on this side and that is totally unacceptable in a modern eu in 2015. we need a new gender equality strategy that looks ahead to the future and the values we are supposed to stand for in the eu. we are not talking about legitimate discrimination on the grounds of sex, as we have been doing all along, because that is exactly what is happening: a legitimation of discrimination on the grounds of sex. if we don't want that, if we want to talk about gender equality, then we should also talk about discrimination on the basis of sex. i think the report is very good and i would like to thank you for it. it thus contains an understanding of equality that is not locked into the issue of women and men, but that focuses on the relationships that create inequality between women and men and those who do not fit into either of these categories. it is important that there should be a strategy for women's rights and gender equality in europe. i am glad that the report highlights that successful gender equality work must be based on consideration of the living conditions of different groups of women. the new gender equality strategy must aim at equality for all women, at all levels, and men in europe, including women with disabilities, women with a migrant background, lgbtq women, roma women, minorities and excluded people. i think the report puts the work on gender equality in a broader perspective of the emu. that's what they're about, it's about human rights. what one of the previous speakers said: a true policy of gender equality, while denying women the right to abortion, the right to decide about their own body, it is frightening. i think the epp has gone backwards in its own motion. they are going backwards and against what parliament has adopted in the past for a gender equality policy where we really see that women and men are equal.
blue-card question. – there is something called international law: being a member of the security council of the united nations, humanitarian law, crimes against humanity. when i was in the bosnian war, the british people – the british troops, the british government – stood up for peace in europe in a brilliant way. why, 20 years later, are you not ready to denounce an invasion with tanks, with thousands of troops from russia fighting a war in europe, with two million refugees? how would you make peace in ukraine – with your appeasement?
mr president, i would like to thank you. we are discussing today a difficult, complicated and very unfortunate subject concerning relations between russia and the european union. it is the view of my own party that military action is the wrong way to achieve a good result. the only sustainable way forward in a democratic and modern society is to have a deep and thorough dialogue with the parties involved in a conflict. in this conflict, the eu is willing to re-establish cooperation with russia, provided that the russian authorities comply with their international and legal obligations. by annexing crimea and waging war against ukraine, which is largely an act not accepted by the wider world, russia has put itself in a situation where the eu is forced to act with, among other things, sanctions as a peaceful means of pressure. in response, russia has drawn up a so-called blacklist of undesirable politicians who are now not allowed to visit russia. this is not an act worthy of a modern country and will certainly not improve russia's image in the world. people are suffering every day this conflict is going on and unfortunately people are dying too. it's just not dignified, what's happening, not at all. a democracy is based on accountability, respect for people and their lives and acceptance of people's desire for freedom. i would hereby urge russia to take this step by packing up its equipment and withdrawing from crimea. start a dialogue, and do it now.
mr president, on the point of the misunderstanding of what the sanctions imposed by president schulz were exactly, the text restricts free access to parliament to the ambassador and one other named diplomat. it is not only a german newspaper, but half of europe that misunderstood. the president would have done better to ask the legal service before formulating sanctions to impose on a third country.
mr president, let us unite in supporting this report to send a clear message: the european parliament does not accept russian aggression towards its neighbour or threats towards europe, and the kremlin propaganda will not succeed in dividing us and destabilising europe. yes, we should negotiate, but from a position of strength. and what are our strengths, colleagues? they are our economic power and our unity. therefore, i call on the member states to stand firm and united and, at the council meeting on 25 june, to renew the sanctions, as an instrument of our determination for peace in europe, until the minsk agreement is fully implemented. an attack against a member of the european parliament is an attack on the people of europe. therefore, i feel more proud than intimidated to be on the blacklist. it shows that we are doing a good job. the attempts to censor me make me more determined to speak up and to be committed to peace in europe.
mr president, first of all, congratulations to mr landsbergis on his report. i think it is important to state that we want open relations, dialogue and cooperation with russia based on respect for international law. but this is the problem. the regime of putin is breaking international law and undermining the european peace order, and he is waging war in the free nation of ukraine in europe. this is the fact and reality. no one is threatening russia. but the putin regime fears democracy, the rule of law and freedom of expression. they fear the open dialogue that we want. that is why some of us are blacklisted, because they want to blacklist freedom of expression and democracy and the open society. so let us turn this into an increased dialogue underlining sanctions for breaking international law, but an open cooperation with respect for international law.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by thanking mr landsbergis for a well-balanced report which emphasises that russia is no longer a strategic partner of the eu. let us regard this resolution as a very important starting point for the council of ministers' further discussions on the sanctions issue. he was also a member of the 'people's council' of the so-called 'donetsk people's republic'. moreover, knowing that putin has the ability to end the war in eastern ukraine would also be a victory for the strategy of violence and division that the kremlin is pursuing. it's not the eu that needs to change, it's putin that needs to change. the extension of sanctions is necessary for the sake of ukraine, for the credibility of our foreign policy and to safeguard the security rules of the game that have prevailed in europe since the second world war.
‒ today the european parliament voted on a report on the eu strategy for equality between women and men after 2015. the report contains many urgent proposals for action against, for example, violence by men against women, discrimination and the gender pay gap. but the report also contains proposals which i cannot support, for reasons of subsidiarity, among others. this is the case, for example, with compulsory quotas and family policy. as regards the literature on sexual and reproductive health, i maintain my view that the eu should respect the responsibility for health policy at national level. in substance, the christian democrats believe that there are two individuals worth protecting in a pregnancy and that it is therefore in the interest of society to reduce the number of abortions, but that the woman has the right to make the decisive decision on abortion during the first part of the pregnancy. the christian democrats believe that the state and the legislature cannot remain neutral in relation to the ethical dimension of the abortion issue. this report does not mention at all that the fetus also has a protective value. i voted, after a comprehensive assessment of the content of the report, no.
in writing. ‒ i support the eu's long-term and forward-looking gender equality strategy and i voted in favour of the resolution in the final vote. i voted against certain parts, however, which dealt with, for example, quotas and parental insurance, as i do not believe that the eu should decide in these areas. i supported other part-votes, for example on the right to abortion, but i would like to stress that this is not a legislative area at eu level.
‒ we moderates voted for the main proposals in the vote on gender equality. we are in favour of a gender equality strategy at eu level in matters where europe decides jointly. it is at eu level that we can best combat trafficking, among other things. we are opposed to the left-wing rhetoric and superficial economic theories contained in the report, which directly contradict its purpose. it is spending and deficit spending that has depleted the money that welfare needs and undermined jobs and employment. the report in many cases lacks respect for the member states and the individual's right to self-determination, which risks undermining swedish legislation on family policy, lgbtq rights and abortion rights, among other issues. these are matters that belong to the member states, and we moderates do not want to bring them up at eu level, which would as with all other eu matters force compromises with other countries and values other than those that characterize current swedish legislation.
‒ i support the eu's long-term and forward-looking gender equality strategy and i voted in favour of the resolution in the final vote. i voted against certain parts, however, which dealt with, for example, quotas and parental insurance, as i do not believe that the eu should decide in these areas. i also voted against the creation of gender studies professorships because i believe that the academic world should remain free and that politics should stay away from the self-determination of universities. i supported other part-votes, for example on the right to abortion, but i would like to stress that this is not a legislative area at eu level.
‒ i have voted against the report. the main reason is that the report is against fair world trade, because it requires poor countries in the global south to meet the high standards of intellectual property protection, or else they are denied market access. it is a trade strategy that looks only at the interests of big business in the eu, and not at the need for development and fair trade. nor has the report made any distinction between developing and least developed countries, which is a blow to the least developed countries in terms of opportunities for favourable and developing trade. the report also proposes the creation of a new eu body for these issues, which i oppose. that is the main reason why i voted no.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it is going in the wrong direction. on the part of the greens, we have put forward drafting proposals on the need to balance different rights and stressed the importance of proportionality and legal certainty. we have also included some of this in the text, but the report as a whole is problematic. in particular, it pushes for a system that violates the principle of messenger neutrality and where isps are required to monitor private individuals' mail and internet traffic.
‒ i have voted against the report. the report seeks to strengthen intellectual property rights in a way that further increases the control of the large companies in this area. the report argues, among other things, for the right of artists to protect their works. i support that too, but i don't think copyright is going to get any better if you strengthen the intellectual property rights of big companies. the report also expresses a very positive opinion on the work of the european observatory, despite criticism from many citizens and ngos for its one-sided focus on protecting the interests of companies. the fact that the report has beautiful phrases on fundamental rights is a positive thing, but it does not change the whole picture. that is why i am voting no.
blue-card question.– madam president (and thank you, mr buzek, for such an interesting speech), we have been looking from a swedish point of view at the energy security situation in poland. one big part that you did not mention – which i would give you the chance to elaborate on – is the biomass industry, which is producing more than 52% of sweden’s energy. poland, too, has huge potential for developing a big biomass industry. would it be in the interest of mr buzek to work together to strengthen the biomass industry in poland?
madam president, i would like to thank you. we now have the opportunity to move from a society that is dependent on fossil fuels to a society that is based on renewable energy laws, and this is one of our biggest challenges. the eu is the world's largest energy importer. the eu imports 53% of its energy at a cost of over €400 billion a year. we are already on track to meet the 2020 target of 20% of total energy to be renewable. but if we're going to reach our 2030 target of 27 percent of our energy coming from renewables, we need to do something. in order to progressively and effectively integrate renewable generation into a market that promotes competitive renewable energy sources and drives innovation, the networks of energy markets must also be adapted to renewable energy sources. if we miss this part, we also miss one of the most important components in creating a better environment and also in strengthening our energy security.
madam president, i would like to thank you. this is an important and central area for guaranteeing independence and autonomy, not least in view of the fact that russia has increasingly chosen to exploit its energy resources for political purposes through both blackmail and threats. there is a lot of good in the commission's communication and in the report, but also a lot of bad, unfortunately. for example, there is talk of new large-scale investments in fossil fuels, new gas pipelines and even extracting more oil where possible, no clear message about ending carbon dependence or the use of coal, although everyone knows that it is not sustainable. the report also states that climate objectives and energy security objectives can be combined. i agree, they can and should move in the same direction, but why don't you do it later? we have good prospects in europe for making the transition, but we are hesitant and we are pointing in different directions. it creates uncertainty instead of clarity, confusion instead of activity. would you be so kind as to tell me which way to go from here? "that depends on where you want to go", said the cat. alice said it didn't matter. "then it doesn't matter which way you go", said the cat.
the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the i would ask my honourable colleague to look at the reality. because in reality, it's a very different matter. that's where renewables are today bringing down prices across europe in terms of energy, in terms of electricity. it is wind power which is the cheapest to invest in today and the united kingdom should also invest more in it, and there is also a lot of planning from the energy authorities. so look at the reality. it would make it easier. (the speaker accepted to answer a question ('blue card') in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
madam president, i think that it is important to state that this discussion has arisen very much from the fact that russia is using its energy resources for political and strategic purposes against member states of the european union, as well as others. this is a threat to peace and stability, and also to the sovereignty of our societies. we need to diversify, we need to develop new energy sources, and we need to phase out those energy sources that have the highest levels of carbon dioxide emissions. this is very compatible with the climate strategy of the european union, because when we reduce fossil fuels we are also reducing our dependence on russia and on other regimes that use their petrol resources in order to have a political impact. this leads me to an important conclusion for this chamber: the green’s policies are leading us to the increased use of black fossil fuels. we see it in a number of countries: when phasing out nuclear power instead of phasing out fossil fuels, we are increasing our dependence on countries like russia and we are increasing our dependence on fossil fuels. let us do it the other way around: reduce fossil fuels and reduce our dependence on the countries we do not want to be dependent on.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, i have to ask you. the commission's proposal has raised important objections both in terms of costs and in terms of personal safety and privacy and fundamental rights. it is good that the commission is considering the possibility of presenting revised proposals, because it will give us the opportunity to have a real debate on this, on the need for the new system of border crossings. i believe that the starting point for a new system of border control must be the aim of making it easier for everyone who wants to come to the eu to cross the borders. if the proposal does not serve that purpose, i cannot see that it has any relevant added value. we cannot have a system of first and second class migrants, where some are allowed to pass through revolving doors and others have to undergo a privacy-infringing screening. this is not in keeping with the human perspective that should guide us in formulating our policies, either at national or at eu level. i also do not think it is justifiable to spend money on increasing control over people at the expense of their personal privacy. at the same time, there is an urgent need for resources to save lives at the eu's borders and to create safe routes to the eu for those fleeing war and poverty. a little personal part: in sweden, the police had a database. i was one of those standing there, out of 5,000 people, me, my four children and my eight grandchildren. i've never been questioned by the police. a thousand dead people were on the register, and a thousand children. there are people who are in charge of these data banks, we do not yet know in sweden who will be able to access these data. so we need to be afraid of certain things, otherwise we should not be pursuing politics out of fear, but we should be innovative... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, it is about time that we talked about the 2 million people that are fleeing at the moment in europe. it is an exodus of the magnitude of the bosnian war. there are 1.2 million internally-displaced people in ukraine: children, women, men – innocent people. there are 800 000 refugees leaving ukraine. there are humanitarian convoys from the united nations, from the european union, that do not get through to the people in need. there are 3.2 million people in need of urgent help, according to the european union humanitarian office. why is no one talking about them? they are victims who are kidnapped and hijacked. but there is this fear of confronting russia, which wants to subvert the order of peace and security in europe by using force and, more and more, heavy weapons. i am glad that this parliament, with a strong majority, has supported the resolution that simply tells a member of the security council to respect the rule of law and international law.
- i've put my voice down. the report's criticism of russia is correct. i condemn the annexation of crimea, as well as russia's human rights violations such as the persecution of lgbtq people and restrictions on freedom of expression and assembly. my criticism of putin's authoritarian and corrupt rule is crystal clear. but i strongly disagree with the report's conclusion that there is a need to consolidate and deepen the eu's common foreign and security policy. on the contrary, i believe that we need non-aligned eu countries, such as sweden, which retain their own independent capacity to act for détente, peace and disarmament. i am also opposed to the closer cooperation between the eu and nato. militarisation and the building of great powers do not solve conflicts. i would also have liked the report to have put more emphasis on, and focused on, strategies for peaceful civil conflict resolution. that is why i choose to abstain.
in writing. we swedish social democrats think it is good to analyse and respond appropriately to biased russian information disseminated in various eu languages, but we do not think that the commission should allocate money to do this independently. the commission should instead develop projects to monitor the spread of russian propaganda within and outside the eu in cooperation with the national authorities of the member states. we therefore decided not to support all the points in paragraph 12 of the report.
in writing. we voted in favour of the saudargas report on european energy security. some of the wording used is very broad and thus includes both positive and negative elements, which can make it difficult to draw the line correctly between a technical statement and a value-added message. there is also a difference between national policies, where we ourselves decide on our energy mix, and a european perspective, where it can be stated that nuclear power, for example, will be used for a long time to come. we therefore wish to point out that our intention to refer to low-carbon technologies, a low-emission society, etc. does not in any way represent a departure from our line on nuclear energy, which will continue to follow the result of the referendum in accordance with the decisions of the social democratic congress. we are pursuing a development, both at swedish and european level, with energy efficiency and renewable energy sources in focus and where the highest environmental and safety requirements are to be set throughout the production chain and emissions are to be costly.
in writing. - i've turned my voice down. the turkish people must decide for themselves whether they want to be part of the eu or not. but before membership can be considered, the turkish government must demonstrate clearly that it respects democracy, human rights and international law. the key issues include the safeguarding of the democratic rights of the kurds and all other ethnic minorities, the freedom of the political opposition to work without risk of reprisals, the development of gender equality policies and respect for the rights of all women, the active fight against widespread corruption and the end of the occupation of parts of cyprus. once these fundamental issues are resolved, there are no obstacles to turkey's membership of the eu, but the decision must be taken in a democratic referendum where the people of turkey themselves decide. on this basis of principle, i choose to abstain.
the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, calling on the eu to take action to combat the situation in the former yugoslavia. we consider turkey to be one of the eu's most important partners in a number of key areas, such as energy and trade, counter-terrorism and security, migration and refugee reception. we should therefore do everything we can to speed up the reform process, and the most effective way to do that is through these negotiations. we therefore particularly welcome the fact that parliament is calling on the member states to open chapters 23 (justice and fundamental rights) and 24 (freedom, security and justice) and thereby to increase the pace of reform in these areas. we also look with confidence to the results of this weekend's elections, which show that turkish democracy is viable.
mr president, i would like to thank you. major sporting events are supposed to be a neutral venue where sport and athletic performance are the focus. unfortunately, this is jeopardised by the fact that the competitions are held in countries with dubious democracies, where the games are transformed into a political tool for the regime to legitimise human rights violations. the council and the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy should clearly call on the european olympic committee to demand that the host countries guarantee respect for human rights. the european union is now sending a clear signal on this issue - not least in support of the forces fighting for human rights in the country - when the european olympic committee fails to take its responsibility for this before the baku games. one problem that has been found at all major sporting events, regardless of the host country, is the huge increase in demand for sexual services. major sports event organisers need to clearly condemn prostitution and take greater responsibility to counter an increase in prostitution as a result of such events. to combat the exploitation of people, in a variety of areas, from social upheavals to working conditions. these are key criteria for the sustainability and future development of these sports events. i think the eu has a great opportunity to put pressure on this. the same is true of the case mentioned, with leyla yunus, for example, and others like her. they had leyla yunus as a finalist for our sakharov prize solely because of her work for human rights and the values that she stood for. the values and the work that we valued in even being able to honor her, that's what she's been imprisoned for. i think the eu as an institution must put pressure on and make use of the expert group set up in may 2011. there are ethical and moral rules that we can push around, this is not worthy of the european union, not to act.
mr president, i would like to thank you. daesh has carried out systematic attacks on a large number of archaeological, religious and cultural sites in syria and iraq. now we can only hope that they will not also rob the world of the irreplaceable cultural heritage that is the city of palmyra. this recurrent strategy has been described as cultural cleansing. in particular, when the acts are directed against members of a religious or ethnic group in order to prevent the practice, remembrance and learning of religion, they may amount to persecution and, in certain circumstances, to genocide. but the resolution also deals with human rights. the imprisonment of syrian human rights defender mazen darwish and other freedom fighters is yet another testimony to the gross violations of human rights that occur every day in syria. i express my admiration and solidarity with all syrian activists who continue their struggle in a conflict-torn environment and i call for the immediate release of all those who have been the victims of arbitrary detention.
in writing. the developments in the black sea basin are very worrying and we support the european council's condemnation of russia's annexation of crimea. we are very concerned about the reports of war crimes and human rights violations in the area and believe it is important that the eu should speak out against this with a clear voice. however, we do not believe that a unilateral focus on military build-up in the region is the best way forward. we would have liked the report to also highlight other appropriate measures to deal with the situation in the black sea basin in a more comprehensive way.
in writing. – in light of the escalation in the conflict between russia and the western democracies, including inter alia the build-up of military forces, the risk of a possible arms race and russian threats of use of nuclear arms, i consider the calls for nato forces to be moved to the black sea basin an ill-advised and confrontational suggestion. because of this, i abstained in the vote on this resolution.
in writing. ‒ we fully share the criticism of fifa and welcome the legal process currently under way. it is good that the swedish football association has not only distanced itself from the corruption in fifa but is working hard and longterm to counteract irregularities in football. but it is not for the european parliament to control in detail how the associations in the member states are to organise themselves. this applies regardless of the size of the association. we are assuming that if investigations reveal that russia or qatar have been awarded the hosting rights after bribery and other corruption, fifa will take action and move the tournament. and there may be reason to consider whether sweden's national team will go to the world cup in russia and reason to criticize the working conditions at the world cup buildings in qatar. but it is ultimately up to the individual football associations to decide whether to participate or not. it is not for the eu to decide. indeed, if members of the european parliament wish to form opinions on these issues, they can do so without using the legislative instruments of the european parliament as a platform.
in writing. ‒ we fully share the criticism of fifa and welcome the legal process currently under way. it is good that the swedish football association has not only distanced itself from the corruption in fifa but is working hard and longterm to counteract irregularities in football. but it is not the business of the european parliament to control the details of the governance of associations and the drawing up of laws on this subject. this applies regardless of the size of the association. we are assuming that if investigations reveal that russia or qatar have been awarded the hosting rights after bribery and other corruption, fifa will take action and move the tournament. and there may be reason to consider whether sweden's national team will go to the world cup in russia and reason to criticize the working conditions at the world cup buildings in qatar. but it is ultimately up to the individual football associations to decide whether to participate or not. it is not for the eu to decide. indeed, if members of the european parliament wish to form opinions on these issues, they can do so without using the legislative instruments of the european parliament as a platform.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the development of emu needs to have a clearer focus on creating a better and functioning labour market. this is a crucial key to building stable public finances and a stable monetary union. the social dumping must be stopped. everyone wins on fair terms and fair competition. the active labour market policy must be intensified. the match is too bad today in many places. the work environment must be upgraded. in that area, too little has happened in the past year. the social partners must be given a central role in this. their rights and independence must be respected. they need to be more actively involved at both national and european level in all phases of the european semester.
mr president, having listened to this debate, it is striking that so very many in this chamber believe that you can solve the problem of a deficit crisis and the debt crisis by increasing the deficits and the debts. if we look around, in reality it is very easy to see that, where you have allowed the deficits to increase, you have undermined employment, growth and investment. this is the true reality, and still some here believe that you have to finance investments with the money you do not have, instead of having budgets applied using the money you do have. i say this because the rules we possess have value and credibility if we follow them, and if we follow them we will allow for the investments and the growth we need. that is why this report is good: it means that we can follow the rules that we have agreed upon. that makes the european union strong.
madam president, i would like to thank you. as i see it, the european commission's action plan on corporate taxation is both good and bad. i think it is good that the proposal for a common consolidated corporate tax base is now being relaunched in a pragmatic way. the gradual process envisaged by the commission is probably the only realistic way forward. i also think it is good that the commission is making a proper argument about how the oecd-led beps initiative should be implemented at eu level. this calls for a well-thought-out strategy. i also think it is good that the commission is establishing a blacklist of tax havens. the list can be a useful tool in the fight against tax evasion. i think it is a bad thing that the commission is burying the requirement of transparency in a vague consultation. instead, the commission should have made a bold proposal to extend the country-by-country reporting requirements for large crossborder companies to all sectors. anyone who follows this matter knows very well that the knowledge base for such a proposal is already quite sufficient.
‒ the efsi enjoys very broad support both among the member states and in the european parliament. the proposal has been put in the right direction in parliament on crucial points: reducing the depletion of european research funding, ensuring that member states' contributions are fully covered by the budgetary rules of the stability pact and that the efsi cannot be used as an excuse for not implementing the necessary structural reforms. in the negotiations with the council of ministers, the european parliament has unfortunately had to give way to several of these important demands. it is noteworthy that the swedish government in the council of ministers has supported taking money from research, shifting it to new money and clarifying the budgetary rules of the stability pact. the efsi does not solve the fundamental problem of declining investment levels in europe. europe has gradually become too overregulated, too slow and too expensive to invest in. to make europe more attractive for investment, reforms are needed to boost competitiveness and reduce fiscal deficits. it is now crucial not to lose sight of what is really needed to increase the willingness to invest in europe. countries in dire need of reform cannot rely on money from brussels to get them out of the crisis and therefore fail to implement the necessary reforms. in such cases, the lower investment levels risk becoming permanent.
in writing. - i voted against the report. the idea of an investment plan for europe is a good one, but the proposal at issue is not a real investment plan, since it is not really a question of real investment with real money. a central part of the proposal at issue is the desire for large-scale private investment, where the main motive will be profit-making rather than fighting unemployment and growing social inequalities within the eu. we know that there is a huge need for investment across the eu, for example to strengthen infrastructure, develop renewable energy, improve the public sector and welfare. massive and real green investment in these sectors would boost the economy, create lots of new jobs and help solve many of the structural and social problems facing eu countries today. however, this requires a new approach from the eu, it requires abandoning the market-liberal approach of austerity and recognising that what is needed above all is massive public green investment. i would support such an offensive investment plan, but the proposal at hand is something quite different. that is why i am voting no.
in writing. ‒ the efsi has very broad support both among member states and in the european parliament. we moderates have taken the proposal in the right direction and succeeded in getting the european parliament to agree with us on the crucial points: reducing the depletion of european research funding, ensuring that member states' contributions are fully covered by the budgetary rules of the stability pact and that the efsi should not become an excuse for not implementing the necessary structural reforms. in the negotiations with the council of ministers, the european parliament has unfortunately had to give way to several of these important demands. it is noteworthy that the swedish government in the council of ministers has supported taking money from research, shifting it to new money and clarifying the budgetary rules of the stability pact. the efsi does not solve the fundamental problem of declining investment levels in europe. europe has gradually become too overregulated, too slow and too expensive to invest in. to make europe more attractive for investment, reforms are needed to boost competitiveness and reduce fiscal deficits. it is now crucial not to lose sight of what is really needed to increase the willingness to invest in europe. countries in dire need of reform cannot rely on money from brussels to get them out of the crisis and therefore fail to implement the necessary reforms. in such cases, the lower investment levels risk becoming permanent.
in writing. ‒ the efsi has very broad support both among member states and in the european parliament. we moderates have taken the proposal in the right direction and succeeded in getting the european parliament to agree with us on the crucial points: reducing the depletion of european research funding, ensuring that member states' contributions are fully covered by the budgetary rules of the stability pact and that the efsi should not become an excuse for not implementing the necessary structural reforms. in the negotiations with the council of ministers, the european parliament has unfortunately had to give way to several of these important demands. it is noteworthy that the swedish government in the council of ministers has supported taking money from research, shifting it to new money and clarifying the budgetary rules of the stability pact. the efsi does not solve the fundamental problem of declining investment levels in europe. europe has gradually become too overregulated, too slow and too expensive to invest in. to make europe more attractive for investment, reforms are needed to boost competitiveness and reduce fiscal deficits. it is now crucial not to lose sight of what is really needed to increase the willingness to invest in europe. countries in dire need of reform cannot rely on money from brussels to get them out of the crisis and therefore fail to implement the necessary reforms. in such cases, the lower investment levels risk becoming permanent.
‒ today we voted on financial contributions from the so-called globalisation fund. the fund is designed to help people who have lost their jobs as a result of the closure of european companies. i am consistently voting no to disbursements from this fund for two reasons: first, labour market policies and financial support for the unemployed should be decided on, and financed, at national level not at eu level. secondly, the fund's basic idea is that globalisation is something negative - which is not true. globalization and free trade lead to growth and peace.
in writing. we swedish social democrats note that there is a need to develop economic governance within the euro area. as long as the process does not damage the internal market or the interests of non-euro countries, we have no objection in general to the fact that a renewed reform of the euro area has now been launched. the report contains significant ambiguities on a number of specific points. this includes the way in which the 'convergence guidelines' would work, how the esm and the fiscal compact would be 'integrated into the community framework', how a 'european financial authority' would be constructed and how a 'fiscal policy capacity' for the euro area would relate to the eu budget. the uncertainties have made it difficult to take a definitive position on these points.
mr president, i think this document by mr balz and mr gualtieri is a very good one. it is extremely important that we get deeper capital markets in europe, but i always get a little sceptical when people say that we are to launch a capital markets union. i would like to disclose to this plenary that we already have a capital markets union: it is called the european union, and its aim is for an internal market and the free flow of goods, capital services and people. i say this because this discussion is very much about the shortcomings of the past, where we have not been able to get rid of the hindrances, barriers and fragmentation. we do have well-functioning capital markets in the union, here and there, which are rather deep and which are providing the capital. the problem is not the amount of liquidity but the amount of profitable investments. there are some things we need to do in order to improve the capital markets of the european union. first of all, we should skip the idea of the financial transaction tax. secondly, we need to have a review of all the legislation we have dealt with so far: some good, some maybe not so good, and some which hinders. we need to ensure that we are not regulating in a way that creates hindrances and that we are opening up for the free flow of capital – that is the way to get more investments.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i am positive about the construction of a capital markets union. it would be valuable to reduce the companies' dependence on banks. in the countries where banks have failed, small businesses have been particularly affected. this, in turn, has crippled parts of the real economy. the system shouldn't be that sensitive. it would also be useful if a number of crossborder barriers could be broken down. this part of the single market is seriously underutilized. there is a great european potential that is just waiting to be tapped. at the same time, it is important to be aware of the risks. the cmu must not develop into a purely deregulatory agenda for example in the area of securitisation. the weakening of key regulatory frameworks could jeopardise financial stability. we can't let that happen.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i would like to raise the question of the migration situation in the mediterranean again. what is the eu really doing to try to prevent people from setting out in unseaworthy boats for an uncertain future in europe? why are the governments of those countries not held to account when their irresponsible immigration policies lure people into this dangerous journey? i am thinking in particular of my own country, sweden, where a puppet government with a very weak mandate from its own people is pursuing a policy whereby it is enough to say that you are from syria to obtain a permanent residence permit. of course, this leads to widespread cheating among migrants, but above all it leads to people taking great risks and turning to smugglers in the hope of enjoying swedish welfare. who holds the swedish government and its accomplices responsible for this devastating signals policy?
madam president, i would like to thank you. my own party is cautiously positive about a trade deal. we believe that it will strengthen swedish industry by removing both customs duties and other existing trade barriers. but the contract contains a number of factors, which makes it very complex. it is also difficult to assess exactly how all these factors will affect sweden. instead of finding common rules for all sectors, we think it is better to target those sectors where there is a good chance of agreeing common rules. on the other hand, we are strongly opposed to the isds clause. we must be able to strengthen both labour law and the environment in sweden without risking being sued for it by disgruntled investors, and that is why we are strongly against isds. finally, how will you regulate imports so that the single market within the eu is not blocked, and what do you say if studies show that exports from the eu will decline?
madam president, i would like to thank you. we are now negotiating a free trade agreement between the eu and the usa. the world's largest free trade agreement that can become the world's best free trade agreement for jobs and growth. that's why i get depressed when i hear the debate here. what a low self-esteem you have. you're just talking about what you don't want in the deal, not what you want in. but that is because on the extreme right and the extreme left they do not like the united states and they do not like free trade and therefore they abhor the idea of a free trade agreement with the united states and now they are trying to throw gravel into the machine. it is sad to see how the social democrats choose to dance to the pipes of the right and the left. they've made the investment protection a red-eye, but frankly, it's like don quixote's battle with windmills. it's not about curtailing democracy. it is a question of states also respecting fundamental principles of law. that there should be no discrimination, no expropriation, no breach of contract. it shows everyone madam president, i would like to thank you. we are now negotiating a free trade agreement between the eu and the us - the world's largest free trade agreement, which could be the world's best free trade agreement for jobs and growth. that's why i get depressed when i hear the debate here. what a low opinion of yourself you have! you're just talking about what you don't want in the deal, not what you want in. but that is because on the extreme right and the extreme left they do not like the united states and they do not like free trade and therefore they abhor the idea of a free trade agreement with the united states, and now they are trying to throw gravel into the machine. it is sad to see, i think, how the social democrats choose to dance to the tune of the right and the left. they've made the investment protection a red cloud, but it's like, frankly, don quixote's battle with windmills. it's not about curtailing democracy. it is a question of states also respecting fundamental principles of law. that there should be no discrimination, no expropriation, no breach of contract. it shows all the cases that have been settled. i challenged my colleagues to give me a single case of democracy being restricted, but i got nothing. because they're ghosts, they're myths, they're windmills. no, the left's opposition to investment protection says very little about the problems of investment protection, but unfortunately it says a great deal about the legal principles that the extreme right and the extreme left are willing to violate in order to realize their political utopias. that is precisely why we need investment protection, and that is why i will vote in favour of an ambitious agreement with the united states with strong investment protection.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the fact that the world's two largest economies, and also democracies, are making deals with each other is something fundamentally good, and should not be so controversial and lead to so many completely unsound statements as we have heard here today. to the thousands of citizens of sweden who have sent me worried emails, i want to point out that the norms and values that we cherish in the eu should in no way be sacrificed or lowered by ttip. products that do not meet the eu's high standards will not be allowed on the european market in the future. of course, this also applies to hormone-treated beef or chlorinated chickens that have made headlines. it is important that the eu and the us together seize the opportunity to set the bar high for the defence of the fundamental values of democracy, environmental security, market economy and human rights, which are a matter of course for both our countries and should be the basis for global standards. i think it is quite wonderful that we have a commissioner who has stood up and fought for this, and in a transparent way, and for that i want to thank her.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i would like to say a few words about the acta agreement, because it seems that history is about to repeat itself. the acta was a trade agreement negotiated during the last mandate and, like ttip, it started with a unanimous decision by the member states. the opinion in parliament was very positive; it seemed as if it was a matter of course that the agreement would be passed. but the longer the negotiations progressed, the more the criticism from scientists and from popular movements grew. the commission published a document saying that everything was just myth. the document was called 'ten myths about acta', which of course turned out to be incorrect. by the time the vote was taken, public opinion had been awakened. civil society was mobilised and parliamentary groups took a stand against the acta agreement. the vote count, three years ago on saturday, 478 against and 39 for. if the commission does not listen, the ttip will follow suit.
in writing. ‒ i am sceptical about the value of the new efsi fund, especially considering that some of the money is taken from forward-looking programmes with clear european added value such as horizon 2020 and the connecting europe facility. but now that the fund is in place, we have to make the best of it, for example, how it can be used for infrastructure in sweden.
‒ today, parliament voted on an own-initiative report on the general situation of dairy farmers in the eu and the impact of the abolition of milk quotas. the situation is serious, not least in sweden, where on average one dairy farmer a day is laid off. i voted in favour of the report because it is characterized by a sense of crisis which the situation undeniably demands. but also because the report is clear that it was right to abolish the milk quota system. another important point in the report is the importance of reducing bureaucracy and administrative burdens for milk producers. the christian democrats want to see a fundamentally changed european agricultural policy, in which deregulation and natural competitiveness play a more prominent role. that is why i voted against many parts of the report. for example, demands for an increase in the intervention price for milk (price regulation), criticism of globalisation and demands for new subsidy mechanisms.
‒ (m) supports the abolition of the european milk quota system. in the long run, it is good to let supply and demand drive this market. however, now in the transitional phase, it creates some negative consequences with lack of profitability and closures. (m) to protect a vibrant countryside and to make it possible to live throughout sweden. we therefore voted in favour of this report, which aims to mitigate these negative effects. however, we do not believe that trade restrictions and various forms of financial support are sustainable solutions in the long term.
‒ today, parliament voted on a report commenting on the commission's report on the implementation of the 2007 reform of the fruit and vegetables sector. the commission report, like the parliament's report, sees eu subsidies to trade associations as the key to competitiveness. i don't agree with this. the report also contains a direct protectionist element which risks hindering access to the european market for fruit and vegetables from the poor part of the world. that is why i voted against.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i am very pleased with the measures we are discussing. it is right to encourage institutional investors and other shareholders to become more active and to influence the development of the companies in which they invest in a more long-term manner. it is also important to facilitate active ownership across borders. the package of measures should lead to increased engagement and thus to better functioning companies. it is particularly important that there is now really broad support in parliament for increasing transparency around crossborder companies. extending the country-by-country reporting requirements to all sectors is a natural and effective reform. it is about giving shareholders greater transparency and about pushing back more generally against corruption, tax fraud and aggressive tax planning. this is an issue which parliament should push hard in the forthcoming trialogue.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, allow me first of all to thank mr cofferati and all the other colleagues for the hard work and good cooperation in improving this important legislative proposal. i am very happy that we have been able to find a compromise, in the centre of this european parliament, that can gather broad support among pro-european and progressive forces. this has, of course, meant that all of us have had to make concessions and do so in a spirit of compromise on a number of points, but i believe that the end result is acceptable to all of us. for the liberal group it has been a paramount concern that this directive should improve the ability for shareholders to exercise their rights in cross-border situations and not to add unnecessary red tape and bureaucracy, because let’s face it, european entrepreneurs and companies will not flourish because of the additional rules to comply with, but rather if we create a good business environment where they can focus on their core tasks. we do not believe that we can generate long-term engagement in companies by investors through legislative proposals requiring various sorts of policy papers or creative tax incentives. shareholders need access to appropriate information, but then it remains their responsibility to engage with the companies that they own. if this interest is not there, it cannot artificially be engineered by politicians or bureaucrats. i think that the focus put to a large extent by the proposals of the commission on requiring a detailed remuneration policy and remuneration report for the director’s remuneration is, to say the least, difficult to understand, not to say rather populist. although i would personally have been happy to remove even more, i am happy that the compromise proposals have respected the key points that were problematic. today i feel a lot more comfortable, and i ask my group to support the compromises and the report, and i look forward to the trilogues and the continued work on this file, fighting for a directive that is fit for purpose and focuses on shareholders’ rights rather than shareholders’ obligations.
blue-card question.– do you not see that what we are trying to do with the market stability reserve (msr) is to get the system working? we know that it has not been effective and that it has not been working, but then we have to strive to make it work. if we compare, for example, the industry in your home country with the steel industry in sweden, i dare to say that the swedish ones are cleaner, more efficient and more competitive. in addition to the ets, and the upcoming msr, we have extra, quite high co2 taxes. would you not see that you would benefit from doing the right thing?
madam president, first of all i would like to express thanks from gerben-jan gerbrandy, who, owing to unexpected reasons, could not be here today, and also from myself for the good work that the rapporteur, ivo belet, has done here. he was able to gather different political forces in a good and strong compromise; even though we, as alde, would have preferred to go even further, we know that you were working hard to get the different sides together. we saw in the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) – where all political confidence between the parties fell apart – how hard it can be. so you actually made a great political achievement here. secondly, i would like to refer to some of the colleagues to say that it is impossible, that we are driving industry out of europe. we can see that we still have strong industries in europe, and these are mainly the ones which have already enacted the reforms that you need in order to lower emissions. we can see that the united states is performing better when it comes to the steel industry today, and we can see that china is performing better when it comes to the cement industry. next week, when commissioner cañete and his colleagues present a review on the ets, we will have a new chance to take the further steps we need in order to have a modern and progressive industry that is competitive in europe.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i must say that i too have often despaired of this emissions trading system that we have had in europe. it is the european-level tool that we have had, while the member states have had the bulk of the tools that have actually existed, but when it has not worked for a long time, you have to think about what is wrong. i am therefore very pleased, also as shadow rapporteur on the committee on industry, that an agreement has been reached which now represents a clear step forward. the commission proposal was actually very weak, so i think it is extremely important and pleasing that we have now agreed on a real step forward, and that parliament has been involved in it, but we must not forget that this will not be enough to make the system work. there is a need for further steps, and i hope that mr cañete and the commission will take them soon, so that we can say that the eu is taking its responsibility in this area.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i welcome this report by mr lambert and the fact that the important gender perspective is highlighted so clearly and consistently throughout the report. to meet the challenges of a green economy, we need to train more technicians, scientists, scientists and engineers. the transition of europe to a low-carbon and resource-efficient economy offers great opportunities for both society and the labour market. many new jobs will be created in renewable energy production, waste and water management, air quality, biodiversity restoration and green infrastructure development. to meet europe's high demand for skilled workers in a green economy, we need to train more young women as technicians, scientists and engineers. to achieve this, we need to focus on gender equality and tackle discrimination and sexism in the labour market. a green economy must include clear gender equality commitments.
madam president, i would like to thank you. thank you for being here, commissioner. the crisis and the fact that economic freedoms are being put before social rights have created serious cracks in europe's social model. can we change this? with vigorous education efforts, with investment, and of course also investment in green jobs and in transition? of course we can do it! at the same time, we know that workers and member states are today facing each other in an unfair competition where companies are not competing to be the best at what they do, but to be the cheapest. they compete not with excellence but with low wages and poor working conditions. i would therefore like to take the liberty of changing some of the perspectives. i think it is extremely important that the labour mobility package that the commission and commissioner thyssen are working on at the moment must become a fair mobility package, so broad and yet so specific that it actually makes a difference, otherwise we risk ending up at a level of conflict in society that we now see even in this house every day.
madam president, i would like to thank you. this is perhaps the greatest failure in the history of the european union, and the list of failures is endless. in the case of greece, the figures on the state of the economy were frozen, and the eu did not even do a proper audit of it. if the eu had been a private company, it would have been put under compulsory administration long ago because of the totally irresponsible way in which it handles taxpayers' money. it is tragic what has happened, and the big losers will be the greek people and the taxpayers of all the member states who will have to pay the price. and now you sit here, the eu elite, and you argue over the outcome of a democratic referendum that the greek people have held, and you call yourselves the representatives of democracy. you should be ashamed of yourself! greece now manages large sums of money from several of our member countries and banks. the loans must of course be repaid by greece, just as any private person must. i expect that a solution will be found by the parties involved.
mr president, i would like to thank you. there is one person in europe who is more responsible for what is happening in greece than anyone else, and he is sitting here in 23rd place, alexis tsipras, the prime minister of greece. he has not said a word about taking responsibility for what is happening in greece today. your government took over an economy in crisis, but also in economic boom. it could have been the highest growth rate in the euro area. in five months, you've reversed that trend, and we're seeing the results: banking offices closed, tax revenues shrinking, business flight, a closed economy. mr tsipras, do you not have any responsibility for what has happened under your political leadership? you have not said a word in this chamber about what you want to do to reverse the course of greece's development, but you are seeing representatives of a wide range of countries which have been in deep crisis. but what has characterized their leadership is that they have not shunned responsibility. they have taken charge, implemented reforms, set growth in motion and given hope for the future. you're running away from responsibility and saying it's someone else's fault. those who want to lead a country must take responsibility for it and make greece proud. you have not made greece proud here today. you have not given greece a greater opportunity. think again and take responsibility for greece!
the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the we hear in here that everybody has to do something. that's what most people in here say. but what do you do? yeah, you don't come up with any concrete suggestions on how to stop this. i don't think so, at least. in my country, sweden, for example, they give foreign fighters a head start in the labour market, rehabilitation and so on. why not impose harsher punishments? we can follow resolution 2178 and, for example, strip them of their citizenship so that they never enter europe again. answer that!
madam president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by saying that i welcome this report. it reminds us that the foundation of democracy and the foundation of our european cooperation is precisely the respect for human rights. gender equality and women's participation in conflict resolution and democracy building are central to security, both within and outside the eu. violence and abuse against women and girls are systematically used as weapons of war. it is an abominable thing. therefore, there must be a gender perspective in all the efforts made in this area. among other things, women must be appointed as peacemakers in conflicts. the report notes that important work is being done in this area, but that it appears to be limited. i wonder what is being done to widen the scope of the work and to create continuity. a key to the success of our human rights work externally is also that we are credible and maintain a high standard at home. i wonder, therefore, how the council and the commission intend to strengthen the coherence between our internal and external human rights policies. are there specific plans or specifically identified areas for this coming period?
madam president, i would like to thank you. i would also like to start by saying that i think there is a lot of good in this report and that it is very broad and comprehensive. but i also want to raise a few questions which i think are missing. there are two questions in particular which i think are missing. firstly, there is no mention of western sahara, despite the fact that this year marks the 40th anniversary of the occupation. the report we are going to discuss after this, the report on the neighbourhood policy, says that it is not acceptable for one country to occupy the territory of another country. but for some reason that is not the case in western sahara, where we constantly allow a partner country to block the promised referendum. you let them take over natural resources and you let them change the population structure without any consequences. the western sahara has chosen nonviolence. i believe in nonviolence, but you also have to give them recognition for the nonviolent work they do. we cannot ignore them just because they do not use violence. the second issue that is also missing here is the arms export to the region. the report says that this is a new situation in the whole of the mena region and that we must adapt our actions to this new situation, but we do not talk about what we ourselves are contributing to this region. between 2010 and 2014, we accounted for 32 percent of all arms exports. in 2013, we sold weapons for a total value of eur 9.6 billion and in 2012 eur 10.7 billion. we must now seriously consider whether we should really be selling arms to a region where they may very soon be used against us.
for the alde group. president. - the debate is closed. after 16 years in parliament, i have to say that there is a marked tendency for us to try to make political, emotional decisions rather than stick to scientific accuracy when it comes to details. it is obvious that when it comes to policies, objectives and organisations, we are responsible for policies and political decisions. but when it comes to exact physical details such as the level of radioactive content, the levels in food and feed, in this case, then it is given that experts with scientific background should make decisions based on evidence. they're the ones who'll make the final decisions. so we're going to vote for a lot of things, but we don't want to go along with the amendment. i know that there is a majority in the envi for this but there is a clear majority in the agri committee for maintaining euratom as the legal basis, and the european court of justice has also made a decision on drinking water, so we and the alde group will vote against the change in the source of the law.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– madam president, my first computer had 3 583 bytes free – not kilobytes, bytes. the world has changed a lot since then. culture has changed. but copyright is still basically in the old paradigm. the computer i have in my hand has a memory that is two-and-a-half million times larger than my first computer, but the sense of change is far greater than that. my first computer was connected to a tape recorder. this one is connected to the world. i would urge you, everyone, to vote for the good things in this report. they are a sign that the political system is waking up to the enormous change that has already taken place, and i would also urge you to consider the changes that are going to take place in the coming decades and the world we will be living in then.
madam president, i would like to thank you. it is an important own-initiative report that we are discussing, because it requires that policy takes on the task at hand; both to give citizens the opportunity to access culture, knowledge and contacts via the internet, but also to give creators, creators and distributors the right to be compensated for their hard work. the legislation must be able to achieve this balance. i think it is important that politics also take responsibility for a living culture, and in that case we must ensure that cultural practitioners are given good conditions, but we must also be able to spread culture and take advantage of the opportunities offered by e-books, for example; spread it to children and give children the opportunity to read early. i see great potential in that. i would like to mention two things about this balance. one is education. at first i thought the report contained the view that educators could disseminate anything without paying the cultural practitioners. we've put a stop to that and done better. the second is about freedom of panorama. it must be protected. this is the balance that we're talking about in a concrete example.
in writing. - i voted in favour of these two reports. for me, this is a natural consequence of croatia's accession to the eu, and it is therefore a formality that it is also part of the stabilisation and association agreements with macedonia and serbia. that is not to say that i support everything in those agreements, or all the demands made on serbia and macedonia in those agreements. but this vote is only about the consequences of croatia's accession to the eu, and therefore its membership of the contracting party, the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of these two reports. for me, this is a natural consequence of croatia's accession to the eu, and it is therefore a formality that it is also part of the stabilisation and association agreements with macedonia and serbia. that is not to say that i support everything in those agreements, or all the demands made on serbia and macedonia in those agreements. but this vote is only about the consequences of croatia's accession to the eu, and therefore its membership of the contracting party, the eu.
in writing. - i voted against the report. i am not against scientific and technical cooperation with switzerland, but as this agreement also includes euroatom and the iter project, i will have to vote against it. the aim of euroatom is to promote nuclear power and the iter project aims to generate electricity by fusion of atoms. i am opposed to nuclear power and the iter project, and therefore i will have to vote against the agreement.
‒ in these guidelines, the european parliament clearly points out that more needs to be done to help those furthest from the labour market and also highlights the need for an effective policy to lift up the regions that are particularly lagging behind. the investments made by the european parliament should mainly promote green growth and the conditions for smes. it is positive that the guidelines now being put forward by the european parliament also point to the need for tax change where taxes on labour are reduced.
‒ today we voted on financial aid from the so-called globalisation fund to people who have become unemployed after european companies have closed down. i am consistently voting no to these unemployment benefits for two reasons: first, labour market policies and financial support for the unemployed should be decided on, and financed, at national level not at eu level. secondly, the fund's basic idea is that globalisation is something negative - which is not true. globalization and free trade lead to growth and peace.
in writing. - i voted for the report. i am doing so in order to provide the workers in the present case with financial support for retraining and/or other measures to find new jobs. however, i would like to stress that the widespread unemployment in the eu could be effectively combated if the austerity policies pursued for a long time by the european commission and the governments of the member states were stopped. to create new jobs in europe, a new economic policy with massive public and environmentally friendly investments is needed. investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
‒ i am not sure about the added value of this fund at eu level. i therefore vote against its use.
in writing. - i voted against the report. the mandate gives the right to negotiate a budget that is too large and too comprehensive. there should be major cuts. agriculture is just one example. it results in overproduction and negative effects on the environment, climate and livestock. another example is the uncontrollable regional and structural funds, where there is widespread fraud, as the commission itself has confirmed. i also oppose the efforts to protect the external borders, which means the continuing construction of fortress europe, which forces people fleeing war and oppression to risk their lives to reach a safe haven. i also think it is wrong in principle for the european parliament to have power over the budget. the member states that pay the eu budget should have full say on the union's expenditure. it is more democratic for the governments of the member states and the national parliaments to decide on the long-term budget. it is the taxpayers of the member states who pay and therefore it is their directly elected representatives in each country who should have the power. these are some of the reasons why i am voting against the budgetary mandate.
‒ this report raised important questions about how we can move towards a more sustainable economy and job creation. that is why i voted for the text in the final vote. i would point out, however, that certain parts concerning taxation and employment law did not receive my support.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report because i am convinced that the commission is putting forward ambitious legislation to increase resource efficiency. however, i voted against a few items which risk undermining the use of biomass and which could lead to a disproportionate amount of regulatory wrangling.
in writing. we swedish social democrats are concerned about developments in the mena region and support the eu's review of how the union can best contribute to peaceful, stable and secure development for the people of the region. we believe that the eu should contribute its specific expertise to support regional actors in the fight against daesh, but we do not believe that the eu should be called upon to put together a genuine european defence. we support the report but have reservations about the wording of paragraph 1.
in writing. ‒ we voted in favour, since we really welcome the fact that the report calls on the european union for taking the responsibility to fight against terrorism, but we oppose any recommendation for a common defence. we fully support the fight against terrorism!
in writing. ‒ we voted in favour, since we really welcome the fact that the report calls on the european union to take the responsibility to fight against terrorism, but we oppose all recommendations for a common defence policy. we fully support the fight against terrorism!
in writing. - i've turned my voice down. the neighbourhood policy is important, as is support for people and organisations working to build and deepen democracy and human rights. but i choose to abstain because both these reports, although well written in some respects, are also interwoven with a reinforced common foreign and security policy, which is becoming increasingly militarized and more closely linked to nato, instead of focusing on the md, development and partnership. i also defend sweden's freedom of association and believe that it is extremely important that our country can speak with its own voice in the world. i am opposed to the federal superpower structure of the eu. that's why i choose to keep my voice down.
in writing. we swedish social democrats think it is good to review the european neighbourhood policy and that it is important that it be adapted to the political developments in the neighbourhood. the european union is also calling on the parties to the conflict to take all necessary steps to ensure that the peace process in ukraine is not disrupted. we think that this could have been emphasized in amendment no 1 to the report.
in writing. - i voted for the report. i want to spread cultural expressions and technologies in a way that benefits as many people as possible. for example, we want file sharing (for private use) to be allowed and are positive towards open source and open standards and require the state/governmental authorities to go ahead and exclusively use systems with open standards and open source. freedom of the internet and privacy of people have been a cause that i and the left party have fought for for many years, both against acta and against pnr. requiring permission to take pictures of buildings, statues, and skylines is absurd in an age when almost every person has a mobile phone with a camera. the left party is also a party that defends cultural workers and their right to fair remuneration for their work, and therefore we emphasise, among other things, the importance of one per cent of the state budget going to artistic expression. in the riksdag we have tabled motions which we believe are more important in this context than restricting freedom of panorama.
madam president, i would first like to congratulate the rapporteur. i support his compromise. i am personally convinced that the prohibition of trade in seal products is moral and right, that animals have suffered immensely in the traditional slaughter. on the other hand, it has already been clearly stated here that there is one exception to this prohibition. i want to state in general that if a legal prohibition has an exception, it often causes problems in practice, often such a prohibition is circumvented or interpreted differently. i am a little concerned when i look at the exemption granted to the inuit, that it contains so many conditions and that it is somehow so complex that it will be up to the european commission and i therefore urge the commissioner to monitor very closely whether this exemption is being respected. it should be said that the inuit are not given a place for commercial trade in these goods. it clearly states that this is to be a hunt that is more for non-commercial purposes. that the hunt should be conducted humanely, and so on. it will therefore be for the commission to monitor this so that the exception to the legal prohibition is respected and that the interests of the animals on the one hand and the interests of the traditional inuit community on the other are really balanced. i therefore ask the commission not to end the matter with the adoption of this legislation but to monitor carefully whether what has been established as an exception is being respected. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answer the question by raising the blue card. we are not in dispute, i am merely pointing out as a lawyer that in my view the exception is legally complex and that it is now up to the european commission, once the exception is in force, to check whether it is being respected. i'm saying that as a politician, i respect that the inuit community should have the right to hunt seals and to have that right within the framework of their traditional functioning and their traditional livelihood. but i also note that the commission will have to continue to monitor whether all aspects of this authorisation, this exemption, are being respected. whether hunting is humane, etc. we're not at odds.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by saying that something good about the wto decision is that for the first time animal welfare is mentioned in its action. it could be a thorn in our side when we discuss the future of global trade. that's why it's a very good thing. another good thing about our process is that we've made exceptions so that the inuit can continue their millennia-old cultural act and something that is a foundation for continuing their culture and their economy. the bad thing is we can't tell the difference between hunting and hunting. in sweden, for example, we have strictly regulated seal hunting. but now parliament is saying that if you have hunted seals legally to protect fish stocks or to protect small-scale fishing, then the seals should be burned or dumped in the sea. if we have legal and strict regulation of the possibility of shooting seals, we will of course also have to manage the resource that the seal represents.
madam president, i would like to thank you. so now we are going to ban trade in seal products, including ethically and sustainably hunted seals from, for example, sweden. let me be clear, because this is stumble. we will continue to hunt seals, more and more seals, which is something the commission itself recognizes in the same breath as proposing to ban trade in them. the stock is increasing. so, normal, responsible wildlife management requires us to hunt seals, but now we're going to kill the seals and then we're going to throw them away, burn them, bury them. what's going to become law is completely unethical. the new ban is justified by the protests of the world trade organisation, but there were several ways of addressing these problems, something we in the committee on trade pointed out. let me just point out three solutions that are better than this one, which is the worst of all solutions. the ban could have been lifted altogether. the trade in unethically hunted seals could have been banned. or it could have been made clear that the ban would not apply to seals that have been hunted for non-commercial purposes. this proposal is completely unreasonable. we have just introduced a ban on catching fish and throwing the dead back into the sea, but with this requirement it will be a practical law to do the same with seals. that's why we should do it all over again. tear it down, make it new, because we can't have it this way.
madam president, i would like to thank you. sustainable management of marine resources is of utmost importance, not least in the baltic sea, which is a sensitive inland sea. the mrm exemption that has existed is being removed with this decision, which is extremely unfortunate. the number of grey seals in the baltic sea is increasing all the time. we must continue to shoot seals to maintain the ecological balance of the baltic sea. the problem i have raised in committee all along when i am opposed to the removal of this exception is that it is difficult to get hunters when we are going to hunt seals. the county councils in sweden, which are responsible for making decisions and making sure that we hunt the seal that must be hunted, are already having a hard time finding serious hunters. because serious hunters want to take advantage of what they catch, not least in this case sealskins, which are actually tradable. what's gonna be the problem is we can't get hunters for the hunt that we have to do. the problem is, we can't call in the army to shoot seals. what will happen? my worst-case scenario is that we get a number of event companies around the baltic sea offering weekends where you can shoot wildlife at live animals without having to take responsibility for finding them. this is a bad decision.
the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the i think the commitment that's in here is very, very big for the inuit. but we must also remember that in the nordic countries - in norway, in sweden, in finland and in åland - we have an arctic tradition. since the ice retreated and humans and animals could move to our part of the world, we've been hunting seals. what should we say to the fishermen who are having their entire fish stocks eaten up because of the ecological imbalance that occurs when we have too much seal? what do we say to someone who has the legal right to shoot a seal under strict rules, but then has to burn it or put it on shore or sink it in the sea instead of actually doing something useful with it? yeah, what do we tell them?
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would also like to thank the rapporteur, laura ferrara, for her dedicated work on this report and at the same time also thank the alde shadow rapporteur, louis michel, for his report last year, which clearly set out a roadmap for how we ensure respect for fundamental freedoms and rights in the eu. the individual human rights and freedoms of all citizens, including those whose rights are being undermined by their own governments, as is happening in some parts of our union. when these freedoms and rights are threatened in our countries, the eu institutions must be able to intervene. when a country wants to join our union, it promises loud and clear that it will live up to an independent rule of law and that it will stand up for human rights, but once you are in, you are almost free to do anything. unfortunately, the member states have become accustomed in the council to supporting each other rather than standing up straight and defending fundamental rights. it is absolutely crucial for our credibility in the eu that we now have a binding, independent and objective review of each member state and of the respect for fundamental rights - a continuous review that applies to all. remember that fundamental rights are the foundation of our union and of all our cooperation. perhaps the member states will only begin to understand the seriousness of this when they are faced with economic consequences, and i am referring to this, because another europe is indeed possible.
mr president, i would like to thank you. in article 116 of the proposal for a new european convention on human rights, the european parliament deplored the repeated and tragic loss of life in the mediterranean. parliament stressed that the eu and the member states should do more to prevent new tragedies at sea. i can only agree with that, but when some members of parliament want to integrate human rights into everything that has to do with eu migration policy, they always assume that all the people who are fleeing must come to europe to have their rights respected. the solution is to encourage the eu and its member states to open new, safe and legal pathways so that all migrants can enter the european union. this, my friends, is an unsustainable solution. it is true that politicians have been guided by a sense of care and goodwill when they once drew up the european convention, but that feeling has led us completely astray. (the speaker agreed to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).
the answer ('blue card'). yes, i agree with that. they have the same language, they have the same culture, they have the same way of life. why won't they open up? no, they're buying their freedom. they have to take on more responsibility. we in the eu cannot take this large number of migrants. we're cracking up, we're not gonna be able to function if we're going to keep our borders open. i think they can take on a lot more responsibility.
mr president, i would like to thank you. as a member of the european parliament in the european union, where far-right forces are growing like poisonous mushrooms, i regard this report as one of the most important reports we have before us this year. it is a question of how countries are to manage to live up to the fundamentals of our democratic society: respect for the rule of law, respect for human rights and respect for the union's treaties. democracy that is not based on human rights is not a democracy to speak of. we've seen this before in our history, about 70 years ago. if we fail to meet these commitments, we will not succeed in any other ambition. unfortunately, this report is strikingly thick. i would like it to be one or two pages, but it is more than 40 pages covering a wide range of areas where the eu and the member states must act now. that shows we're in trouble 40 pages 2015! a key issue is, of course, the human rights review mechanism, which parliament has repeatedly called for and which is crucial for the eu to live up to its fundamental values. we see that member states are violating human rights in relation to refugees. we see systematic discrimination against roma in all member states. the eu needs an alert mechanism for discrimination and human rights violations wherever they occur, and there is a need for tangible sanctions against those countries that fail to respect human rights and the eu's fundamental values. i support the ferrara report. good work!
(blue card) i feel the commitment in your speech, but the question is whether you are not going too far in your speech. what we know is that what will come out of this debate is that there will be a large majority for a total ban on cloning and going even further, including offspring. but what will be the impact when the institutions then sit down to negotiate? will we get legislation on the table? probably not. i therefore support the commissioner's position on this matter, which allows us to move forward and get a temporary ban on cloning. however, with your line, the institutions will be at odds with each other, and the result will be that we will have no legislation at all.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by thanking the commissioner for doing a very good job, which is well balanced and in line with the research. i also want to make it clear that we in the alde group are in favour of a temporary ban on cloning. the difference in the debate today is very much whether it should be a permanent and total ban, or whether we should have a temporary ban. the nature of the temporary ban is that as technology may develop with the future and we make scientific progress, then of course we have to make some considerations and see if we need to change our legislation. in this respect, i think the commissioner has made a much better balance than our two main rapporteurs in the european parliament. the most problematic for me is when we make the great expansion of the concept to include the offspring of cloned animals. here we see that there is a fairly large part of european agricultural production already today, where we import genetic material for our own meat production or milk production. so you're probably eating cheese or drinking milk that comes from the offspring of a cloned animal every day. there is a scientific fear as soon as we look at our agricultural sector. but if we are to be able to feed more mouths on this earth, we must continually improve our methods and make european agriculture more efficient in the future. however, this must not be at the expense of animal welfare. we are therefore in favour of a temporary ban, but not an indefinite and long-term ban, which in my view is not based on any kind of scientific basis but is simply driven by people's fear of science in agricultural production. from the day we started to domesticate animals, to have domestic animals, we've been trying to breed and increase production, get more meat from our beef animals, get more milk from our dairy animals. even our crops have been improved and made more viable. we've been refining them continuously. we must be able to continue to do so in the future. that is why we support the commissioner's line. (the speaker accepted to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
(blue card) thank you very much for your question, which is justified in several ways. i would like to ask you a counter question, though. we haven't developed an effective antibiotic in 20 years, almost 30 years. does this mean we should stop researching antibiotics? no, not at all! but we must constantly evaluate what the research is coming up with and be prepared to adapt to it. before antibiotics were invented, would they not have been investigated because no progress had been made in the centuries before? no, absolutely not, but we have to constantly research and constantly evaluate.
madam president, i would like to thank you. of course, there are challenges with cloning. the early technology created suffering for the animals. we need a broad gene pool to meet the challenges of the future. it is a sensitive issue, because public opinion is sceptical, as is so often the case with new technology. i therefore understand the commission's cautious attitude on this matter. but to demand, as the european parliament is now doing, a total ban on food from clones and their descendants for all future generations is downright irresponsible. i'll give you three reasons why: firstly, it is unscientific and anti-technological because technology is evolving and advancing. to say that there has been no development in this area in 30 years is downright dishonest. if that were the case, we would not be having this debate today. secondly, it's impossible to control, because we don't eat anything that's clones, except possibly their offspring. how would we know if an animal's ancestor's ancestor was a clone? it's as impossible as knowing if someone's great-great-grandfather was a fraternal twin. my third reason is that this in practice only means a ban on the import of food from more and more countries in the world. protectionists may think that's a good thing, but don't forget we are net exporters of food. our prohibition against them will be met by their prohibition against us. i am concerned that this risks being the first step towards a failure as monumental as the eu's gmo policy - a hard, populist, unscientific blow to the wind, which will be led by many other debates and many new problems.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the proposal because it is bad for sweden and the baltic sea region. this means that shot seals will no longer be marketed in sweden. it will reduce the incentives for the necessary wildlife management of the baltic sea. as regards fish, there is an eu-wide ban on discarding fish, known as the discard ban. the seals will therefore now be disposed of by compulsory disposal. it's beyond my comprehension.
‒ i fully support the wto decision in the seal products case, especially as animal welfare considerations have been the basis for the decision. it is very unfortunate, however, that the implementation proposed by the commission does not take account of the special circumstances prevailing in sweden. as a result of this decision, meat and skins from the permitted and necessary for the fisheries industry conservation hunt will not be used. it is a waste of natural resources not to be able to use the catch from the conservation hunt, and it will have a negative impact on the fishing industry and the archipelago environment. i have therefore voted against the motion.
‒ today the european parliament voted on a negotiating mandate on animal cloning. cloning is a complex issue and i believe that, in principle, cloning should not be allowed on the european market. however, the legislative procedure needs to be conducted with caution and a thorough analysis of possible consequences. the commission has proposed temporary legislation with an evaluation mechanism, which is basically a good idea. however, in the report before parliament this had been deleted and replaced by a requirement for the introduction of permanent legislation. the report also proposed a ban on the trade in meat from cloned animals. since the offspring of a clone does not differ in dna from a 'normal' animal, it would be a prohibition which would be difficult to enforce and which could result in undesirable effects for third countries. i voted against these problematic points and against the report as a whole because the line i advocate was voted down. i would like to stress that this should not be interpreted as support for animal cloning.
‒ this week the european parliament voted on a negotiating mandate on the cloning of animals for animal production. cloning is a complicated issue. it is important not to override animal welfare. the proposal on which the european parliament voted, however, contains major problems concerning the wto agreements and other trade-related aspects. moreover, it is not possible to solve the traceability problem technically, since cloned animals have identical dna to the original animal. the commission has therefore voted against the proposal, as it is not feasible and risks leading to major trade policy implications.
‒ i fully support the commission's proposal to ban the cloning of animals and the sale of products from cloned animals on the european market. there are clear animal health problems with the procedure and until those problems are resolved, a ban should apply. the rapporteur's proposal to extend the ban to include the offspring of cloned animals is very problematic. there are already a lot of offspring of cloned animals in europe, and these animals have no health problems. the proposal also raises major problems for imports from third countries. the rapporteur has adopted a position which is very far from the council's position and, moreover, far from what is practicable. this will make further discussions very problematic and risk stalling the whole legislative process. the likely result of the parliament's decision is that the area remains completely unregulated. as the liberal group's negotiator, i took a line which meant returning to the commission's proposal, and i have also voted against it in the final vote.
‒ this week the european parliament voted on a negotiating mandate on the cloning of animals for animal production. cloning is a complicated issue. it is important not to override animal welfare. the proposal on which the european parliament voted, however, contains major problems concerning the wto agreements and other trade-related aspects. moreover, it is not possible to solve the traceability problem technically, since cloned animals have identical dna to the original animal. the commission has therefore voted against the proposal, as it is not feasible and risks leading to major trade policy implications.
‒ i fully support the commission's proposal to ban the cloning of animals and the sale of products from cloned animals on the european market. there are clear animal health problems with the procedure and until those problems are resolved, a ban should apply. the rapporteur's proposal to extend the ban to include the offspring of cloned animals is very problematic. there are already a lot of offspring of cloned animals in europe, and these animals have no health problems. the proposal also raises major problems for imports from third countries. the rapporteur has adopted a position which is very far from the council's position and, moreover, far from what is practicable. this will make further discussions very problematic and risk stalling the whole legislative process. the likely result of the parliament's decision is that the area remains completely unregulated.
‒ today the european parliament voted on a report on fundamental rights in the eu, drawn up by laura ferrara of the italian five star movement. i chose to vote for an alternative proposal put forward by my group, the epp. unfortunately, the epp motion was not put to the vote, and i chose to vote against the ferrara report. the reason is that the report is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. everything from a federal definition of marriage to legislation on corporate board quota and the abortion issue is covered in the text. these are issues that should be decided at national level and not in the eu institutions. on the abortion issue, the christian democrats believe that there are two individuals worth protecting in a pregnancy and that it is therefore in the interest of society to keep the number of abortions down. that perspective is completely missing from laura ferrara's report.
in writing. - i am in favour of full respect for fundamental rights. i supported many aspects of the report, particularly those relating to children's rights, sexual and reproductive rights, combating violence against women and lgbti rights. i abstained in the final vote because many other aspects should be dealt with at national level, such as the directive on maternity leave. i also do not support the new mechanism for monitoring respect for fundamental rights. it is the commission's task as guardian of the treaties to assess whether member states are complying with their obligations. the european parliament should not become a court of law. fundamental rights should never be politicized.
in writing. the fact that information and communication technologies (ict) should not be misused and contribute to the violation of human rights is a matter of course for us swedish social democrats. we believe that the eu and the ict companies operating in the eu should take responsibility for ensuring this in their relations with third countries, which is why we chose to support the report. we believe that the text clearly emphasizes the importance of all forms of digital surveillance being carried out with respect for fundamental rights and under effective parliamentary control. however, we would like to emphasise the importance of this further, as the technological and digital tools available today can also act as important tools in the fight against terrorism and organised crime, provided that this is done in a controlled manner and with respect for human privacy and digital freedom.
in writing. - i've turned my voice down. the report aims to make the eu's agricultural policy simpler and more effective, and to combat fraud and cheating. i am a strong supporter of combating cheating and fraud within the eu. but i am also against the eu's common agricultural policy, which is very expensive and also contributes to environmental degradation and the deterioration of conditions for poor farmers in the global south. for these reasons, i choose to abstain.
‒ i have voted against the report. the report calls on the member states to re-orient their tax policies in favour of family businesses, in particular in the areas of corporate tax, inheritance tax and gift tax. i believe that the eu should not interfere in national tax policy, and that is why i am voting against. the report also calls for increased support for family businesses to increase employment. but to combat mass unemployment in the member states, it is far more important that the eu breaks with austerity policies and invests in public green investment for infrastructure and welfare.
‒ harnessing the potential of research and innovation in the blue economy to create sustainable jobs and growth is important and something the eu should focus on. unfortunately, the resolution focuses almost exclusively on public investment, at the expense of private investment as well, and calls for additional subsidies for sectors that already have access to eu funds. for these reasons, i could not support the resolution and chose to abstain in the final vote.
‒ harnessing the potential of research and innovation in the blue economy to create sustainable jobs and growth is important and something the eu should focus on. unfortunately, the resolution focuses almost exclusively on public investment, at the expense of private investment as well, and calls for additional subsidies for sectors that already have access to eu funds. for these reasons, i could not support the resolution and chose to abstain in the final vote.
‒ the european parliament voted today on the report on an integrated cultural heritage strategy for europe. cultural heritage issues are important, but funding should be at national, not supranational, level. since the report was characterized by a conviction to the contrary, i chose to vote against.
‒ today the european parliament voted on the follow-up to a citizens' initiative on the right to water. it is an important subject the right to water is to be considered as a human right. the eu, like its member states, has an obligation to ensure a good water supply for all its citizens. unfortunately, the report contained far-left ideological writings calling for far-reaching market restrictions and prohibitions on profits from water-related activities. i therefore chose to support an alternative text from my epp group.
in writing. ‒ the european citizens' initiative is an important instrument of participatory democracy that should be protected, and it is gratifying that right2water was the first of its kind to meet the criteria for a citizens' initiative. i welcome the initiative's main objective of making access to water and sanitation a human right. that is why i voted in favour of the alternative resolution which focused on this in a balanced and constructive way. unfortunately, the main resolution chose to extend its focus to a number of areas which had very little to do with the main issue of the initiative and which expressed, to say the least, illiberal values, which i could not support. that is why i chose to abstain in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ the european citizens' initiative is an important instrument of participatory democracy that should be protected, and it is gratifying that right2water was the first of its kind to meet the criteria for a citizens' initiative. i welcome the initiative's main objective of making access to water and sanitation a human right. that is why i voted in favour of the alternative resolution which focused on this in a balanced and constructive way. unfortunately, the main resolution chose to extend its focus to a number of areas which had very little to do with the main issue of the initiative and which expressed, to say the least, illiberal values, which i could not support. that is why i chose to abstain in the final vote.
madam president, i would like to thank you. first of all, i would like to thank the commission, commissioner avramopoulos, the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for their tireless work on this very important report. it responds to a great need for new life opportunities for many refugees who have reached italy and greece and who will now be able to find a new home and new life opportunities anywhere in the eu. i'm sorry that the chair in front of you is empty. that's where the council should have been. tusk, as president of the council, should have been here to take part in this debate. i'm very, very disappointed that he's not taking his leadership seriously, and i'd like that to be on the record. i think it is important that we now realise in these times that only through joint european cooperation will we be able to deal with the challenges of refugees. it is a shame, as i said, that the council is absent. but now we need to intensify our cooperation, because the citizens who have stood in thousands at train stations, opened their homes and shown humanity have more to expect from us politicians. now is the time to move from words to action.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i wonder what fantasy the speaker is living in. she also called for the eu to be more involved in the fight against terrorism and for the eu to be more involved in the fight against terrorism. what are the consequences? if people are given a choice between coming to one of europe's richest countries, sweden, with enormous benefits, what would make them choose any other country? sweden already has some 300 exclusion zones, where immigrants live in parallel communities. the rapporteur therefore sees this as a great opportunity, as it facilitates integration. how exactly does the creation of no-go zones, as in the case of sweden, where the police avoid entering, improve integration? there are areas in sweden where 56.2 percent of the inhabitants have a foreign background, much more than in our neighbouring countries. that is why we are opposed to this redistribution mechanism.
mr president, the people of europe – those in germany, austria, hungary and also sweden, for example – are writing a new page of our history. they are showing humanity and tolerance, values that unite us as europeans. germany is currently taking the lead, by virtue not of its economic power but of its moral status. it is time for the member states to show solidarity and agree on a binding mechanism for sharing responsibility. the emergency relocation measure for 40 000 asylum seekers is a good step but it is not enough. we have to save lives and treat all those coming to europe with dignity. but we cannot allow them all to stay. every member state should still carry out a humane and legally—certain individual assessment of all asylum seekers in accordance with our common rules within six months. yes, citizens have legitimate concerns on how to cope with so many coming at the same time. we need to meet those fears with concrete solutions, not populism. let us face it, the best way to deal with a new exodus in our time is to strengthen cooperation, join forces and support common institutions. it is time to reveal the true face of those who kidnap the asylum agenda, in an attempt to bring polarisation, isolation and national solutions by criticising everything and everyone without giving proposals. it is the opposite that is needed: we need more europe. it is time to change the rhetoric. in the short-term, yes, refugees are a cost, but in the long-term europe needs them. they are a benefit to our society. refugees, welcome to europe!
mr president, i would like to thank you. i welcome the keller proposal, even if it's too little, too late. the eu and all member states must urgently show greater solidarity with people fleeing war and persecution. in order to meet the demands of human rights, all countries must take their responsibilities. it is not sustainable that only a handful of member states take in refugees. a more equal distribution is a must to create a sustainable european asylum system and to help more people. for the reallocation to work in practice, all member states must effectively comply with the eu asylum legislation to which they are signatories. redistribution under this proposal is only a first step. we need a permanent and compelling system. finally, access to europe must also be facilitated for those in need of protection. the commission must urgently put forward proposals to create legal pathways to the eu. we can't afford to wait while refugees die on the way to europe.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we talk about a refugee crisis all the time. i would call the current humanitarian crisis a major political scandal, in which our member states have clearly been coloured by xenophobic forces, which have actually managed to set the agenda through the media and also to steer the whole debate. the eu must rethink its approach. we must now stand firm in our constitution and the values on which it is based. we must not be swayed by their debate. the need for rapid aid to italy and greece is not up for debate. it is necessary. however, i think there is room to develop it to support other countries outside the eu, such as serbia and macedonia. then, of course, it is completely insane, and we have to abolish the dublin regulation. it is something we must do to ensure a humane and legal reception of refugees.
for the verts/ale group. president. - the debate is closed. we will be taking a position tomorrow on fisheries agreements between the eu and cape verde, madagascar and guinea-bissau. madagascar and cape verde are tuna fisheries and are relatively well designed, so we will give our support to these agreements. the main problem with the tuna agreements is that over the years they have come to include increasingly large by-catches of sharks. in these two agreements in particular, this has been addressed and there are clauses in both agreements to reduce by-catch of sharks. we will therefore support these agreements. as regards the protocol with guinea-bissau, we think it is a hasty one and are very disappointed with the way it has been drawn up. this so-called new protocol negotiated after the political situation in guinea-bissau has stabilised is nothing but an old protocol. it looks exactly like the protocol that was suspended in 2012, when there was a military coup in guinea bissau. a lot has happened in the last few years. new chinese boats have been added, fraudulent tonnage certificates have been used, and illegal fishing has been reported. the commission was in such a hurry when it was free to renegotiate that it did not consider that it had time to make a new evaluation. it's all based on the old evaluation from 2011. how can we make a fair assessment if we are really only fishing for the surplus that guinea-bissau cannot itself exploit? this is one of the basic rules of the new external fisheries policy in the new reform. moreover, the political situation is worrying to say the least. the government was recently dissolved in august 2015, and there are allegations of corruption that also apply to fishing licenses. we shall not vote in favour of the conclusion of this protocol with guinea-bissau.
for the efdd group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. a year ago i took up this post in parliament. i have since then been constantly talking about the cabotage rules and how the transport industry is experiencing very big problems because of this very legislation, which allows for widespread cheating on our roads. we are now proposing far-reaching measures by parliament. now the commission is bringing up an ex post evaluation, which is very gratifying for all my fellow drivers back home in my country, sweden, who have organised themselves in a protest movement called here sweden stops. the commission is finally taking the problem seriously and is prepared to change the legislation. the fact that a social law is proposed is also welcome in order to put an end to social dumping, false self-employment and to ensure fair competition. we also call on the commission to take action against illegal practices which lead to unfair competition and promote social dumping. to my colleagues in the cars on our roads, i want to say: finally, something is happening to bring fairness to our roads.
mr president, i would like to thank you. in the short time available to me, i would like to refer to the situation in ukraine, which mr juncker also mentioned in his speech. what is happening on the russian side against ukraine in crimea is not worthy of a modern society. the civilian population is suffering, the number of lives lost is staggering. as elected politicians, it is our duty to act forcefully on this issue. my party has supported the demands in the european parliament, the council of europe and the swedish parliament for an end to the armed conflict and the opening of diplomatic talks. however, let me be clear to those members of the european parliament who are spreading falsehoods about our party. russia must pack up and leave crimea and ukraine and preferably yesterday. winter is only a few months away, and i fear that russia's next step is to strangle gas supplies, which will have devastating consequences for the people of ukraine. regardless of the political games played by other meps, i and our party will continue to support demands for a solution to this conflict. you have my word.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, during the last week the refugee finally got a name, an identity and a story. through a picture we have realised that behind each and every one of the dead refugees and migrants there are dreams and aspirations and loved ones left behind. it is our european decency that lies lifeless on the turkish beach together with aylan kurdi, the three-year old toddler in his red t-shirt and small sneakers. he lost his life but he brought passion – and compassion – back to the european debate on migration and therefore we will remember him for a very long time. after the recent tragedies, my heart fills with pride when i see citizens all across europe taking to the streets to welcome refugees into their communities. they have shown much more backbone and humanity during the past week than most of our politicians have done over the past decade. citizens show us what europe and european values really are all about and what europe can be at its best. yet still we hear some voices among the leaders of the member states complaining about illegal migrants. i must admit that i am quite fed up with that rhetoric by now because how is anyone fleeing war or persecution supposed to get to europe to seek asylum since it is us, the eu, that do not allow people to apply for asylum in our embassies or consulates? it is us, the eu, which introduced a directive on carrier liability that makes it completely illegal for any airline or shipping company to take on board anybody that does not have a visa. this is a vicious circle, a catch-22 situation, and we are responsible for changing it. we must review the existing asylum legislation in europe and adapt it to this century to provide for legal and safe routes to get here. we must agree to a system of binding quotas of refugees to be accepted by every member state, and my group is, of course, all in favour of the proposals by the commission. this is a defining moment for europe and our best days are yet to come.
mr president, i would like to thank you. you guys! the people have shown the europe they want to live in: an open, solidarity-based society that helps people who have fled. the europe they want to see has nothing to do with the far right and the nationalist-escaped communities. so it's time to stop conforming to their politics and their worldview. this is the end of fortress europe. the repressive policies legitimize their worldview and their politics. europe has to choose. you cannot choose between barbed wire and a policy of solidarity with refugees. that is why we support the proposals for resettlement, for increasing quotas of refugees, for finding alternatives to the dublin system, but we cannot support the repressive measures, the return, the list of safe countries and the increased military intervention in the mediterranean. we are in favour of a europe which chooses a policy of solidarity towards refugees and not a europe of barbed wire.
in writing. we have chosen to abstain on the recommendation to conclude a fisheries agreement with guinea-bissau, as we cannot support an agreement which does not have a sufficient scientific basis in line with the provisions of the basic regulation. under the cfp, each agreement is to be concluded after an assessment of the stocks to ensure that surplus is fished. the investigation underlying this agreement is several years old and since its completion there have been reports of corruption, incorrectly reported tonnage and illegal fishing.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the relocation of 40 000 asylum seekers from italy and greece. it is time to put solidarity in place with concrete actions. it is not enough, but it is an important step forward. i am also glad that my proposals to take into account in the process also the qualifications and competences of applicants were included. many refugees are qualified and that can be more efficiently integrated if the receiving country can take into account their specific skills. special attention should be give to children.
in writing. - i've lowered my vote. there is positive writing on citizen influence, democratic legitimacy and green initiatives, while at the same time emphasising further integration and harmonisation of urban policy, the consequence of which will be eu governance. that's why i choose to keep my voice down.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the middle east is on fire, but we're talking about the only peace process that's still going on, even though that peace process is practically dead. so will the two-state solution be very soon if we don't act very quickly. this is very noticeable when you visit israel and palestine, which i last visited in july of this year, in the middle of the worst heat, 50 degrees in the jordan valley, where the settlers have to buy water for about 7 shekels and the bedouins for 37. we're here to discuss the eu's role in the peace process. i think we can do that by being very clear about the settlers and their products. to make a clear distinction between what is israel and what are the settlers. we have international law at our side, and we can make a difference. we visited the village of sosia, which is also threatened with demolition. there, a car has been pushed into a water well so that the palestinians will never again be able to get clean water and then be forced to buy water through israel as well.
mr president, this debate is intended to include an exchange of views on how the eu can contribute to a renewed peace process in the middle east. let me address those blaming israel for the non-existent negotiation talks, those who also pave the way for an eu boycott of israeli products and those who name israel an apartheid state. by doing this, you are not contributing to a constructive eu role in the current situation. a trustful relationship is based upon mutual confidence and trust. a one-sided eu position will not facilitate peace dialogue between israelis and palestinians. today’s joint resolution has a fairly balanced approach. despite this, i fear that the preconceptions we have seen over the years have already damaged the credibility of the eu. israelis have noted the spread of anti-israeli sentiments and anti-semites in europe. this needs to be confronted. let us be clear: the only liberal democracy in the middle east will never be a bigger problem than the evil dictatorships and terrorist groups in the surrounding region.
(blue card) it is natural that we talk about the upcoming elections and that we are critical and question whether they will be fair. it's good that we're talking about the prisoners who are being released. however, in the long term we need a strategy, and i believe that this strategy should include support for civil society. the question is whether you, as rapporteur for the neighbourhood programme, also think that one of the eu's main tasks in relation to belarus should be to strengthen civil society.
mr president, minister schmit and commissioner! in fact, i think most of this debate has already been said. we may not agree on everything, but there is a very broad consensus on an agenda, which means that we must fight unemployment. we're going to make sure that we have a fair labor market. it's order and solidarity and dignity. jean-claude juncker made me happy this morning when he spoke about this in this house. and he did it in a very good way, in the same way that most of us have been speaking here tonight. i am glad that minister schmit, the responsible representative of the council, reiterated this, and also with the support of the commissioner. i believe there is hope, but what i intend to do now is to be a part of making it happen. enough said. enough of this talk. now we have to get to work.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has tabled an opinion. president. - the debate is closed. each environmental law is the result of a great effort by civil society, organisations, politicians and citizens. but what exactly happens in the next line? the statistics speak their own language. we see that most of the new cases of delayed transposition initiated by the commission were environmental related a total of 168 cases. i think it is regrettable, it is dangerous for the environment and it is an insult to all the people who have put a lot of energy into improving environmental policy. these are the problems we are addressing in our report. firstly, we criticise the fact that environmental legislation is all too often implemented too late. secondly, we demand that the commission be more strict with those member states which do not comply. thirdly, we must make it clear that the large number of members should not lower the level of ambition. i would also like to mention that we are clear about the refit and that we do not want it to lead to lower ambitions.
firstvice-president of the commission.– madam president, first of all let me pick up on the last point that was made and let me quote the great greek philosopher socrates about this: in the rule of law, if it is to work, all laws need to be applied. it is not an à la carte menu. if you want the rule of law to function and be respected by everyone, it should apply equally to everyone in all cases. that is what the commission’s role is: to make sure that eu law is applied according to what was agreed by the legislators, including when it is transposed into national legislation. one member raised the issue of the application of environmental law: the issue here is, indeed, partly one of late application but, unfortunately, in a larger number of cases it is about the wrong application of eu directives. the commission then has to start infringement procedures – and we do start infringement procedures because i strongly believe that, if we do not, you undermine the very principle socrates referred to, namely the application of all laws to everyone, regardless of their position, or regardless of the member state. i insist on this because i believe this commission will need to intensify its operations in making sure that eu law is applied correctly in all member states. secondly, i would like to pick up on a point about refit. better regulation makes an immediate contribution to the better enforcement of eu law. by carefully assessing the impact of new legislation – and mr kelly referred to this as well – and by consulting widely, we ensure that the legislation we produce will be clear, workable and proportionate to the aims we pursue. by producing legislation of the highest quality and by ensuring that our acquis remains fit for purpose, we will also ensure that problems of enforcement are reduced. to make that clearer: in the beginning, if you are sure that you are not just looking for a compromise in this house but you are also looking for something that can be applied in a transparent and efficient way, you will create fewer problems afterwards. all three institutions involved – parliament, council and commission – have a shared responsibility. i hope that we will soon conclude a new interinstitutional agreement on better law making, which will help us together to produce legislation that will serve the european citizen in the best possible way. a lot of complaints about red tape are not about the amount of legislation but rather about the quality of legislation which leads to undue administrative burdens. in his oral presentation, the rapporteur went deeply into the issue of austerity programmes. i did not see much of that in the report, but i did see it very much in his presentation. so let me go into that briefly: i strongly believe that economic adjustment programmes do not reduce the capacity of member state authorities to comply with eu law. on the contrary, if you do not observe fiscal discipline over a longer period of time, you will fatally undermine the capacity of the state to provide social programmes to ensure the possibility of a welfare state. it is the triangle of fiscal responsibility, structural reform and investment. you cannot pick and choose. you cannot just say that you will only invest and will disregard fiscal responsibility – which is sometimes what people on parts of the left are saying – and you cannot just say that it is all about fiscal responsibility and we do not need investment – which parts of the right are saying. you need a balance in this triangle, as was stressed again by president juncker last night. the greek and cypriot memoranda of understanding were not part of eu law, because they led to intergovernmental financial support – in contrast, by the way, to the irish and portuguese ones, which received support from the union budget. the greek and cypriot mous were formally agreed only between the lenders and the beneficiary member state. the court of justice confirmed that, when adopting and implementing measures under such an intergovernmental adjustment programmes, the national authorities of the member state concerned are not implementing eu law. i think this point needs to be assessed carefully when members discuss the report.
member of the commission.– madam president, let me start by expressing my thanks to mrs bearder for having taken this initiative and submitted this question. first of all, i would like to thank all members of this house for your constant and keen interest in addressing trafficking in human beings and keeping it high on the european union’s political agenda. let us be clear, trafficking in human beings is about the buying and selling of people and their services. trafficking in human beings is expressly prohibited in the european union’s charter of fundamental rights and addressing trafficking means upholding fundamental rights. at the same time, this is a serious form of organised crime as clearly stipulated in the european union’s treaties. this deplorable crime would not exist without the huge profits for traffickers and the demand that drives all forms of exploitation. if we want to prevent more victims falling prey to traffickers we must follow the money, both in the legal and the illegal sectors, and we must stop the flows. trafficking in human beings is now an integral part of the european agenda on migration and also of the european agenda on security. indeed, it is a phenomenon with clear links to many policy areas within and outside the european union. eurostat data indicate that for 2010-2012 the 28 member states registered 30 146 victims. eighty per cent of the victims were female and 70% of traffickers were male. sixteen per cent of registered victims were children: girls and boys. data prove that the most widespread form of exploitation is sexual exploitation – up to 69%, of which women and girls form the vast majority of the victims: 95%. over 1 000 child victims were trafficked for sexual exploitation. these data clearly demonstrate a strong gender dimension to trafficking in human beings. let me be clear, the european union has recognised that trafficking in human beings is a structural form of violence against women. it seriously inhibits women’s ability to enjoy rights and freedom on an equal basis with men. gender plays a role at every stage of the trafficking process by increasing vulnerability to trafficking, by fuelling exploitation and influencing the effectiveness of assistance and support. i am proud to say that the commission has delivered a great deal and my services continue to deliver very ambitiously on work in this direction. we have a comprehensive legal and policy framework guided by the european union’s anti-trafficking directive and the eu strategy towards the eradication of trafficking in human beings 2012-2016. the anti-trafficking directive is human-rights based and victim-centred. it is gender specific and child-sensitive. the deadline for transposition of this directive expired on 6 april 2013. the commission, as guardian of the european union treaties, initiated procedures without delay and i am pleased to inform you that, to date, 25 member states have officially informed the commission that they have fully transposed the directive at national level. only two member states have not notified the commission yet. my services are currently analysing the information provided by all member states and we will not hesitate to take all necessary steps to ensure full transposition and application of the european union’s law. the commission will be submitting the following reports to parliament and to the council. first, in early 2016, the first european union report on the progress made in addressing trafficking in human beings, as per article 20 of the directive, will be presented. member states and civil society, as represented in the european union’s civil society platform, have submitted information to the eu anti-trafficking coordinator as per article 20 and the report is being prepared with my services. this report will address the gender dimension and relevant considerations. secondly, the commission will submit a unified report under article 23 of the directive in 2016. this report will assess the measures taken by member states to comply with the anti-trafficking directive. it will also assess the impact existing national laws criminalising those who use the services of victims of trafficking have on prevention of this crime, accompanied if necessary by appropriate proposals. this report will equally address the gender dimension of trafficking in human beings, including, particularly, the measures to reduce the demand that drives all forms of exploitation. the european union’s anti-trafficking directive sets forth the legal obligation to reduce the demand that fuels exploitation, including by considering criminalising those who knowingly use the services of victims. the employers sanctions directive already criminalises those who knowingly employ victims of trafficking who are third-country nationals. my services have commissioned a study on the gender dimensions of trafficking in human beings from a renowned academic institution to examine the gender dimensions of trafficking for the purpose of sexual exploitation and measures to reduce the demand that fuels this exploitation. the study also took into consideration the recommendation of this parliament in its resolution of 26 february 2014 on sexual exploitation and prostitution and its impact on gender equality. the study will be finalised by the end of this year. the european union anti-trafficking strategy comes to an end in 2016. as stipulated in the european agendas for security and for migration, we will adopt a post-2016 strategy. we will ensure that we consult old stakeholders and ensure that parliament is kept abreast of developments. the gender dimension must be present in our post-2016 approach. ladies and gentlemen, it is imperative to continue delivering. we owe this to the victims and, of course, to our societies, to our children and to the future generations.
on behalf of the ppe group.– madam president, trafficking of human beings has become the new slavery of our time. the figures mentioned by the commissioner are stunning and the human stories are heart-breaking. commissioner, the epp group really welcomes your determination to ensure full compliance with a clear gender perspective. we are all concerned. this is serious organised crime with a cross-border dimension and it should be treated as such by all member states. the network requires a common european response, with increased police cooperation and increased judiciary cooperation with europol, eurojust and frontex. it is really time to break the circle of impunity. there should be no hiding place for these criminals in and around europe. we are calling on you, commissioner, to present as soon as possible the report on compliance, ensuring a clear gender perspective because, as you said, sexual exploitation is one of the biggest causes of trafficking, as are the protection of victims (girls, women and people with special needs), reducing demand and supply and holding the users responsible. the majority of victims of trafficking in human beings continue to be women and girls, and now increasingly migrants. therefore, your new strategy against trafficking should, as you said, have a clear gender perspective: criminalise, strengthening cooperation and tracking funds. the epp group continues to be committed to zero tolerance against trafficking of human beings and keeping gender rights on the agenda. no one should be mistreated, abused or exploited on their way to safety in europe.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group.– madam president, i am happy to hear that the commissioner will be focusing on addressing demand, but what is demand in this area? it is brothel owners and pimps, of course, but it is also men buying sex, and as in all other areas we have to address and target the market. as the honeyball report voted here last year concluded, the nordic model criminalising both the pimps and the buying of sex services has been very effective in addressing the demand. so, what should the commission be doing in targeting the demand for buying women and girls in the sex industry? so far, not enough has been done. i have read about the piece of research that has been awarded to a group of lobbyists and under-qualified researchers. i am very worried about this, and i think it is not serious. to put it bluntly, we do not need more police officers and border controls in this struggle. we need fewer brothels. so we look forward to a constructive dialogue with you to see what actions we can improve in order to make a difference for women and girls in europe.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the trafficking in human beings directive adopted in 2011 directly addresses the fact that trafficking in human beings is gender specific and affects men and women differently. what this really means is that women are affected to a much, much greater extent than men by trafficking. in particular, in the case of trafficking in human beings for sexual purposes, which is also the most common form of trafficking in human beings, women and girls represent a clear majority. this fact means that women and girls are threatened with being sold in a market where their bodies are considered a commodity that men have the right to buy and exploit. we can no longer turn a blind eye to this kind of oppression and exploitation of people. indeed, it is now time for the commission to live up to its promise to evaluate the implementation by member states of the directive adopted in 2011. it is time for the commission to take a strong stance on this issue, and then a review of the member states' actions is the least i can ask for. sex is not a human right. on the other hand, human trafficking is the most heinous crime of our time, destroying the lives of women and girls. i therefore turn to the commission and the member states of the european union and say: that's enough!
madam president, i would like to thank you. if i were a victim of human trafficking, it would mean that the people who buy my sex services rape me every time. so i'm not just another victim. there's a lot of criminal activity going on. what is happening is not happening in a vacuum, but in our societies, which have structures that allow it. i welcome the commission's proposals and actions, but we also need to see how they are being implemented in the member states. and it's not like if i get raped over and over again, and i choose to report it, i'm only going to get protection during the investigation, which means i might not be able to report it because then i'm going to be sent back to the same situation. so there must be a permanent residence permit to escape this rape slavery.
mr president, very quickly, i am sure everybody can agree to a very simple amendment to paragraph 11 – that is on the implementation of the common asylum system – adding at the end: ‘taking into account the best interests of the child’.
mr president, thank you for clarifying that this is not about amendment 11. this is about paragraph 11, to which an oral amendment would be added. we are voting on ‘taking into account the best interests of the child’.
in writing. - i've lowered my voice. the report supports and wants to develop cohesion policy and the different types of funds associated with it. the consequence of this will be further eu centralisation and integration. unfortunately, this is also one of the areas where fraud and deception are most prevalent in the eu. that is why i choose to abstain.
‒ we moderates have voted in favour of the evaluation of the european year for active ageing. it is good for member states to exchange best practice in this area, thereby refining the various national measures to stimulate active ageing and to make better use of the skills of older people. however, pension, labour market and social security issues fall within the scope of national competence. we are particularly critical of the demand for an evaluation of a new european financial instrument for minimum income. these are matters which belong to the member states and we moderates do not want to bring them up at eu level.
‒ on wednesday 9 september 2015, parliament voted on an own-initiative report on the implementation and review of the 2011 white paper on sustainable transport ahead of the mid-term review of the white paper and future initiatives in the field of transport. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's energy sector is not left behind. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road, rail and inland waterway. the moderates also want to emphasise that new business models like uber can be developed.
‒ on wednesday 9 september 2015, parliament voted on an own-initiative report on the implementation and review of the 2011 white paper on sustainable transport ahead of the mid-term review of the white paper and future initiatives in the field of transport. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's energy sector is not left behind. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road, rail and inland waterway. the moderates also want to emphasise that new business models like uber can be developed.
‒ today the european parliament voted on a report on the careers of women in research and academia. the equal opportunities for women and men in academia is an urgent and important issue. that is why i voted in favour of the report. however, there were some points in the report which in practice involve detailed control of the member states' gender equality work. i voted against them on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity.
‒ this report contained several good points, and i voted in favour of it in the final vote. i would point out, however, that i voted against parts of the text, for example those concerning quotas. i do not think this is an issue that we can best resolve at eu level.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on empowering girls through education because access to school to girls is key to equality. to insert gender equality and sexual relations education in school curricula, while respecting national differences, is important to combat stereotypes, discrimination and violence against girls. it helps to create a culture of mutual respect, where boys and girls are aware of their full potential on an equal footing.
‒ there are several aspects of this report which i doubt and do not support. this is the case, for example, with far-reaching drafts on the design of curricula, which have no place at eu level. nevertheless, i chose to support the report in the final vote, because as a whole it highlights important principles and actions in the field of gender equality.
‒ the report seeks to put pressure on switzerland on internal market issues. the background is that switzerland decided in a referendum not to join the eea. the report is based on an attitude which does not respect the choice of the people in switzerland. that's why i'm putting my vote down.
‒ i have voted in favour of the resolution/report. the resolution is a major step in the right direction for the european parliament in refugee and migration policy. the report welcomes resettlement programmes and calls on member states to increase legal pathways into europe through humanitarian visas and to allow visa applications on missions. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. however, it is important to move the debate on refugee policy forward at this time. that is why i have voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the refugee crisis in the eu. it is a common challenge that needs a european response. we have to move from emergency measures to a permanent crisis mechanism of distribution of refugees. all ms should take their responsibility and fully apply the common asylum package. the best interest of the child should be always respected in all procedures. we need to increase our cooperation in order to be able to save lives and assist member states under pressure with easo, frontex and hotspots. we also need to combat traffickers and smugglers who exploit people's desperation. europol and eurojust can play a big role in coordinating action. reception centres in third countries, however, where asylum procedures would be initiated, are not realistic at the moment. instead we should increase funding for unchr, wfp and humanitarian aid to help refugees in neighbouring countries.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution, which was negotiated by my epp group together with the other major groups. the resolution is broadly balanced, but it lacks clear condemnation of the hamas terror regime in gaza, the lack of democracy and freedom in the plo-controlled west bank, the responsibility of the surrounding arab dictatorships for supporting terrorism and the perpetuation of the refugee problem. the reports on iran and the agreement on its nuclear programme also express an optimism which i fear is unfounded. the iranian regime has not changed its character: its leadership still wants the destruction of israel and considers the west to be a mortal enemy. the resolution should therefore have contained a firm demand that any lifting of the other sanctions not related to the country's nuclear activities should not be lifted unless iran respects human rights. this was in the light of the fact that the iranian leadership had expressed the view that the nuclear agreement should be interpreted as a basis for the lifting of all sanctions against the country.
in writing. - i voted against the report. the whole report focuses on flexibility and mobility. the report says that unemployment is more about the unemployed and mobility. there is no awareness of the eu's own austerity policies as a key cause of mass unemployment. the report also shows a lack of respect for the role of the trade union movement in the labour market. that's why i voted no.
‒ a competitive eu labour market well adapted to a modern and changing labour market is crucial for the future competitiveness of the eu. this own-initiative report, with a rapporteur from the alde group, was therefore very welcome. calls for linking education more closely to labour markets, ensuring labour market mobility and reducing the tax burden on labour are important and necessary measures which i support. as a centre party member and defender of the swedish model, however, i could not support paragraph 106 on a european framework for minimum wages. this is something that the social partners in sweden should deal with, and i therefore voted against that proposal. the vote on paragraph 106 was split, and the final vote considered that the question of minimum wages should be dealt with in accordance with national practice, which i think is to leave the matter to the social partners. that is why i voted in favour of the report, since its proposals would radically improve the eu's labour market, which in turn would lead to increased growth and help the eu to emerge from the economic crisis.
madam president, my question to the presidency is very simple: why do you allow an extremist group of minority member states to block a proposal necessary to ease the pain and suffering of 120 000 persons? you should have voted and got a qualified majority on this. that would have been deliverance. secondly, my message to you is equally simple: the eu does not at this point need unanimity. we need unity today in the european union. we need action: we do not need any more ‘blah, blah, blah’. we need concrete action. there are people out there suffering in hundreds of thousands on our continent. we cannot support this anymore: it is now high time for the third of the three institutions to deliver.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the eu has completely lost control of illegal migration. to show solidarity with the refugees now coming to europe, germany's angela merkel decided a few weeks ago that the country would withdraw from the dublin regulation and in principle open up to free immigration. a lot of mainstream politicians applauded and applauded merkel for this decision. after less than a week, it was time again. merkel realized her mistake and suddenly germany introduced border controls. but we did get a glimpse of what it would be like in a europe with open borders. migrants and refugees arrived by the thousands. conflicts arise between different groups, and we even see the flags of the islamic state waving in our once so secure and stable europe. the european union is now more than ever at risk of being shaken by new acts of terrorism as a result of this senseless policy. at the same time, we are watching as people who remain in the conflict zones and in refugee camps are at risk of starvation and disease. unhcr announced this week that they are being forced to cut food distribution to refugees by 40 percent! solidarity is helping as many people as possible.
madam president, i support the relocation of 160 000 refugees, but this is not enough. member states have to move from an emergency footing to a permanent crisis mechanism, and all member states have to accept their shared responsibility. this biblical exodus is a common challenge that requires unity and a common response. there is no national solution. but it is also time for leadership in europe. we have to move from this populist rhetoric to explanations, and mobilise our citizens to help people who are fleeing for their lives. that is what it is about. we also have to show solidarity and help the member states who cannot cope. i understand that some member states, more than others, see this as difficult and new. we have the european asylum support office, frontex, the ‘hotspots’ and the refugee fund; let us use them to support member states under pressure. we should welcome anybody who seeks asylum in europe with humanity, but we cannot allow them all to stay. border controls have to be installed on all the external borders of the european union and refugees should be registered. unhcr, wfp and unicef do not have enough money in the region. it is time for all member states to respond fully to their appeal and help people on the spot, even if that is not enough.
madam president, i would like to thank you. it is with sadness and disappointment that i speak to you today. i think about all the people who knock on our door, and we keep it closed. i am ashamed that the leadership shown by the member states in the council is a political disaster. it shows total inhumanity. when i think of this, i see the image of three monkeys. you know the famous image: you don't see, you don't hear, and you don't say anything. it's got to stop. i think that parliament and the commission have shown that we see, that we hear and that we have spoken. it is time for the council and the member states to take responsibility for the citizens of europe and, above all, for the people who suffer and die while fleeing war on their way here. this is unacceptable. we can't stand this. we have a story to leave.
for the alde group. mr president, commissioner šefčovič, you are here. we have a lot of important energy union acts now. i think it is so clear how good we have been in the european union in creating a common market for all physical products. for everything we can put in a box, put on a truck and drive to another country, we have a well-functioning market. but when it comes to more intangible things, for example, or energy, we have not succeeded at all. this means that in some parts of the european union we have a surplus of energy which we cannot sell to our neighbours. it's causing us to lose energy. we are losing money, and we are losing the environment. in the arctic region, which includes scandinavia and now the baltic, we have come a long way. we have also now received a cable for our colleague kariņš in lithuania. it will be operational and functional from 15 december. it allows us to create a greater energy security. this creates a greater incentive in sweden to continue producing more green energy that we can sell to our friends in lithuania. it also creates a better economy for the entire arctic region. as we create the single market, i think it is important that we do not get too particular about the details. it will look very different in different parts of the european union in terms of the type of energy mix and we have to continue to be a national competence. what we have to do is deal with the general rules. make sure the interconnect is working. we're going to have a functioning market system. but also that the climate management system so important in the ets is working better. i think we need to do more here. the system needs to be simplified. it needs to be more market-oriented, but there also needs to be a mechanism in the system that when we have large surpluses, allowances disappear from the market so that we can steer in the direction we need to go.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i was going to speak swedish. my mother tongue. i think the energy union is a very important step. i am glad that it has become a centre for the commission and a central work there. energy and security go hand in hand. i regret that finland, by investing in russian nuclear power, and germany, by investing in russian gas, are undermining our common security by not supporting a development in which we invest in independent and renewable sources of energy. the carbon credits are a system that has not worked for a very long time. we need a strong response. we need politicians who have the courage to do something to make these things work. i am also very pleased that the commission is now putting forward proposals in this direction. i hope that parliament and the council will also have the courage to strengthen this further. because if we continue to go down this path of not allowing systems to work, it will have a tremendous impact on the ability to reset the system and meet the climate goals.
‒ today the european parliament voted on its views on the commission's 2016 work programme. the eu is facing major challenges which are also addressed by the joint resolution tabled by the liberal, christian democratic, social democratic and green groups. it is about strengthening european competitiveness by boosting investment, it is about a united foreign policy voice, it is about the fight for human rights and it is about working together to solve europe's migration challenges. the report was mostly good, which is why i voted yes in the final vote. however, there were problematic paragraphs in the resolution which i chose to vote against when they were put to separate votes. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use.
in writing. we swedish social democrats would like to give a background to our actions in three short points: as regards paragraph 11, we are not entirely unaware of the need to reduce the tax on labour, but this must be done in a way that improves the tax system as a whole. it is important, for example, that progressiveness is not eroded. green tax switching can be a working model in this respect. as regards the creation of a system of a common consolidated corporate tax base (paragraph 48), we believe that the process should be pursued further. if properly designed, such a system could provide important benefits, not least in terms of reducing tax fraud and aggressive tax planning. we believe that better coordination is needed if the eu, with the resources of the member states, is to contribute to preserving peace, preventing conflicts and strengthening international security. but we do not fully support all the language in paragraph 104 on how european defence cooperation should be extended, because we think the text goes too far in its scope. we therefore chose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ paragraph 82, amendment 45: our position regarding the ttip negotiations is that we reject any agreement which includes an investor-state dispute settlement provision that might enable investor-state claims to inhibit the capacity of the swedish government to pass legislation addressing perfectly legitimate public concerns, such as health and environmental protection, labour rights or human rights.
in writing. ‒ amendment 45 to paragraph 82 – our position regarding the ttip negotiations is that we reject any agreement which includes an investor-state dispute settlement provision that might enable investor-state claims to inhibit the capacity of the swedish government to pass legislation addressing perfectly legitimate public concerns, such as health and environmental protection, labour rights or human rights.
madam president, i would like to thank you. let's get one thing straight right now: there is no eu money. it is tax money from hard-working citizens that is being given to greece. recently, greece agreed to raise its retirement age to 67. up to now, greece has had a list of as many as 580 occupations that were considered dangerous or strenuous. those in one of these occupations could retire as early as age 50. i note that the tv presenter was one of the professions considered dangerous. ridiculous and terrifying! at the same time, in my country, sweden, there is discussion about raising the retirement age to 75. it speaks volumes about the sickness of the eu when money is taken from taxpayers in some member states and given to less diligent taxpayers in other member states. it is time to stop giving artificial respiration to greece at the expense of the taxpayers. instead, let the greeks leave the euro area, return to the drachma, devalue and get themselves back on their feet.
author.– madam president, the origin of this resolution and this debate that we are having tonight is numerous petitions that the committee on petitions has received during the past few years. as chair of this committee i fully understand, and regret to hear of, the difficulties faced by petitioners. most petitions concern the situation in spain but the same problems are also known in other member states. the committee on petitions is the bridge between eu citizens and eu institutions and, as its chair, i strive for the eu to better take advantage of citizens’ direct experiences of eu law and also the experiences of national implementation, because these experiences can help us as legislators to further improve future legislation. in this role of bringing the concerns of citizens forward to this house, we have initiated this debate tonight. as i said, we have received a large number of petitions denouncing the violation of fundamental rights and infringement of eu legislation in connection with the lack of accurate consumer information related to practices in mortgage banking. obtaining accurate information is crucial for making sound economic decisions, and of course vital when we talk about important personal investments for an individual citizen and his or her family. these petitions highlight a number of abusive clauses and practices in the spanish mortgage sector which have been identified by both national and european courts. a large number of citizens became victims of financial fraud as their savings banks sold them very risky financial instruments and they were not duly informed about the extent of the risks involved in the proposed investment; nor did the banks perform suitably tests to determine whether clients had the knowledge to understand the risk that they were undertaking. this has led to cases of terrible personal suffering and huge economic losses, where citizens have lost their home and all their life savings. many tragedies have taken place before our eyes. however, i would like to stress that the aim of this question and the discussion tonight should be seen in a wider perspective. our aim is to raise awareness and seek clarity regarding a general problem of bad banking practices that can be found all over europe, not only within spain. i would therefore like to stress that transparency and informed consumer protection will be essential components if we want to combat abusive terms in mortgage contracts and thus strengthen protection for borrowers. nevertheless, on behalf of my committee, i would like to ask the commission some questions related to this situation. i hope that the commission’s investigation and conclusions will allow us to improve the situation for the petitioners and also to ensure that we can avoid this kind of practice in the future and consequently improve the application of european union law. so, commissioner, on the basis of the petitions, a number of questions should have an answer tonight. do the petitions relate to the breach of banks’ obligations in relation to the information to be provided to clients under the markets in financial instruments directive (mifid) i, as transposed by spanish law? has spain properly transposed mifid i or have spanish national authorities properly enforced the applicable provisions? we are also asking what measures the commission has taken or will take to address the abuses committed by companies selling financial instruments that affect small depositors and small owners of financial instruments such as preferred shares, which in many cases have been marketed without full compliance with eu legislation. i would like to know, too, if the commission is willing to take measures with regard to unfair clauses in spanish mortgage law, in particular with regard to unfair commercial practices and the incorrect behaviour of the banks that provided all these people with the loans in question. i am looking forward to your answers, commissioner jourová, and also to hearing the views of my colleagues. and let me say, on a personal note, that we should be full of compassion for the people who have suffered terribly, but we should also make sure that future legislation is safe and sound for everyone in europe.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. eu peace and security policy should be about development, trade, human rights and much more and it is interrelated. that is why we often have a clash when we talk about the export of war material. i am not only referring to conventional arms exports, but also to the risks of dual-use products, which are not always regulated today. i also speak of the risks involved in exporting all this material to non-democratic states. many times, these are materials that can lead to greater security, but if they fall into the wrong hands, they can threaten both our security and human rights to the same extent as conventional weapons. the export of information technology and surveillance equipment to regimes that violate human rights is particularly risky. the arab spring has shown this, for example, with nokia and siemens helping the iranian regime to persecute democracy activists. swedish ericsson chose to provide the syrian regime with telecommunications equipment when the conflict began, which meant that oppositionists could be easily tracked by the regime. german and british technology was used against protesters by the regimes in bahrain, egypt and tunisia. democratic organisations with official eu support have been spied on, infiltrated, members tortured, killed or imprisoned. it is therefore very important that we address the export of sensitive information and communication technologies to these countries. i hope that in its review the commission will also look to find a very strict and consistent regulatory framework to prevent rather than come and put out fires.
(blue card) you and your party are for forcible distribution of these 160,000 migrants. so i'll ask you this question: when the quota runs out for these 160,000 migrants who have risked their lives to cross the mediterranean, there are 500,000 more who are not covered by the quota. what are you and your party going to do with the 500,000? i'd like some answers.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i don't know. i'm just really shocked. it feels like you're living in a bubble in this chamber. hasn't anyone seen what's going on out there in the real world? you're talking about solidarity here. for me, solidarity is when it hurts my heart to hear that the world food programme has had to cut aid to the people who really need it. you can add up the numbers, and you can see why, because a lot of the aid money that should go to the most needy goes to fund the mass immigration that we see today. in my country, sweden, we often talk about integration. i got an answer here to my blue card question that "we will integrate everyone who comes". sweden has been working on this project for many years, and it has never succeeded. so we have up to 200 exclusion zones, 55 so-called no-go zones. this is a disaster. we don't even have a place to live. we don't have jobs for them. can you imagine that sweden is now thinking about building its first refugee camp? besides, it's winter and it's minus 20.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, i would like to express thanks and gratitude to turkey, to jordan and to lebanon, which have received up to now between three and four million of the ten million syrian refugees – where we, in the eu, in our 28 countries, up to now have received approximately 500 000. we are the richest continent in the world and this is our contribution. in certain member states, and i will name names – hungary – the refugees are being met by barbed wire, a fence, they are being shot at, they are being targeted with tear gas. furthermore, the national legislation today makes sure that hungarian citizens who show solidarity and humanitarian care by sheltering refugees in their homes run the risk of being put in prison for three years, and their neighbours are now willing to inform on those hungarian citizens who take their humanitarian responsibility seriously. is this the europe we want to see, mr president? is this the eu that we want to see? not since the second world war have we had such legislation in our member states and i feel it shameful that this is where we are today. we can do so much more and we can do so much better, and the world is looking at us. when i was in the us last week, orbán gave a speech pointing out that this is the reality in europe today. if this is the situation now, then what will the future be? (applause)
mr president, people fleeing to europe should be treated with dignity, by everyone. we have to step up our common humanitarian efforts, supporting jordan, lebanon and turkey better, as well as serbia and macedonia. we need to give more funding to international organisations like unhcr and the world food programme, and increase regional support programmes. it is not enough to pledge money: funding has to be disbursed fast and through a simple procedure, and humanitarian support on the spot is not enough. i led the delegation of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) to lampedusa and our findings were that the search and rescue operation in the central mediterranean is proving effective thanks to coordination between the italian operation mare sicuro, eunavfor med, triton and the ngos. we also found that military means and eu cooperation in humanitarian operations are essential to save lives and to combat smugglers. however, smugglers are changing their modus operandi and we have to change our mandate: to broaden it and also to focus more on the eastern route from turkey and egypt to greece and southern italy. there are legal ways in: the problem is that the member states do not implement them. resettlement is the highway in, and it is time to move from a voluntary resettlement to a binding resettlement system. it is also important that all member states apply the asylum package, including registration and fingerprinting at the external borders of the european union. this is essential in order for freedom of movement and schengen to function.
madam president, i think there is a problem with the voting lists. concerning the geier report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, the committee on budgets has decided to give the report to a member who is from the same constituency as the company that is affected. i think this is very problematic. earlier there were clear rules against this, but today maybe there are not. i think, however, that this is not an appropriate way to handle things. i suggest that the point is removed from the agenda, or at least that, after this sitting, the president engages in discussion with the committee chairs with a view to discontinuing such a practice in the future because inevitably it leads to a discussion on conflict of interests. it is not good.
‒ i chose to abstain from voting on amendment 2, which says that the eu should allow greece to withdraw from the euro if it is considered to be one of several carefully considered options to remedy greece's financial situation. in principle, i think the proposal is good, but it has no place in this report, which deals with exceptional measures to provide immediate investment aid to greece.
‒ i chose to abstain from voting on amendment 2, which says that the eu should allow greece to withdraw from the euro if it is considered to be one of several carefully considered options to remedy greece's financial situation. in principle, i think the proposal is good, but it has no place in this report, which deals with exceptional measures to provide immediate investment aid to greece.
‒ i chose to abstain from voting on amendment 2, which says that the eu should allow greece to withdraw from the euro if it is considered to be one of several carefully considered options to remedy greece's financial situation. in principle, i think the proposal is good, but it has no place in this report, which deals with exceptional measures to provide immediate investment aid to greece.
‒ in the light of the extremely difficult period of financial crisis following the very high unemployment rate and the economic austerity measures that greece has been undergoing, there is scope to depart from the usual procedure of granting structural fund assistance against a certain co-financing. however, it is very important that the procedure of 100% financing by the structural funds is used only in very extreme situations. the rule must be that the funds are always conditional on a certain amount of co-financing.
‒ i chose to abstain from voting on amendment 2, which says that the eu should allow greece to withdraw from the euro if it is considered to be one of several carefully considered options to remedy greece's financial situation. in principle, i think the proposal is good, but it has no place in this report, which deals with exceptional measures to provide immediate investment aid to greece.
‒ today we voted on financial aid from the so-called globalisation fund to people who have become unemployed after european companies have closed down. i am consistently voting no to these unemployment benefits for two reasons: first, labour market policies and financial support for the unemployed should be decided on, and financed, at national level not at eu level. secondly, the fund's basic idea is that globalisation is something negative - which is not true. globalization and free trade lead to growth and peace.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today. i am doing this in order to provide workers in these cases with financial support for retraining and/or other measures to find new jobs. however, i object to the procedure of the committee on budgets to appoint a rapporteur from the region/electoral district to which the aid is directed. that's a clear conflict of interest. i would also like to stress that the widespread unemployment in the eu could be tackled more effectively if the austerity policies long pursued by the european commission and the governments of the member states were abandoned and a policy of public, green investment was pursued instead.
in writing. ‒ we believe that prosperity is created through free trade and fair competition. we therefore oppose the european globalisation adjustment fund on principle, which we regard as an expression of protectionism. we have accepted in the past that the fund was used as a purely emergency measure in a time of deep economic crisis, as a way of countering people's sense of hopelessness and the exclusion that follows in the wake of the crisis and that risks further reinforcing the wave of nationalism and xenophobia spreading in europe. however, in the light of the swedish national audit office's analysis, which suggests that the fund does indeed have a negative impact on returning to work, we believe that the fund has lost its legitimacy and should not be used any more.
in writing. ‒ we moderates are critical of the globalisation fund as such and have voted against its creation. we have also opposed the eu's allocation of funds for this purpose in budgetary votes. however, we do not dispute individual payments once the fund is in place.
in writing. ‒ i am convinced that prosperity is created through free trade and fair competition. that is why i am opposed in principle to the european globalisation adjustment fund, which i regard as an expression of protectionism. we in the people's party have accepted in the past that the fund was used as a purely emergency measure in a time of deep economic crisis, as a way of countering people's sense of hopelessness and the alienation that follows in the wake of the crisis and that risks further reinforcing the wave of nationalism and xenophobia spreading in europe. however, in the light of the swedish national audit office's analysis, which suggests that the fund does indeed have a negative impact on returning to work, we believe that the fund has lost its legitimacy and should not be used any more.
‒ today we voted on financial aid from the so-called globalisation fund to people who have become unemployed after european companies have closed down. i am consistently voting no to these unemployment benefits for two reasons: first, labour market policies and financial support for the unemployed should be decided on, and financed, at national level not at eu level. secondly, the fund's basic idea is that globalisation is something negative - which is not true. globalization and free trade lead to growth and peace.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today. i am doing this in order to provide workers in these cases with financial support for retraining and/or other measures to find new jobs. however, i would like to stress that the widespread unemployment in the eu could be effectively combated if the austerity policies pursued for a long time by the european commission and the governments of the member states were stopped. to create new jobs in europe, a new economic policy with massive public and environmentally friendly investments is needed. investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
in writing. ‒ we believe that prosperity is created through free trade and fair competition. we therefore oppose the european globalisation adjustment fund on principle, which we regard as an expression of protectionism. we have accepted in the past that the fund was used as a purely emergency measure in a time of deep economic crisis, as a way of countering people's sense of hopelessness and the exclusion that follows in the wake of the crisis and that risks further reinforcing the wave of nationalism and xenophobia spreading in europe. however, in the light of the swedish national audit office's analysis, which suggests that the fund does indeed have a negative impact on returning to work, we believe that the fund has lost its legitimacy and should not be used any more.
in writing. ‒ we moderates are critical of the globalisation fund as such and have voted against its creation. we have also opposed the eu's allocation of funds for this purpose in budgetary votes. however, we do not dispute individual payments once the fund is in place.
‒ today we voted on financial aid from the so-called globalisation fund to people who have become unemployed after european companies have closed down. i am consistently voting no to these unemployment benefits for two reasons: first, labour market policies and financial support for the unemployed should be decided on, and financed, at national level not at eu level. secondly, the fund's basic idea is that globalisation is something negative - which is not true. globalization and free trade lead to growth and peace.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today. i am doing this in order to provide workers in these cases with financial support for retraining and/or other measures to find new jobs. however, i would like to stress that the widespread unemployment in the eu could be effectively combated if the austerity policies pursued for a long time by the european commission and the governments of the member states were stopped. to create new jobs in europe, a new economic policy with massive public and environmentally friendly investments is needed. investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
in writing. ‒ we believe that prosperity is created through free trade and fair competition. we therefore oppose the european globalisation adjustment fund on principle, which we regard as an expression of protectionism. we have accepted in the past that the fund was used as a purely emergency measure in a time of deep economic crisis, as a way of countering people's sense of hopelessness and the exclusion that follows in the wake of the crisis and that risks further reinforcing the wave of nationalism and xenophobia spreading in europe. however, in the light of the swedish national audit office's analysis, which suggests that the fund does indeed have a negative impact on returning to work, we believe that the fund has lost its legitimacy and should not be used any more.
in writing. ‒ we moderates are critical of the globalisation fund as such and have voted against its creation. we have also opposed the eu's allocation of funds for this purpose in budgetary votes. however, we do not dispute individual payments once the fund is in place.
in writing. - i've lowered my voice. there is positive writing about the role of civil society and the importance of gender equality work, while the report is based on a stance that sees the private sector as the most essential actor for development. that's why i choose to keep my voice down.
in writing. this is a good report, which emphasises the role of local authorities in development and the importance of cooperation between local authorities, the private sector and civil society. i think in particular that the parts of the report which highlight the need to allocate european budget support to local authorities and to increase the decentralisation of budgetary resources are important positions to promote local development and strengthen local levels of governance.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? the volkswagen scandal must be investigated to the bottom. it is important that the commission should be clear about this. those who have manipulated the tests have not only deceived us and the system, but they have also deceived citizens, which has also meant that they have endangered the health of people. at the same time, it is important that you take note of the message from this house to also look at the tests as a whole, because we need to get stronger capabilities at eu level to ensure that the tests are complied with, work and become stronger. we also need to learn from what the united states does better and from the way they do tests in real life. and their government has stronger financial muscle, and they have tougher penalties when the tests haven't worked. we also need independent testing in the type approval process. at present, car manufacturers contract companies to carry out laboratory tests. they're not independent. take these messages from us.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the world let go when we were halfway there. that's what barbara lochbihler and i learned this weekend when we visited exiled villages in tunisia. what they mean by that is we got there, we bombed out gaddafi, we went home, but we had no plan for how we were going to help libya establish a state once we left the country. we left a country in chaos, with great conflict between people, and where weapons flowed freely in all directions and still do. what was also very clear during our visit to tunisia, where we spoke both with the tunisian authorities and with the libyans, is that there is no support for the new military operation that the eu is planning, eunavfor or the operation known as sophia. no one thought it would lead to greater security for the libyan people. it is a very private matter, so to speak, for the eu countries to stop people trying to come to us, but it does not help the libyan people in any way.
for the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. according to amnesty international, most executions today take place in communist china. then there are the dictatorships of iran and saudi arabia. in saudi arabia, executions are considered the only form of public entertainment, besides football. as in the case of the islamic state, executions are carried out by beheading and crucifixion. to hear the stories and the images of these executions is a study in evil and barbarism. at the same time, the question of the death penalty cannot be reduced to a question of procedure. the fundamental issue for any rule of law must be about human dignity. according to the judeo-christian ethic upon which our civilization is founded, criminals should be punished, atone for their actions, and then given a second chance. the society condemns the crime, but not the criminal. the death penalty does not make that distinction. the death penalty violates the fundamental principle of the right to life. today, as the european parliament pays attention to the 13th world day against the death penalty, it is urgent to highlight the values on which the european union is founded and our duty to always put human dignity first, based on those values.
mr president, i would like to thank you. there is nothing as definite as death, nothing as irrevocable. everyone, including the courts, makes mistakes. in most lands it sometimes happens that a person in prison, after many, many years, asks for and receives a resurrection when new evidence may show that he has been innocently convicted. but death is irreversible. there is no way back to life once that punishment has been meted out. the state's job is to protect, not end people's lives. the death penalty is brutal. it is uncivilized, it is illegitimate and it is inhumane. i therefore appeal today to both the presidency and the commission, which shines with its absence, to make it an absolute priority to ensure that we contribute to its eradication wherever it still exists in the world.
for the verts/ale group. president. - the debate is closed. turkey is a democracy. the last election showed that very clearly. however, it also showed that president erdoğan is not a democrat, and that since the elections he has done everything he can to ensure that his party regains power. now he's on a campaign trip to europe, paid for by state funds, i'm guessing, to get exiled turks to vote. what other parties in turkey have the financial means? yesterday, in the group the greens, we met leyla zana, who campaigns for the hdp. she believes the hdp will be able to repeat the electoral success of last summer and perhaps even increase. i really hope that she is right and that democracy will prevail in turkey for the sake of all - turks, kurds and other minorities - because we all know that the situation of freedom of the press and other human rights is under criticism. in turkey, hundreds of people have been charged with crimes for insulting the authorities, the army or islam, defending the kurds or talking about the armenian genocide. that's not acceptable in a democracy. our problem in this is that the union is looking the other way and in principle accepting what is happening in exchange for turkey possibly taking in the refugees we are sending back. however, supporting a future turkish membership is not the same as supporting erdoğan's undemocratic methods. we need to be clear about that. however, what is extremely serious is what has been raised by several, namely the breakdown of the ceasefire with the pkk and the fact that turkey is actually devoting more effort to beating the kurds than to beating isis, and despite the fact that the kurds are the only ones who have successfully resisted isis so far. it is therefore time for the eu to try to force the parties back to the negotiating table. we cannot afford the number of open armed conflicts in the middle east that we have today. this could be one of the conflicts that we could relatively easily address with more commitment from the eu. (the speaker accepted to answer a question ('blue card') in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
(blue card) i do not know if i understood the question correctly, but if it is a question of using more resources for development, i believe that we must certainly use more resources for development in the region, both in turkey and elsewhere. but of course we have to negotiate. we must be a party that can be involved in the diplomatic dialogue with the various parties in the region. it is a question of dialogue and money where necessary.
madam president, turkey – already receiving more than 2.2 million people – should be better recognised, and i welcome the eu—turkey action plan in support of refugees. turkey is part of the solution to this crisis, but we cannot only react to crises. turkey is a strategic accession country and our goal must be a long—term and stable relationship. i condemn the clampdown on freedom of expression and free media in turkey. it is incompatible with a european perspective, and the upcoming election must be free and fair. the democratic rights of all the people of turkey should be respected, and it is really important that all parties concerned now play their role by returning to the negotiating table and resuming the peace process with the kurds. in this respect, the council should be accelerating the opening of the justice and fundamental rights chapters, and we also need to accelerate visa liberalisation. turkish cooperation is essential in combating traffickers and smugglers in the eastern mediterranean, and a joint greek and turkish coastguard effort, in coordination with frontex, is urgently needed to save lives. the unhcr and other monitoring organisations in turkey need to be better funded in order to receive people with dignity. of course, turkey should be considered a safe country of return, but asylum seekers from turkey should be granted individual assessment by the member states. how can we ask turkey to host migrants and at the same time say that turkey is not safe? i shall finish by saying that the eu must keep a warm heart and a cool head to manage the important and complex relationship with turkey.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the new proposal from jean-claude junker and the commission, which is now on the table, calls for a total of €1 billion to be provided to turkey to cope with the ever-increasing flow of refugees into the country. turkey is naturally prepared to demand more resources for the candidate process in this negotiating phase, since it wants to be part of the eu. turkey should also be regarded as a safe country, despite the internal lack of security for its own citizens, and in particular for the kurdish population. how are we to interpret this? well, that erdoğan is an ugly fish. all people have the right to protection, his prime minister told the guardian newspaper, regardless of race, religion or belief - except kurds, of course. they can continue to be murdered while the memory of the eu is intact.
in writing. – i voted in favour, because i support tunisia’s wish to cooperate with the eu in the fields of research and education, and of smes, as these were the interests expressed by the tunisian government. however, my vote does not in any way represent a support for the participation of tunisia in the missions and activities of the european common security and defence policy (csdp).
in writing. ‒ i welcome the agreement between parliament and the council. it is well balanced in that it maintains the level of ambition of the commission's proposal by allowing only well-reasoned derogations from the legislation. i am particularly pleased that district heating and biomass were among these exceptions - something i pushed as rapporteur in the itre committee.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, today we are discussing the capital markets union (cmu), which is part of the european investment plan. as we have said several times before, the investment plan has three parts – the european fund for strategic investment (efsi), the project portal and the single market – and the capital markets union is part of this third pillar, deepening and widening the internal market. i personally believe that the third pillar of the plan is the most powerful when we are talking about job creation and economic growth in europe. that is why the capital markets union represents a very important part of the plan when we are trying to get more investment to europe. a couple of figures to set out the scale of the challenge we have in creating a capital markets union: europe’s economy is about the same size as that of the usa but our equity market is less than half the size of theirs; in the usa, smes get about five times more funding from the capital markets or non-bank financing than they do here in the european union; if our venture capital markets were as well developed as they are in the united states, companies could have raised an extra eur 90 billion over the past five years; and, perhaps even more importantly, the differences between the eu member states are greater than the differences between the eu and the united states. so everybody understands that there is a lot of work to be done here in europe. allow me now to draw your attention to the following three important points. first, we have been listening very carefully to the feedback provided to us by stakeholders and the european parliament. the resolution you passed earlier this summer provided useful input, as did the consultation result from over 700 responses. personally, i have visited 27 member states in the context of the investment roadshow. i received important feedback as to what to fix in the single market and, more especially, in financial services. many features of this feedback are addressed in the action plan. second, this action plan is very ambitious. the plan will have a big impact, because we have adopted a holistic and inclusive approach, covering also the framework conditions as called for by the five presidents’ report on emu deepening. in addition to commissioner hill, who is the main contributor, other colleagues – commissioner jourová, commissioner moscovici and commissioner moedas – are playing important roles in the implementation of the plan. next year we will be making concrete legislative proposals on the tax side, via the common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb), and on insolvency practices. moreover, we are fully exploiting the synergies that exist when using the different tools at our disposal. it is therefore important to judge the measures not just in isolation but also as part of the comprehensive package. i will give you a couple of examples. with the efsi we are financially supporting fresh investments in critical infrastructure projects. in parallel, the amendments to solvency ii that we are putting forward under cmu, to create a well-defined infrastructure asset class with appropriately calibrated capital requirements, should draw in long-term investors such as insurance companies. risk charges on infrastructure investment will come down by some 30%. we are also acting to re-launch a european securitisation market, both via the activities of the european fund for strategic investment and now through cmu. last week we made a proposal for a new framework to encourage the take-up of simple transparent and standardised securitisation (sts). this will define when a securitisation counts as sts, and again it will set lower capital requirements that will apply when it meets those criteria. if we could rebuild the securitisation market to the levels it was at before the crisis that could add up to an extra eur 100 billion of investment for the whole economy. with this in mind, i urge the council and parliament to take forward the proposed legislation without delay. honourable members, we managed to push the efsi regulation through in only six months. i hope parliament and the council can deliver as quickly on these proposals. these proposals are, in places, even more simple than the efsi regulation, so let us put private money to work for new jobs. looking especially at smes, here too we are working holistically to devise measures to help smes get financing on capital markets. we are looking at the prospectus, which is what businesses have to publish when they want to list on a stock exchange. unfortunately, they can be lengthy and expensive. so we will be bringing forward a proposal to modernise the prospectus directive so that these documents serve their initial purpose. they certainly need to provide clear information for investors, but they also need to be affordable for smes to produce. meanwhile, the european investment advisory hub, created under the umbrella of the efsi, will explore how to provide advisory help to smes when it comes to market experience. third, while ambitious, the action plan is credible and realistic. we are not making promises we cannot keep. we are not intervening or regulating where the case is not clear-cut and where national markets are working well. in areas where, for example, progress in the past has been difficult and where we feel more groundwork is still needed, or where the private sector is developing useful initiatives, we adopt a pragmatic step-by-step approach. this is, for example, the case for covered bond markets for private placements. personal pensions are another example. personal pensions have the potential to inject more savings into capital markets and to channel more of that money to productive investments. yet the eu does not have a single market for voluntary personal pensions, limiting choice and putting up prices. next year we will start work to determine exactly what is needed to establish a european market for simple personal pensions and we will clarify whether or not eu legislation could help to underpin that market. finally, let me stress that we will be watchful of emerging risks to financial stability. the commission is committed to working with the european supervisory authorities to strengthen supervisory convergence and to ensure that the rules of the game are interpreted with consistency across different jurisdictions. to conclude, the capital markets union action plan is a major step towards completing the single market in capital. the commission has delivered a comprehensive package on time. it is our strong desire now to work together with the council and with parliament to achieve swift agreements on our proposals for the benefit of the european economy and our citizens.
on behalf of the ppe group.– mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for this statement. as he touched upon eu–usa economic relations, i cannot but underline the fact that the european union is the bigger economy – even the us central intelligence agency recognises this. but, as the commissioner has pointed out, we do not have the magnitude and the strength of the capital markets that the united states has, and that is where we need to proceed. that is why it is very good that the commission has taken these initiatives. however, there are some things worth thinking about. the first is the gap between the liquidity we have in european markets and the lack of investments. in that perspective, something is wrong or missing. we need to look again at the regulations, and review what has been achieved over the last years in the area of regulation. it might be that some things can be done better, and it might be that some things are not as necessary as we thought they were. that is why a review is very important. i would also like to underline a difference between the usa and europe, and that is that we are, for historical reasons, more dependent on banks. that is why it is important to look upon european banks as part of the broader capital market. i would also like to say that it is important to look upon the fact that we have a number of well-functioning capital markets in the union. so an important task is to get rid of the hindrances that are making it more difficult to facilitate all the things we could do. finally, we have a number of well-functioning markets that could be used as a template and that we could use as an example. let us use them as an example and not over-regulate them. let us see to it that we regulate on the basis of using the strength of the capital markets that we have and will get in the future. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– of course we need to do that and i think an important part of that is to ensure that we can have profitable investments in the european market because that is the way to build up capital. but i would also like to underline that it is very important that banks can fulfil the whole line of financing and investment-making and market-making. because if we are changing the structures of european banks in order to reduce their opportunities to contribute to the financing of small and medium-sized enterprises, then we are making the problems worse. i think we should use what we have, but develop it and make it better.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. president. - the debate is closed. i am very pleased with the agreement on the payment services directive which we are voting on tomorrow. the negotiations have been tough. i would have preferred a stronger single market perspective and an even stronger consumer perspective. on the whole, however, the final compromise is a very good one. i would like to point out three improvements that the new rules bring. first, competition will be intensified. different types of non-bank actors will be able to compete with banks in a fairer and more reasonable manner. the so-called third parties, which offer payment initiation or account information, should be included in the regulatory framework on the same terms as any other. it creates security and safety for consumers. at the same time, it gives those operators the access they need to make the business model work. the banks should not be able to prevent them from providing their services. in addition, improved conditions for bank-independent payment systems will also be provided. new information requirements shall ensure that such systems operate more efficiently. all this will create a more healthy competitive environment in the payments market. this will in turn benefit both the consumer and society at large. secondly, the legislation will promote innovation in terms of both technological advances and business models. this will be an important effect of opening the doors to new players. we are now seeing the digital revolution sweep over the payments market as well. all indications are that a lot will happen in the next few years. the updated directive will serve as a solid foundation for this development. many consumers will benefit from improved payment services. i actually think it's perfect. thirdly, the new rules will also strengthen the role of consumers in other respects. these include significantly stricter rules on surcharges, stricter requirements for businesses in respect of transactions where the final amount is not known in advance and reducing the liability of honest consumers in the case of unauthorised transactions. the conclusion is clear. in a more competitive and innovative market, it will be easier, cheaper, safer for consumers to pay. it's clearly a step in the right direction. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur and all the shadow rapporteurs for their excellent cooperation in this process.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it has long been known that russia has used gas energy to influence various countries and stop their possible turn towards the west and the eu. some examples: in 2007, all supplies of petroleum products to estonia were cut in connection with the oil crisis. when the same country passed a law affecting estonian russians, it stopped the gas. when georgia elected a pro-western government, price increases. when ukraine did the same thing: price increases. when the monetary union with belarus failed: price increases. the baltic countries, armenia, kyrgyzstan, transnistria, georgia have all been hit by price increases. now it's the turn of the balkans. russia is in full swing in bosnia and serbia, locking those countries up too, with the goal of getting them to dance to the kremlin's tune. finally, we know that the planned expansion of nord stream will worsen the situation for ukraine. my question is: how will the commission ensure that this does not happen in the future? we saw it yesterday, we see it today. what means will the commission use to ensure that we do not see this again in the future?
mr president, it is clear that much more needs to be done to ensure equality for women in employment. the principle of equal pay for equal jobs is still not respected in all the member states. this creates inequality even later when women have lower pensions. member states should take concrete measures to eliminate the gender pay gap, including addressing the root causes. commissioner, i welcome your work both on transparency and on evaluation. to have a job and economic independence are key for women’s equality and, in particular now, for the integration of migrant women in our society. we need to create the conditions for all women to access the labour market without discrimination. the selection criteria should be based on competence and skills. it should be easier for women to start a business and to be entrepreneurs. women’s empowerment is crucial, and – as you said, commissioner – it is also for the benefit of the european economy and growth. women and men should also have the same opportunity to combine family and career. mothers are not the only parents responsible for taking care of children. member states should promote shared parental responsibility. equality at work is also about removing stereotypes and changing mentality. too many women are still victims of sexual harassment at work. as long as women are considered more for how they look than for how they perform at work, inequality will not be achieved. our fight for equal treatment should not be ideological and it should not involve imposing a model. it is about women’s individual choice and dignity. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i find what my colleague said regrettable. i do not think that there should be any discrimination at school between girls and boys. i am not aware of what you were saying, mr szanyi, but schools are a national issue. we do not deal with school texts in parliament, but we definitely deal with non-discrimination, as i said, and this is very much the policy of the whole epp group.
mr president, i would like to thank you. although anna záborská and i do not always share the same political values, i would like to thank her for this report. the situation on the labour market remains unsustainable with catastrophic disparities in equal pay and pensions. at the same time, inequality is not something exclusive to the labour market, nor should it be discussed in purely economic terms. inequality in society is based on how we look at and think about women - a mostly unhealthy view of women. this view allows company boards to include only men. it likes to see women doing the unpaid housework, and perhaps above all that it is the woman's role. when záborská and other right-wing politicians talk about this, one of the few solutions seems to be that domestic work should have a higher status. i ask myself the question: what does that solve? while this could generate an increase in economic income, the real problem remains, namely that women are expected to take on the double burden. when are we going to address the real problem, that men are taking responsibility, that men tend to work more as parents of young children and that they should take responsibility in the home? (the speaker accepted to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
(blue card) i didn't use the word "housewife" in english. there must be some mistake in the interpretation. i used "household work" and not "housewife", which is an expression we don't use anymore in sweden either.
the proposer. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the thai people are close friends of ours in europe. not least in my home country, sweden, there are many, many people who feel that thailand is their second home. however, friends must also be able to speak honestly with one another. friends can take criticism, too. the truth is that the development in thailand in terms of fundamental human rights and freedoms is very, very deeply worrying. the people of thailand deserve a life in full freedom with the right to choose their lives, the right to choose their political representatives and the right to live in a democracy. i now call on the thai authorities to ensure that respect for fundamental human rights and freedoms is restored immediately and that democracy is restored.
mr president, half a million people, half a million children, have been uprooted from their homes, many separated from their families. for six years boko haram terrorism has been terrifying the people in and around nigeria. we should strongly condemn the use of children as sexual slaves, forced marriages, recruitment for terrorist activities and any form of violence against children. our hearts today should be with the victims and their families. we should at least remember the schoolgirls of chibok, who were kidnapped one-and-a-half years ago, and the thousands of girls who are abducted in nigeria. our message should be strong: you are not forgotten and you are not alone. but much more needs to be done to mobilise support in europe to join forces with the rest of the international community to support the nigerian government and the african union to protect children, investigate these crimes and combat impunity. children should be given access to basic needs: water, food, shelter, healthcare and schooling. in the intergroup on children’s rights we will continue to keep the fate of the children in and around nigeria on the agenda for as long as it takes.
in writing. i believe that the spanish government should introduce real 'datio in solutum' in the mortgage law, which means that borrowers are exempted from further debt servicing in the event that the property is returned to the bank. i do not think, however, that the problem is transnational. that is why i do not think that there is any need for european legislation. the spanish government alone is responsible. that is why i cannot support paragraph 7 of the text.
in writing. we swedish social democrats chose to abstain in the vote on the resolution as a whole. we also chose to abstain on motions for resolutions on eu legislation on family insolvency and on the harmonisation of the terms of mortgage agreements and debt restructuring procedures. on the one hand, it is important to provide consumers with sound protection in the mortgage market. the development of the situation in spain, where many people have been forced to leave their homes in recent years, is very unfortunate. everyone must be given reasonable opportunities to deal with payment difficulties and debts. on the other hand, we are not convinced that eu legislation is the right way to go in these cases. on the contrary, we see problems. the use of the family as a legal entity can be misused in several respects, not least in terms of individual rights and gender equality. nor is it clear that eu insolvency rules would be in line with the principle of subsidiarity. in general, extended harmonisation in this area could lead to some eu countries being forced to reduce their consumer protection. that would not be acceptable.
‒ no one should have to face discrimination in the eu on the grounds of sex, colour or sexual orientation. this non-legislative report was an important milestone in safeguarding the rules and principles of anti-discrimination in the eu, and i therefore voted in favour of it. i would point out, however, that there were parts of the text which i did not vote for, such as the sections on quotas and questions of parental insurance at eu level.
regarding the wave of refugees, we need to be open to all those who flee from atrocities and criminality and who need to come to safety and security here. we need to combine that with firmness regarding our borders because that is a precondition for the handling of asylum. we need to reform in order to ensure that we can receive people and find them jobs so that they can be a part of society and also live where they arrive because otherwise we will have huge problems. but we also need to stabilise the situation in syria and iraq and in ukraine. we need to deal with both these challenges. i would like to underline that there is one common denominator and that is the power play and aggression of russia: in syria, siding with the terror of assad; in ukraine, warmongering over another country’s borders and still proceeding to destabilise another country. we need to meet both of these challenges. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. gunnar, you know what's happening in sweden right now. we have a disaster. we have an influx of 2,000 migrants a day. you're talking about integration here. we've had problems with integration for the last ten years. it's never worked. things are chaotic right now. you see how we've emptied all the apartments. we even had to build tent camps. in sweden! and in sweden, it's cold in the winter. so i don't understand how you can talk about how you're going to integrate everyone who comes when it's more or less free, open doors to sweden.
the answer ('blue card'). thank you for asking. it reveals more than it should, because my swedish colleague is quite serious about the fact that those who are fleeing the brutality of war, torture and executions should not be allowed to seek refuge. this is what the refugee question is all about. we have shown in sweden and europe that we can handle this. i can speak before the house and say that in sweden we took in a very large number of refugees from bosnia. we made sure people got jobs. they are now an important part of our society. it doesn't mean you have to be out of control. but you have to be open and, let me add, humane.
madam president, i would like to thank you. as coordinator for gender equality in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, i welcome this report and the papers now included on gender equality and human rights. i would like to thank the rapporteur for including the amendments i have tabled with other members who also want to see a fair and equal climate agreement. respecting, protecting and promoting human rights and, in particular, gender equality, the full participation of women as set out in cop 18 will be crucial if we are to meet the enormous challenges we face. technological innovation will not be enough. the only way forward is social and economic innovation. if we're going to fix the climate, we need sustainable and equitable development. we cannot have fair development without equality. we must therefore now fight to ensure that the financial mechanisms of the agreement are in place and that resources are fairly allocated to the adaptation needs of women in the countries most affected.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i think there's some sort of fateful atmosphere in here. some believe that we are moving toward the end of the world at a rather rapid pace. others think nothing will happen. i can reassure both sides that you will be disappointed. the aim of our purpose in the paris agreement must be to involve as many countries as possible. so that it is not like when we adopted the kyoto protocol once upon a time, which only covered the equivalent of 16 per cent of the world's emissions, without covering as much as possible. the second and perhaps the most important thing that we also learned from the kyoto protocol is that we beat the targets we set there by horsepower. we have gone far beyond the goals set. i think technology will prove that we are not politically mature enough to make decisions other than the ones we know today. it is therefore important that we also have the opportunity to come back, to update the agreement at the latest every five years, which i believe is the only way to keep up to date. that's what's going to make us meet the two-degree target. not the paris meeting itself.
madam president, i would like to thank you. many speak of climate change as if it were something that would happen in the future, but the fact is that it is already affecting people today. i met the marshall islands' minister of commerce in the spring and he was able to tell me how this small country, which is a big sea nation, was already hit by more storms in may than is normally the case during the whole storm season, that is, in the autumn. people are suffering today. we risk forcing many people to flee in the future if we do not act decisively. i would therefore like to thank our rapporteur for this clear report of his own initiative. it contains very clear and ambitious objectives. i am particularly pleased with the paper on the need for binding energy efficiency and renewable energy. i would like to stress, as an appeal to commissioner arias cañete who is here today, that we must also include the shipping and aviation industries which are now excluded from the text. work hard to make sure that these are not left out. it sends a negative signal to all those who have to work hard for a...
madam president, the people of ukraine cannot be forgotten. the eu should be able to handle two crises at the same time: the refugee crisis and ukraine. the humanitarian situation in ukraine has escalated, with more than 1.5 million internally displaced people, 200 000 of whom are children. there are 5 million people in urgent need of aid. the majority of humanitarian organisations still do not have access to the occupied areas, and the eu should increase its efforts to ensure freedom of movement of aid to donetsk and luhansk. i also call on the member states to do more to support the commendable process of reform undertaken by the authorities in ukraine and to implement the association agreement. ukraine and syria are two separate conflicts and should be handled as such. the sanctions against russia are linked to breaches of international law in ukraine, and the eu should stand firm and united behind them until the minsk agreement is fully implemented. the local elections will be a test of russia’s resolve to implement the agreement. let me finish by saying that we want dialogue, we should have dialogue, we have dialogue – but it takes two to tango, and russia is not playing by the rules.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the commissioner jourová! thank you for the latest colloquium. i think it was a very, very good meeting. much was said and finally we were able to come together around two forms of racism. i hope that we will then be able to talk about racism in general. there are several other groups. i think about afro-phobia and anti-gypsyism. when i listen to the debate here, when i listen to maeijer and mussolini and others talking about christians, you know that 10 million people in europe have been discriminated against and socially and economically exposed by christian people every day for 800 years. i feel great fear as a roma woman of jewish descent, in so many ways and corners. i think that you, who are sitting here, have been given a trust, you have a responsibility to future generations. i'm gonna need you to stop talking and use racism as a tool for political gain. you have to take responsibility for tomorrow. i think we should actively work against all forms of racism and the constructed fear on which racism is based.
madam president, i would like to thank you. it is very positive that a global standard for the automatic exchange of account information has been established. it is also very good that this standard will be used in the eu at the beginning of next year. the new standard is an important tool against tax fraud and aggressive tax planning, and it is a major step forward. in this context, it is entirely logical to rapidly phase out the standard used in the context of the savings directive. maintaining dual reporting systems - i.e. both for the savings directive and the new standard - would not be appropriate in this case. it would provide a little more information, but the costs in terms of red tape and duplication of work would be far greater than the value of the information we get. over the next 3-4 years, it is vital that the european commission works actively and transparently to make the transition to the new global standard work. this is not only true between eu countries, but also in relation to the five european non-eu countries and the 12 territories which are also to move from the savings directive standard to the global standard. the commission should monitor developments closely and keep it informed of the risks of loopholes and other problems. it must be clear that this reporting is not only done in a narrow circle in the council, but is also shared with parliament and the wider public. if deficiencies are detected, any measures must be proposed and taken as soon as possible. the transition to the global standard for the automatic exchange of account information is an excellent opportunity, which must be exploited in an excellent way.
mr president, i would like to convey my thanks to the rapporteur and say to mr helmer and all the others behind their borders: ‘welcome to the 20th century’. when you have arrived there, you will get the information that the rest of us are in the 21st century, where there are no borders for mobile telephones or the internet. that is why it is important and a step forward with this package, because now we are clarifying that we need a european telecom market. we are taking away some of the hindrances, but we need to do more. one of the things we need to do more is more spectrum, and i think it is important to go ahead and open up the 700 megahertz band, because that will be a precondition for europe to have the best capacities and higher speeds. to those who are advocating some sort of doctrinaire net neutrality, i would say that in reality you are hindering and blocking the emergence of new services, because you say that different services are not to be allowed to have different preconditions. we shall not discriminate and block, but we shall open up. what you are saying is not net neutrality, it is anti-net; it is not internet, because a growing and potential internet is open for suppliers and for users: that is the future. we need to go further ahead, but this is an important step forward.
‒ the european parliament voted today on a new eu law banning extra roaming charges for mobile phone use in other eu countries. this is welcome news for the citizens of europe, who will no longer be faced with skyrocketing bills just because they happen to cross the border between two member states. the new telecoms package also contains rules on high-speed internet access and so-called net neutrality (open internet). the law ensures that we will not have internet at two speeds (blocking or slowing down the internet for certain content is prohibited) and thus forces internet providers to treat traffic on equal terms. i voted for the package as a whole because it takes account of the citizens' right to an open and free internet, while preserving the possibility for certain services (e.g. alarm services) to be given priority as long as they are not provided at the expense of the quality of the open network.
‒ i voted in favour of the amendments safeguarding net neutrality and against the proposal because i am concerned that net neutrality risks being undermined by this decision. i'm a champion of an open internet where businesses and people are treated equally.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement with the member states in the council. it is gratifying that we have finally succeeded in abolishing roaming charges within the eu, although it is later than i would have liked. i would also have liked to see much stronger writing on net neutrality, an issue that i, many colleagues in the alde group and my predecessors as centre party mps fought for in the negotiations. i regret that, despite the pressure, we were unable to put more pressure on the member states. i do not think it would be responsible to vote for the amendments tabled for the plenary vote on that subject, because it would risk the whole proposal being rejected. we would then be back to square one, and i do not think the countries would have made any more concessions in the new negotiations.
‒ i voted in favour of the report. in a previous calculation commissioned by the commission, the annual losses from tax evasion in the eu member states were estimated at sek 9 000 billion. large companies in particular account for the majority of tax evasion. the eu budget deficit of €9 trillion is compared to the eu countries' total budget deficit in 2012 of about €4 trillion, or just half of what tax evasion costs. it is therefore good that the commission intends to tighten up legislation and the mandatory automatic exchange of information in taxation matters. the eu country of luxembourg has for several years been particularly distinguished for having organised its tax legislation in such a way as to help large companies avoid tax in other eu countries. i note that the prime minister of luxembourg, at the time when the country was tailoring tax avoidance laws for large companies, was jean-claude juncker. today he is president of the european commission and will therefore act against the very behaviour he himself engaged in a few years ago. it will therefore be important to keep a close eye on the commission. in the vote on the report i voted for the proposal that member states should send information to the commission and other member states about new proposals for their own taxation laws. the purpose of this exchange of information shall be to make tax evasion by large companies more difficult, and preferably impossible.
‒ the resolution on vehicle test methods was prompted by the systematic cheating of emissions values by the volkswagen group. i have voted against my own epp group on several occasions, including on the issue of transparency and public access to information on testing methods. i also voted in favour of requests that companies which have cheated be required to repay any subsidies and aid received on the basis of alleged environmental performance. this money is to be regarded as taxpayers' money and the fraud that has taken place has also distorted competition. i voted for the source code to be made available to the commission and the member states' authorities, in order to detect any manipulation devices. of course, this must be shrouded in strict secrecy to avoid leaks and industrial espionage. i voted against the creation of a federal european control authority, because the shortcomings of individual national authorities cannot be attributed to the failure of national controls as a whole.
in writing. ‒ i think it is good and important that parliament clearly signals against deliberate environmental fraud and against too poor testing methods for car emissions. european consumers must be able to trust that the car they buy actually delivers on the emission levels promised. that is why i voted in favour of the proposal.
madam president, the high representative has been addressing the issue of the stabbings in israel by saying it is vital that prime minister netanyahu and president abbas show leadership and promote calm. with all due respect, when innocent israeli civilians are being killed in repeated terror attacks, the high representative of the european union needs to do better. recent statements by the palestinian president emphasise the importance of speaking out. president abbas has claimed, and i quote, ‘the al-aqsa mosque is ours [...] we bless every drop of blood that has been spilled for jerusalem.’ two questions must be raised. when will the high representative loudly and clearly condemn the palestinian stabbings of israeli civilians? when will the commission deal with the hateful propaganda and anti-semitism of the palestinian leadership?
madam president, i would like to thank you. there is no doubt that more judges are needed in the court of justice of the european union. the number of cases decided by the general court is far less than the number of cases received, which leads to delays and legal uncertainty and, in the long run, to overcapacity. let me be clear, though. the way the council is doing this is obviously childish. it is probably insulting to children to call it childish, since they would surely find a better model. however, we are now in a position where we must move forward with this matter if we are to take responsibility for the rule of law. that is why parliament has no choice but to go ahead, but in return we must make sure that we demand our part, that we demand a court of equal justice. today we see that the proportion of women in the tribunal is only 21%, and in the court of justice of the european union only 18%. it's bad for all the competent women who would do a good job in court.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. today's vote is the result of work and negotiations, which have taken a lot of time and a lot of meetings. i would therefore like to thank james nicholson for his great contribution to the work, especially in view of the fact that the question of novel foods evokes so much fear and emotion. during the work, we were told what would happen if we accepted new foods. we would be eating kilos of meat from cloned animals, we would be eating live insects, we would be poisoned by nanomaterials, and so on and so forth. so it feels quite good to be able to state the obvious, namely: no, it will not happen. if you press the yes button, very few things will happen, very few unpleasant things. you will not eat cloned animals, you will not eat food that is not approved and tested, and you will not lose your tongue if you taste some new exotic fruit. i promise you that the sun will rise again tomorrow and that we will have people out there who think that politicians don't know anything about it - i can guarantee that. what will change is that experts will tomorrow decide unanimously across the eu whether novel foods are approved and safe. it will be decided by science, not by emotion. we will have a predictable eu system that reduces the time and procedure for approval. one more thing. some of us will even try a new exotic fruit, but that is not mandatory, it can be avoided. i would like to end by thanking all those who will be pressing the "yes" button. thank you for conquering fear, thank you for treating new foods the same way you treat new medicines, and thank you for showing that you are not afraid. we in the alde group would like to see ourselves as such people and will therefore support the proposal.
madam president, i would like to thank you. this is what many have pointed out as both climate reform and health reform. colleagues, let's not forget that this is a health reform. every year - and many have pointed this out - hundreds of thousands of people die prematurely in the eu, and in sweden five thousand prematurely because of air pollution. we spend billions of dollars on health care to try to save lives when sometimes it's too late. so it is important that we work preventively to save lives in the future. this is also climate reform many have mentioned it. methane is actually one of the most dangerous greenhouse gases. if we are serious about being a union that takes responsibility for climate policy, then we must also regulate methane in a sensible way. here is our chance to do so. let's not lose it.
mr president, i notice that ms le pen is not here. i would like you to kindly check what is happening with her vote and her neighbour.
in writing. – i welcome the adoption of the paragraph on a roadmap for a single seat for the european parliament, and the fact that parliament has reiterated its call for a single seat. we need to be able to decide when and where to meet. this is an important step towards a more efficient parliament. i am the chair of the single seat steering group because i am committed to creating a more effective parliament. european citizens are asking for this. they do not understand why, or accept that, we waste eur 114 million and 19 000 tons of co2 every year on commuting between brussels and strasbourg. a majority of this parliament has repeatedly voted in favour of the savings of a single seat. this is a vote in favour of a more cost-efficient parliament. we stand ready to pursue a constructive dialogue with all those who want to find viable solutions for all the european institutions’ seats. i therefore encourage guy verhofstadt to bring this forward in his ongoing report in the committee on constitutional affairs, in line with the decision of the conference of presidents of 11 february 2015. the deadlock must be broken. now it is time for the member states to take shared responsibility and to act.
‒ the eu budget for 2016 must be used in the best possible way. an example of this is to allocate as much as possible, within the limits of the multiannual budget, to the effective reception of refugees and migrants in the member states. it is a pity that the council does not share this view. the eu budget must be modern and clearly focused on research, entrepreneurship and key future issues such as climate and the environment if we are to meet the challenges of tomorrow. this is not automatically equivalent to an increased budget. on the contrary, there is scope for considerable savings and re-prioritization, including within the european parliament. i have therefore voted in favour of a revision of the so-called members' statute. i do not, however, share the view that we meps should decide on our own salaries, fees and allowances.
in writing. we swedish social democrats voted to abstain in the vote on the package agreement for heading 1a (competitiveness for jobs and growth). for us, several items in this part of the budget have a very high priority. there are well-functioning businesses with clear european added value. investments in research under horizon 2020 and infrastructure under the connecting europe facility are among the best of eu cooperation. we welcome the strong commitment to these programmes which the committee on budgets - and now the whole of parliament - advocates. the general approach is that the programmes should be affected as little as possible by the creation of the efsi investment fund. at the same time, we have doubts about the way this issue has been handled in the budgetary process. the efforts should have been compensated by appropriate savings in low-priority parts of the eu budget. since this has not really happened and this is contributing to parliament being over the mff ceiling for the budget as a whole we cannot fully support the solution for heading 1a.
‒ the eu budget must be modern and clearly focused on research, entrepreneurship and key future issues such as climate and the environment if we are to meet the challenges of tomorrow. this is not automatically equivalent to a high budget. on the contrary, there is scope for considerable savings and re-prioritization, including within the european parliament. i have therefore voted in favour of a revision of the so-called members' statute. i do not, however, share the view that we meps should decide on our own salaries, fees and allowances.
in writing. - i voted against the budget report. the budget is too large and too comprehensive. there should be major cuts. agricultural policies result in overproduction and negative effects on the environment, climate and livestock. another example is the unmanageable regional and structural funds, where there is widespread fraud. i am opposed to the frontex initiative, which means the continuation of the construction of fortress europe, which forces people fleeing war and oppression to risk their lives to reach a place of refuge. initiatives to increase the militarisation of the eu are the wrong way to go for a union which claims to defend human rights and is a peace project. i object to the fact that the eu institutions have such high budget accounts. measures are needed, including reductions in excessively high wages, allowances and the like. i voted in favour of texts and budget lines that sharply criticise the eu's macroeconomic austerity policies, which are deepening the crisis within the union, and proposals aimed at efforts to promote gender equality, combat racism and xenophobia, and support for life-saving and humanitarian operations to help refugees and asylum seekers. in principle, i think it is wrong for the european parliament to have power over the budget. the member states that pay the eu budget should have full say on the union's expenditure.
‒ i support the content of the amendment which seeks to reduce members' fees. i abstained, however, because it is not possible to change this in the budget, but it must be changed in the statute, which stipulates that the salary of members shall be 38,5% of the basic salary of a judge of the court of justice of the european union.
‒ we support the content of amendment no 9 on paragraph 97 which seeks to reduce the fees of members but abstained because it is not possible to change this in the budget, but it must be changed in the statute of members which says that the salary of members should be 38.5% of the basic salary of a judge at the court of justice of the european union.
‒ the eu budget for 2016 must be used in the best possible way. an example of this is to allocate as much as possible, within the limits of the multiannual budget, to the effective reception of refugees and migrants in the member states. it is a pity that the council does not share this view. the eu budget must be modern and clearly focused on research, entrepreneurship and key future issues such as climate and the environment if we are to meet the challenges of tomorrow. this is not automatically equivalent to an increased budget. on the contrary, there is scope for considerable savings and re-prioritization, including within the european parliament. i have therefore voted in favour of a revision of the so-called members' statute. i do not, however, share the view that we meps should decide on our own salaries, fees and allowances.
‒ we support the content of amendment no 9 to paragraph 96, which seeks to reduce the fees of members, but abstained because it is not possible to change this in the budget, but it must be changed in the statute of members which says that the salary of members should be 38.5% of the basic salary of a judge at the court of justice of the european union.
in writing. - i voted for this deal. i am aware, however, that it is far from perfect: 28 new judges are more than needed, but it proved impossible to get the member states to agree to another solution in the council. for the sake of legal certainty, we must therefore move on citizens and businesses suffer when the court does not deal with cases in time and i supported the compromise.
‒ today the european parliament voted on a report on the use of genetically modified food and feed (gmos). the commission's proposal to allow individual member states to ban gmos was rejected by a largely unanimous environment committee for two main reasons. firstly, there was concern that the proposal would lead to a dismantling of the internal market and cause trade-related problems with the outside world. secondly, the proposal was seen as a way of back-channeling the integration of gmos into the internal market. i therefore voted in favour of the environment committee's line of rejecting the proposal, guided by the precautionary principle and the expectation of clear impact assessments from the commission.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report. genetically modified organisms (gmos) are controversial and face strong opposition both in sweden and in the eu. the left party is critical of gmos and believes that the precautionary principle should be safeguarded in the first place. this was the second time the commission had put forward a proposal on gmos, and although the commission had substantially improved them and given member states more scope to say no to gmos, both the left group, the greens and the socialist group agreed that stronger proposals were needed as more loopholes remained. that is why i voted to withdraw the motion, but also to support the resolution at the end.
‒ i voted to reject the proposal as a whole, as it does not take into account existing research and science. the proposal would also constitute a direct obstacle to the single internal market in the eu. if the proposal were to become a reality, it would also severely restrict trade with the outside world without any factual basis. against this background, i welcome the rejection of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ i think it is important that there is a good scientific basis for decisions and that authorities with expertise, such as efsa, can play an important role. that is why i voted against the motion.
‒ the european parliament voted today on a report on 'new foods'. the aim is to facilitate the entry of foodstuffs with altered molecular structure, consisting of micro-organisms, fungi or algae, etc., onto the european market. i voted for the compromise that was voted through in the committee on the environment, as i want to see new legislation in place as soon as possible. i also welcome the fact that this compromise contains transitional provisions for food from cloned animals.
‒ i have voted against the report. new food is a positive thing in itself, but there are too many shortcomings in this regulation. the report covers both novel foods, cloned animals and nanomaterials and their use in the food sector. the final proposal lacks sufficient safeguards for the precautionary principle and thus fails to put consumers and food safety first. our more stringent amendments were voted down. finally, it is important to invoke the principle of subsidiarity. the member states which do not want this type of product should have the right to regulate their own market. however, it is doubtful how this will be followed up when the eu is now voting on a regulation that puts the main power at eu level. in view of this, i have decided to vote against the report.
in writing. - we voted for the agreement with the council. the legislation means we'll be able to approve new foods more quickly. this is a positive development, especially since the existing legislation is an obstacle to food production. the law requires labelling and thus traceability of cloning, which could conflict with wto agreements and create other trade-related problems. it is unrealistic to require all our trading partners to introduce traceability systems for cloned animals. despite this objection, we voted in favour of the proposal as it is important to have a new system for the speedy approval of novel foods in place.
‒ a prerequisite for the development of europe's food sector is the existence of a regulatory framework in place that allows for the approval and launch of new innovative products on the common market. the proposal provides for a fully harmonised eu-wide procedure for the safety evaluation and authorisation of innovative food products. in addition, the european food safety authority (efsa) shall carry out an evaluation in all cases where food may have an effect on human health. the proposal provides the conditions for development and consumer safety. i have therefore voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. - we have voted in favour of a council agreement on so-called new foods. the legislation means we'll be able to approve new foods more quickly. this is a positive development, especially since the existing legislation is an obstacle to food production. the law requires labelling and thus traceability of cloning, which could conflict with wto agreements and create other trade-related problems. it is unrealistic to require all our trading partners to introduce traceability systems for cloned animals. despite this objection, we voted in favour of the proposal as it is important to have a new system for the speedy approval of novel foods in place.
‒ when the european parliament voted today on the so-called 'co-decision' directive on national emission ceilings for sulphur, nitrogen and other combustible gases, i voted in favour of the commission's proposal. this proposal will reduce emissions by 70% of what is technically possible by 2030. this will result in better air quality, which will have positive effects on both human health and the environment. i voted against the requests which wanted to go further than the commission because, unlike the commission's proposal, they do not have an impact assessment.
in writing. ‒ i voted for an ambitious air pollution policy and i am glad that this line was heard in the european parliament. the strict limit values adopted by 2030 are estimated to be able to halve the number of premature deaths caused by air pollution each year, which currently stands at around 400 000 in the eu. air pollution causes ten times more deaths than road accidents, and it is time for eu member states to do more to tackle the problem.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the future revision of the european citizens’ initiative (eci). we need to address the challenges that citizens have encountered since the adoption of the regulation in 2011. cutting red tape and increasing citizens’ access to information about the eci are crucial in terms of raising awareness and encouraging more citizens to get involved. eu offices in the member states should be used more to inform citizens about this great opportunity for them. the reasons supplied by the commission for refusing citizens’ initiatives should be detailed and clear. organisers should be better informed about their rights after a refusal and about which parts of their initiatives they may correct. citizens should be encouraged, not demotivated. i am glad that, as representatives of european citizens, we showed a strong commitment to review the citizens’ initiative regulation so as to ensure that citizens will fully enjoy this new right.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would also like to thank the whole team of colleagues, the rapporteur, the commission and of course the presidency, which is unfortunately absent from the house today. we have all worked very well and constructively over the past few years. sometimes there have been tough, sometimes tough, discussions between us. however, we are now at the finish line, and i think we should all be happy about what has happened. the challenge now will be to strengthen cooperation, to exchange experiences and best practices between member states and the various law enforcement authorities across our union. of course, i regret what we as liberals had as a guiding light, namely the merger of cepol and europol. it would have brought positive synergies, and it would have saved a lot of money for our taxpayers across the eu. but now it was not, and we are forced to realize that it was a majority that looked different. what is particularly positive now is that cepol now has in its job descriptions and conditions to strengthen respect for fundamental human rights and freedoms and to engage in crossborder law enforcement cooperation in a different and more up-to-date way. as we know, criminals do not know the borders between countries, and it is therefore very strange that our law enforcement agencies should not be able to work at least as effectively across borders as the criminal gangs they are supposed to fight. so now there are conditions. i think we're putting history behind us and realizing that we have everything to gain by working together even more. once again, i thank all concerned for the excellent cooperation. it's my pleasure, mr. president. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by means of a blue card (article 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
blue-card answer.– as i put it in my speech, what we are seeing today is that criminal transnational gangs do not feel those borders between nations. i find it quite remarkable that there are still, in this globalised world where we are, and also in this union, people like yourself who believe that putting up fences, working nation by nation, would be efficient. i believe in an enhanced cooperation between nations in order to combat these transnational criminal gangs that are actually putting ordinary people in a very difficult situation.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i'm torn as to whether cepol is or isn't. on the one hand, the situation in which the member states find themselves calls for increased police cooperation, and on the other hand, i realise that the main reason for this need is precisely the open borders imposed by the eu. this is a typical example of how the brains behind the eu project first create a problem and then present a solution which usually also has the effect of increasing the eu's power. in the situation we are in today, with a schengen regulation which allows people to travel freely, we see an increase in drugs, human smuggling and trafficking. how can cepol train our police when politicians can't even cope with the problems we see today and, above all, don't even want to acknowledge the cause of them? in order to make it easier for our police, it should be reasonable to allow member states to maintain their border guards.
for the alde group. president. - the debate is closed. it is high time that we abandon the rhetoric and the eulogy and instead stand up and seriously defend the basic human rights, which mass surveillance is absolutely not a part of. there is no room for mass surveillance of citizens for liberals. the developments are worrying all over europe. we are actually seeing several steps backwards in terms of the very views on privacy and data protection. instead, the starting point seems to be increasingly based on the erroneous assumption that the more data we collect, the safer citizens become. nothing could be more wrong! my group deeply regrets that the council and the commission have consistently refused to answer parliament's questions, which we first raised over a year ago in the debate on mass surveillance. we are also very concerned about the legislation now being drawn up in several member states, where bulk storage of data is now becoming a practice. the uk passed a law in 2014 that now needs to be reviewed because the high court has declared it invalid. germany has just decided on new data retention legislation, and france has introduced the possibility of mass surveillance of citizens for its intelligence service. we are also deeply concerned about the dutch intelligence legislation. i would urge my liberal colleagues in the dutch government to take carefully into account yesterday's prakken d'oliveira judgment. that ruling prohibits the surveillance of lawyers' communications until an independent review is in place. the european court of justice's decision last week on safe harbor should also be a wake-up call to everyone. the judgment states that the us mass surveillance is not compatible with the laws and principles of the eu. we must now start sweeping up our own front door and not be dependent on the courts to correct the legislation which we should collectively take responsibility for ensuring that it actually puts fundamental rights at the centre. it is the duty of all of us not to protect governments but to protect the fundamental rights of citizens and to defend european values.
member of the commission.– madam president, i would like to thank members very much indeed for this very lively debate. it sends a very strong message – which was commented on before – that representatives of all parties are here discussing this issue. as stated in my introduction, the commission is aware of the different arguments for and against. i have spoken personally with many member states, asking them for their opinion, and i have to say that opinion is divided. it is not as coherent as members are being here. there are indeed many studies examining potential impacts on health, but there is still no really strong argument to be gained from them at this time. i agree that the challenge is greater than we are sometimes willing to admit. i hear what members are saying – honestly – but let me also stress that my strong motivation is to keep the single market alive and to have a unanimous decision on this issue at european level. so, at this stage, the commission is not considering changes to the relevant directive but, should new evidence emerge and a more systemic approach be put forward, we would be willing to reconsider that position.
member of the commission.– madam president and distinguished members of parliament, drones are a technology which has already changed the way we do things and which creates opportunities for new services and new applications. unmanned aircraft are able today to perform missions that are not conceivable or economically not feasible with manned aircraft, ranging from safety inspections – as already pointed out – and monitoring activities to precision farming operations or assessment of natural disasters. the range of drone applications for civilian use is developing fast, underlining the significant economic potential of this sector to contribute to growth and jobs in europe. everybody acknowledges the enormous potential of drone technologies, yet citizens are also raising concerns about drone operations: hence the challenge for us to come up with rules that strike the right balance between promoting this promising technology and adequately protecting our citizens. it is our conviction that only common european rules would provide a solid basis for promoting investment in, and facilitating the development of, drone technologies while duly protecting all our citizens. that is why the commission greatly welcomes the support for this approach in the foster report. i would really like to thank the rapporteur, ms foster, for her great work and her efforts in bringing together the views of different political groups in her very comprehensive report. the commission agrees with the report’s call for a clear, harmonised and proportionate eu regulatory framework, removing the current 150 kilogramme threshold separating eu and national competence. we need to go for common rules for all drones, regardless of weight. but please understand me, this does not mean that every drone operation requires heavy-handed regulation. the commission agrees with the report that we need to evolve towards an operation-centric approach to safety rules that are proportionate to the risk associated with a particular operation. these ideas are already being developed by the european aviation safety agency and the joint authorities for rulemaking on unmanned systems (jarus), where experts from the european member states play an active role together with experts from the us, china, japan, brazil, canada, and many more. the commission also supports the idea that safety rules could be supplemented by internal market or international commerce rules, using leaflets, for example, to make each drone user aware of possible risks. the commission is aware of the need to let drones operate further away from the ground station, in other words further than the pilot can see. if drones are allowed to operate over a longer distance in one mission, the cost of the operation will decrease drastically, and wider-range operations will encourage innovative businesses. and yes, we should find sufficient r&d funding to finance the missing technologies. while we support the development of drones, public acceptance of drone operations is key, and we therefore agree that adequate enforcement of safety and other existing legislation, for instance on privacy or data protection, is crucial. however, there are a number of other aspects related to drones, such as security, environmental protection and liability, and these also need to be addressed. let me conclude: the commission greatly appreciates this report on drones, which will significantly contribute to steering safety rules in the desired direction and to the commissionʼs ongoing work to lay down an enabling framework for drones. the topic has been thoroughly addressed in the aviation package, and i hope that we will be able to proceed swiftly in the near future.
the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs has tabled an opinion. president. - the debate is closed. drones are becoming increasingly important in our society both commercially and for performing vital community services. a key use of drones is the monitoring of people, often without their knowledge. these days, anyone can buy a drone with a camera or other equipment. eu privacy and personal data protection legislation must be respected in a civilian drone market. this is non-negotiable and cannot be countered by commercial interests. the commission must carefully investigate the risks posed by a market for civilian drones and inform the public about them. the commission must also come up with a proposal for a regulatory framework that everyone can feel safe with. we also need to look at how intelligence services use drones and how we can ensure that our fundamental rights are not violated.
for the efdd group. president. - the debate is closed. drones are a growing business with a very high potential. in any case, i believe that clear rules are needed for this market to allow for further investment in technology. people are often skeptical of new ideas. just think of the infancy of flight -- most people dismissed the men who developed airplanes as crazy people. today, i think very few of us could imagine a world without the ability of flight to move quickly between different continents. a trip to the united states in the past, at least from my home country of sweden, was about a couple of weeks. technology is thus evolving and advancing all the time. the problem is that we often have difficulty in taking it in before we see the practical possibilities of it. the industry can therefore become very large in this market. it is large and can become even larger, but it also requires very clear rules of the game in the market, because no company would dare to invest a lot of money in a novelty without knowing what the rules of the game are. well, integrity is, as i said, a very sensitive issue. who wants a drone over their head when they're sitting in the garden drinking coffee? so this is an aspect that the legislators need to look at, so that privacy is protected. but i see great social opportunities in technology.
for the efdd group. president. - the debate is closed. ladies and gentlemen, tourism is an area which i believe the eu should keep its fingers very far away from. tourism is a national, a regional and, indeed, mostly a local issue in each member state. it is the unique characteristics of each country that attract tourism. in sweden, it is the beautiful nature with fresh air and great opportunities for silence and peace and quiet. in spain, for example, it's the sun and the heat. i do not want to see the bizarre ideas of the eu being incorporated into the tourism sector. i am sure that the vast majority of you in this house will vote in favour of the proposal. you have long since betrayed your countries and your constituents. you are giving up your countries' sovereignty and self-determination bit by bit on every issue without any qualms whatsoever. let me remind you that people have tried to build great empires before, but they have failed every time. it will fail this time too. (the speaker agreed to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).
(blue card) i am terribly sorry, but the eu has so far, since its birth, not achieved anything that can be called high quality. i'm pretty sure they won't do that in this area either. it is the unique characteristics of each country that bring tourism. if the eu is going to put its finger on it and try to level off tourism within the eu, then i am afraid it will have the opposite effect. the experience so far from the eu is far too bad. this is definitely an area that the eu should keep its fingers off.
member of the commission.– madam president, the commission wishes to thank the european parliament and the honourable member mr cramer for this question, which reflects the specific worries and expectations of a great number of european citizens. we fully support steps in the direction of global flight tracking, such as the ads-b (automatic dependent surveillance – broadcast) system, and we look forward to further steps being taken on the basis of the legislative work i outlined in my introductory remarks. i hope that this clarifies the efforts being made by the commission for the definition of commonly acceptable safe and cost-efficient solutions for global flight tracking. we look forward to close collaboration with parliament and the council for the timely adoption of the proposed specific legislation.
mr president, yesterday i raised the issue of ghost voting by marine le pen, co-chair of the enf group. i would like to inform the chamber about the results of the investigation. i would like to thank the plenary service for their professionalism and fast reaction and i would like to call on the president to make full use of rule 166 in association with rule 177 which clearly states that the vote is personal and that every parliamentarian is responsible for his vote. (applause)
in writing. ‒ i fully stand for privacy and fundamental rights. mass surveillance programmes should be condemned and intelligence activities submitted to democratic oversight. however, i could not support the resolution today. it is not responsible to ask for the suspension of the tftp agreement, which is a proven tool to prevent terrorism and an important legal framework to protect european citizens’ data. asking that all legislation concerning data processing should stop or be revised after two years would create legal uncertainty, not protect citizens’ privacy. encryption, a useful tool, should not become the only solution to increase privacy online. law enforcement authorities should be able to access data, in defined conditions, to investigate and persecute crime. allowing greater eu it independence, thinking that this would protect more eu citizens online, would lead to fragmentation of the internet and protectionism. while it is important to adopt at national level legislation that takes into account the situation of whistle-blowers, asking to give protection to edward snowden and for a european programme of protection of whistle blowers is not the way forward. it is all about finding the right balances. we need to protect privacy and ensure security for citizens. and today, this balance was not reached.
in writing. we swedish social democrats voted in favour of the resolution on the electronic mass surveillance of eu citizens. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the principle of proportionality. we have full respect for snowden's important disclosures and his status as a "whistleblower" but do not believe that elected officials should interfere or try to influence the work of the courts. we therefore voted against this amendment.
in writing. ‒ order is important in the eu's different economies, and we need control and coordination. although i voted in favour of the final vote, i would point out that there are many areas where the eu level should not decide: the commission's recommendations should not be binding, and the constitutional rules of each country must determine how national parliaments handle budgetary votes and the like.
in writing. - i've lowered my vote. many points in the resolution are positive and underline the importance of measures to reach the longterm unemployed and open up opportunities for them to re-enter the labour market. the resolution, however, makes no mention of the austerity policies pursued by the european union, which have in many cases been imposed on the member states. it is a fundamental cause of mass unemployment in the eu. to combat longterm unemployment and the crisis in europe, a new economic policy with massive public and environmentally friendly investments is needed. investments for the benefit of society are required not only in education, health and care but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems. since the resolution does not have the broader perspective, i choose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ for the centre party and the alde group, the fight against unemployment is one of the most important issues. more people in work means more people in power, and that also means a more stable economic situation in europe. the resolution was good overall, but i want to clarify two of my votes. firstly, i think it is important that the social partners play an active part in the fight against unemployment. secondly, i do not think that it is necessarily a good policy to give more financial support to public employment services. the centre party in sweden has put forward a number of proposals on how the employment services can be changed and reformed, in order to open up private employment services, among other things. i think that is a more important part of the fight against unemployment than focusing on the public employment services.
‒ i have decided to abstain from voting on this report. the report focuses on drones in civil aviation and highlights the importance of the protection of personal data, the right to privacy and other fundamental rights, which is good. however, i cannot support the paper which stresses that an integrated civil/military air traffic service will make it easier to integrate rpas into israeli airspace. i will never be able to support a report which legitimises drones for military purposes or israel's war against palestine.
‒ i have voted against this report. the report aims to establish a single european tourist agency to promote the european tourist industry. the report is both pro-federalist and harmonising and it proposes that new money be allocated to this area. i believe that spending more money on tourism at a time when welfare sectors are being cut is the wrong priority. these are the main reasons why i voted no.
mr president, i think it is important that the commission takes note of two things in its annual growth survey. one is the change in and the challenge of the global economy. when i listen to the debate in this house, it is as if the changes in the global economy are not there – we are maybe looking at the internal market but not at the external one – but the fact is that it is very much the increased supply, increased productivity and increased competition we see today in the global economy that is the challenge to the european economy. where we lack competitiveness we are also suffering increased deficits, and that will not help with the increased spending. and that is the other thing to take note of in the survey report: that wherever you are trying to perform a policy without considering the realities of the global economy, by leaving the rules of the stability pact you are undermining the national economies. that is a very clear and obvious pattern. where you have stabilised public finances and fiscal stability, you have in most parts of europe growth or growth has returned, but where you are trying to solve the problems by increased spending, you get increased taxes and increased deficits and less employment. that is the truth and we need to know that. that gives hope for europe, because then we see what to do; maybe less hope for socialists.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i am very much looking forward to this proposal coming in december. in recent years, we have seen the aviation job market become more and more like the wild west, with airlines being flagged, safety margins being squeezed, wages and working conditions being dumped by rogue employers. this is a threat to long-term security. that's why we have to stop it and then we have to have legislation in place. it is important to strengthen european cooperation in this area. we cannot allow security issues to fall between the chairs of different national authorities. the mandate of easa, the european aviation safety agency, must be strengthened. if there is any issue where there is popular support for a stronger european mandate, it is in the area of aviation safety. finally, there is a link between worsening conditions of employment and worsening security. therefore, these issues must be dealt with together.
mr president, i wanted to ask you what the status of parliament’s enquiry into the voting fraud of mrs le pen is, as the president had said that this house would be informed of the results. also i would like to say that a part of the truth has been hidden, as mrs le pen has admitted that her co-president, mr marcel de graaff, has voted for her in her place, but she has omitted and hidden from us the fact that the secretary-general of the front national, nicolas bay, has also been voting on her behalf on the legislation on emissions, the volkswagen case. i would like to kindly ask you to take into account in the parliamentary enquiry also this second fraud in voting, both by the co-president and the secretary-general.
madam president, i would like to thank you. every life lost on the way to europe is one too many, and that is regardless of the reason for fleeing, whether fleeing the war in syria or fleeing poverty in africa. as minister schmit said, these barbed wire fences will not stop the refugees or the other migrants. perhaps you can get in but then you are sent back, because we want to send back the other migrants, as we hear all the time here, so they will come back anyway. unless we work on the root causes of why people have to go on the run. that is where i think we have to put the big work. what i am a little afraid of when i read the council decision of 20 october is that there is too much focus on the issues of migration and closing borders and so on, and too little focus on the long-term work for better development in the countries of origin. i'm afraid we're taking the focus off the long-term, in addition to money that we're also taking off the long-term aid work, and putting it more on border controls and stuff. i hope that's not the case. but then we have another problem too, and that is the budget, as many have mentioned; that many countries are reducing their contributions. it is also true that the reception of refugees in europe is also counted as aid, and there too large sums.
madam president, i would like to thank you. on 6 november, it was 40 years since 350,000 moroccans marched across the border into western sahara. while the media was watching the march, the army began its invasion a few miles away. this was the beginning of a long-standing armed conflict between morocco and western sahara. in 1991, a ceasefire was signed between the polisario and morocco and the referendum was scheduled for january 1992. the fact that it has not been achieved is not due to the western saharis. for 40 years now, morocco has occupied western sahara. no country has recognized their right to the land. since 1991, the western saharians have waged their struggle for self-determination through non-violence. but the message we're sending them is that nonviolence doesn't pay and that international law doesn't need to be followed. it is time now for the eu to give priority to non-violence, and for us to stand up for the right of the western sahara to actually achieve their promised independence, for us to stand up for international law. we're not punishing the western saharans, we're rewarding them.
madam president, i would like to thank you. there is dissatisfaction in this parliament that the members are elected from their own member states, from their own parties, that they have their own electoral manifesto and that they represent their own electors. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. this proposal for a european electoral law contains several proposals which go in that direction. the proposal for transnational lists, the proposal for the eu party symbols to appear on both ballot papers and electoral material. what is at stake is the transfer of power from the member states to the eu parties. it's about increasing the distance between the voters and the elected. and that would undermine democracy. i have voted against this proposal and i hope that the council will ensure that these bad proposals are not implemented.
‒ the rules governing the european elections need to be updated and better coordinated between different eu countries. i therefore voted in favour of this report in the final vote. but the text contained some proposals, such as a common eu electoral constituency, which i did not support, as i believe that would make the european elections even more complicated.
in writing. in principle, we social democrats believe that it is natural to have a european electoral law governing the election of the european parliament and that it should be updated when necessary. the proposal presented to the plenary contained several good elements, such as the requirement for gender balanced lists of candidates and better coordination between member states. when drafting an electoral law, it is important not to go too fast and to ensure that electoral systems are interconnected, to ensure that voters identify themselves in the process. unfortunately, the text presented to the plenary contained a number of proposals which were far too detailed and far-reaching, which risked confusing the electorate and did not respect the democratic traditions of the member states. we could not support these proposals in the vote.
mr president, i wish to thank madam hazekamp for her initiative. there have been many bills – much legislation – passed in this house in recent years, but they are not coherent, there is no complete strategy and there is not even a cohesive legislative framework within the european union today. that means also that the animals are suffering; it means that we have different regulations in different countries, and it also means that we do not have, when it comes to agricultural products, a joint and common market. i therefore support the proposition from the gue/ngl group.
blue-card question.– i would like to ask the earl of dartmouth if he is really so naive as to think that all the subsidies of the eu member states would disappear if the european union were suddenly abolished. is it not more likely that the sum of all of these member states would result in higher tariffs, as it is a fact that the two european countries that are not members of the european union – switzerland and norway – actually have higher tariffs on agriculture and higher subsidies for agriculture?
mr president, i would like to thank you. free trade is our most important tool for creating prosperity and eradicating poverty. that's why a global trade agreement is so incredibly important. yet we have spent the last 13 years fighting the doa round and trying to get it done. it does not make it less important that we have been taking a long time to achieve success in nairobi. i would just like to point out three reasons which i think are particularly important at this time, with our success in nairobi. the first is to get the world economy moving. at the moment, the uncertainties in the world economy are significant and the major risks are on the downside. secondly, we need, now more than ever, global rules of the game and global tariffs to deal with the jumble of different rules of origin and different tariffs that all the free trade agreements we have created have exploded in recent years. this is the only option when multilateral negotiations fail, which somehow makes up for it so that trade does not become expensive and cumbersome, which it risks becoming. the third reason is that the credibility of the wto is at stake. the credibility of the wto as an arena for negotiation and for free trade partners, and not just as an arena for dispute settlement. just because it's important doesn't mean we can expect success. i've learned that in my 12 years of following the question. i have, as the commissioner himself points out, not high hopes that we will complete the round. however, i hope for one thing, because there are things that can be done, and that is to succeed in the sectoral negotiations, the plurilateral negotiations that are taking place alongside, for example, the question of a free trade agreement for environmentally friendly products. i think that the eu and the commissioner can make a tremendous difference here, and i really hope that she can come home and present that we are abolishing customs duties on environmentally friendly products, because that is what the environment, europe and trade need. (the speaker agreed to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).
blue-card answer. – if that were true, i might actually agree with you, but the fact is that most acp countries are on the way to concluding economic partnership agreements with the eu. that is a fact. and we can see that, as a consequence of free trade, we have fewer extremely poor people in the world now than ever before. that is due not to communist ideals of the sort that you promote, but to free trade and nothing else.
madam president, i would like to thank you. in august, the eu-vietnam free trade agreement was finalised after three years of intensive negotiations. it's a very important and good deal for vietnam. after all, the eu is vietnam's second largest trading partner after china. this agreement is truly a growth agreement for a country that needs development. i firmly believe that trade is the best way out of poverty. that's how sweden and all the other eu countries got rich. if we can offer other countries the opportunity to make the same journey by opening up our markets, that is of course a good thing. but as always when poverty reduction comes up in the context of free trade, the opponents say it is just the opposite. trade threatens human rights, workers and the environment, and free trade is at the expense of the population. that's not true! let me just say that the vietnamese themselves want this agreement. i think, frankly, it's a little pathetic to try to claim that you know better than they do what's good for vietnam. in addition, this agreement contains strong, binding texts on human rights, the environment and workers' rights. i don't think that's where the shoe pinches. the truth is that protectionists always find an excuse other than being protectionists to try to prevent free trade and open borders. i think this is another example. as we saw in burma, when aung san suu kyi appealed to us to lower their tariffs, they were opposed. when it came to pakistan and malala was here pleading, you were against it. now they're against it in vietnam because they think they know better than the poor what's right for them. these are the imperialists of the new age.
for the alde group. president. - the debate is closed. i should like to begin by saying how pleased i am that this matter has come to this. if some of my colleagues recognize the wording of the committee on agriculture, it is because it is the same question that many of you signed just before the summer and which we have now finally got to debate. i am particularly pleased that the house today is deciding to bring a resolution to this written question and this debate. i would also like to thank commissioner andriukaitis for his commitment to these issues and for the fact that in his opening speech he also opened up some avenues for progress which we will be able to discuss in the future. i would like to agree with the colleagues who have spoken before that we first need to make a proper evaluation of what we had in the previous strategy. i would then like to ask the house to adopt a new strategy for the future. because, as mr nicholson said, it is extremely necessary that we take it as a package, that we have it balanced and that we also get it - which i think is extremely important - in a work that is done together with the farmers of europe and not that it is a work that is against the farmers of europe. it's the core of the thing. i would also like to see that in the strategy, which gives us a wider perspective and a wider range of instruments to work with, we also have a part which is to work towards a common animal welfare legislation within the european union. it is often said in the political debate that we have a common agricultural market in the european union, and we largely do. but there are also very different national regulations. we can see how many different directives have been implemented in very different ways in different countries. if we take what in sweden is popularly called the pig directive, for example, where we had a ten-year implementation process from 2003 to 2013, we can see in a survey by the swedish university of agriculture that there are still only eight out of twenty-eight countries that have fully implemented this. we have also been able to establish in the important animal health act the relationship between the amount of antibiotics we use in our livestock production and how it also affects our health as humans. here we have an opportunity to actually get more of europe, better rules. the thirty or so pieces of legislation that have passed this house are certainly not that unanimous. here we have the chance to make it better and easier and to have a better and more functioning internal market, while at the same time the animals of europe are much better off.
mr president, i would like to thank you. thank you, vice-president šefčovič, for being here to take the debate. i would like to begin by saying that for me it is so extremely clear that this is one of the areas where we really need more of the european union and where we need more of the market. there are some forces that criticize the eu and say that it is only a matter of the market. here we have the clear proof that in the field of energy we have no single market at all. if we are to cope with the climate, if we are to cope with jobs, if we are to cope with industry, if we are to cope with the economy and security, it is of the utmost importance that we have a common energy union which is also very, very market-based. if we look at the example of the eu, the north pole, which concerns the nordic countries and the baltic countries, we can see, for example, if we look at estonia, how a common market has benefited the economy, both for private households and for industry, and how costs have been reduced through more efficient use of energy. it is also based on getting more interconnectivity, which will enable us to ensure that the parts of the union where we have an energy surplus can compensate for the parts of the union where we have an energy deficit. it also means that we will have greater security throughout the european union. i would urge the house not to get too caught up in the details of what we have on this market since. now we're going to create the system, the security, the rules and the market. then we have other instruments, such as the ets, to ensure that we are steering in the direction we want to go. but we will not be able to cope with jobs, the economy or the climate unless we have a common energy union that is strong, clear and market-based.
mr president, i would like to thank you. thank you. i speak swedish, i'm going to. i want to thank the commissioner. this is a very ambitious and important work that you have started in the commission. i think you should be able to do that with even more confidence, because what has happened in the last few years in the energy market is that we have had a revolution. the prices of renewable energy, wind and solar have fallen dramatically and this is changing the whole energy market. in particular, if we implement what the commission wants to have a better interconnected energy system, where the whole of europe can transport energy from different places. this allows us to invest where it is most efficient and also to achieve competitive prices for the future. we must be able to stand up and speak about this as a future guarantee for industry in the future too. that is why i think we should dare to say, more clearly, that we must phase out coal. what i'm worried about is the elephant in the room. you have to have the courage to be clearer in that area, to gain confidence in the other.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is very welcome that we are now taking the step towards achieving an internal energy market while at the same time achieving a sustainable situation from both an environmental and a supply perspective. one of the key areas is energy efficiency for heating and cooling. the heating option that best complements energy efficiency efforts is district heating. larger incinerators have better purification and are more efficient than those you can have at home, so there are already gains to be made, but there are also huge amounts of energy from waste heat from, for example, industrial processes that can be used. this means less emissions, less imports and, moreover, an opportunity for industry to create an energy market that would otherwise have been wasted and thus a better competitive situation. i therefore hope that the commission will see district heating and cooling as an opportunity to strengthen the approach already taken to energy efficiency in buildings.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i am positive that this framework is now finally coming into place. the consumer has long been a weak player in the insurance market. the abuses have been obvious. it has been all too common for consumers to be left with the wrong insurance product at a price that is far too high. the new rules will bring about marked improvements. consumers will be given clearer information, more sound advice and, in general, stronger protection. a particularly important provision is that the consumer should not be forced to buy such insurance as is offered in packages with another good or service. the product or service must be available for purchase without insurance. all of this is a valuable step in the right direction. what is now crucial is that the directive is properly implemented at national level. the change in the rules must be accompanied by a fundamental change in the market culture: the consumer must be put first.
‒ i voted against the second part of paragraph 47 because i believe that all children should have access to health care, education and childcare, but the way this is organised budgetarily in the different eu member states is different. in sweden, for example, this concerns primarily municipal and regional budgets. the member states should continue to be free to design this according to their systems and i therefore vote against all member states allocating a specific budget line to this issue.
‒ the resolution contains a number of deeply problematic points. among other things, i think it is completely wrong for the eu to advocate a statutory minimum wage, that is something for the member states to decide and in sweden wages should be set by the social partners. it is also wrong policy to advocate increased public spending and to suggest that the commission should refrain from recommending privatisations and more flexible working conditions. a number of member states, including sweden, are facing major structural challenges that require both more flexible working conditions and privatisations. i voted against these errors but i voted for this resolution. the reduction of child poverty is a very important issue and this report addresses, among other things, the need for strong protection systems to protect children from violence and the need for preventive work to reduce poverty. these are important issues for me and i have chosen to support them by voting in favour of the report. both the work to reduce child poverty and the work to make the labour market more flexible will continue and i look forward to being a part of that work.
in writing. more than one in four children in the eu is at risk of poverty or social exclusion today. between 2008 and 2012, the number of children at risk of poverty or social exclusion in europe increased by almost one million, of which half a million increased between 2011 and 2012 alone. the consequences are many, for example, the increase in the proportion of children suffering from malnutrition, with the consequence that diseases that had disappeared from the eu (such as rickets) are reappearing. the fight against child poverty needs to be given greater political attention as a matter of urgency, also in order to enable the eu to achieve the europe 2020 target of reducing the number of poor by at least 20 million by 2020. we social democrats therefore welcome this own-initiative report. however, we would like to stress that access to education, health care and social security for children is primarily a matter for the member states and national welfare systems. at the same time, the eu can play a major role in supporting the work of the member states, in particular through the structural funds. the eu can also facilitate crossborder cooperation and develop common guidelines and objectives to combat child poverty. ensuring that the child perspective is included in all relevant policy-making processes, including at eu level, is also a successful way to prevent and combat child poverty.
‒ all children should have access to healthcare, education and childcare, but the way this is organised budgetarily differs from one eu member state to another. in sweden, for example, this concerns primarily municipal and regional budgets. the member states should continue to be free to design this according to their systems and i therefore vote against all member states allocating a specific budget line to this issue.
in writing. - i've lowered my voice. the report has many positive aspects. i appreciate, for example, the writings on working for human rights and gender equality, as well as the writings on poverty reduction. it is also positive that parliament is in favour of the next secretary-general of the united nations being a woman. but the report also has a basic tone in support of the idea of a federal eu state, for example by aiming for a seat for the eu in an enlarged un security council. i am opposed to a common foreign and security policy and a federal state of the european union, and therefore i choose to abstain.
for the efdd group. president. - the debate is closed. i would like to begin by offering a thought to the victims and their families who were subjected to the terrible attack that took place in paris last week. i am deeply concerned by the terrorist attacks we see around us today. i'm even so worried that i try to avoid places with many people. i prefer to stay inside my apartment rather than go out to eat when i am in brussels. i'm worried about where my kids are. in my country, sweden, we are very vulnerable to future attacks. with mass immigration, especially from countries with a large number of isis supporters, we are at greater risk of being subjected to these horrific attacks. especially since we barely know who we're letting into our country. this is because you, the decision-makers in this chamber, have simply been blind to the free movement and the openness of europe. with the migration that is happening in our countries, how can you even think that we will be able to integrate all these people? we cannot even provide them with a roof over their heads, let alone hope for a better life, with access to jobs and housing. this, my friends, leads too many of them to a life of exclusion, hopelessness and despair. it is precisely in situations like these that many of the young men are tempted to become radicalized. the rapporteur is now talking about preventive measures, de-radicalisation, investigations and so on. perhaps the rapporteur should bear in mind that we are in an emergency. what should be done is to prevent as quickly as possible more of this waste from entering european soil. it's no secret that isis has spoken out about sending jihadists across the mediterranean by boat. i don't have time for this. (the speaker accepted to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
the answer ('blue card'). in this case, i think we're talking about terrorism wherever it comes from, because what's happening in our countries is that we're facing a terrible, distressing fear. i also say that many people are coming with the refugee flows. whatever the nature of this terrorist, we must fight it, and we must do it now.
madam president, before i turn to the dati report, allow me to express my sincere condolences to the victims of the attacks in paris on 13 november and to their families. these attacks are attacks on all of us and on our european values. i want you to know that we will do everything we can to fight these murderers together. i'm not going to lie. the date of the attack, which we must remember, is not a programme of measures taken in response to the paris attacks. it is not just a debate on anti-terrorism, but a debate on how we should combat radicalisation in the eu. we must strengthen our efforts in our member states to prevent young people from being locked up in these murderous sectors. it is important to identify risks and take action early, for example in prisons and institutions. prisoners should help people back into society, not drive them into famine on terrorists. we also need to reduce the opportunities for terrorists and other radicals to win their way onto the internet without any ideological backlash. what we must do now, first and foremost, is to wake up in a time when the darkest castle is shadowing the eu. we must remember that after the darkest night there is always the morning, just as the light must return to paris, brussels and elsewhere. we must all be together.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the terrorist attack in paris shows that we must open our eyes. we must break with the naivete that has so often characterized the view of militant islamism. the fact that the terrorist sect is is at war with europe and the free world must now be a guiding factor in the necessary measures. policies, legislation and public debate must be directed towards action and the protection of europe's citizens. the time for the relativisation of militant islamism is over. a change in the climate of conversation and an acknowledgement of the real threats we face are central to putting the necessary measures in place. political processes that are under way but are progressing slowly need to be implemented quickly. the socialists, liberals and greens will hopefully take their share of the responsibility and put an end to the delay in the pnr issue. the provision of airline passenger data to the police is of the utmost importance. it is also the case with the reinforcement of external border controls and the more effective coordination of the work of the security services in europe. i would like to thank my colleague mr dati for an excellent resolution which i hope will be supported by a large majority of this house.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i think we're forgetting a very important factor, or we're not talking about it enough, and that is that there is a human being behind every terrorist, or behind every person who has been radicalized. in most cases, the terrorists we've seen in europe have grown up here with us. they were born and raised in europe, but they have not found a meaning in their lives here in europe. if we have a lot of people around us who don't find a meaning in life, who may even find death more meaningful than life, then we have a big problem. because you're looking for meaning, you're looking for a community with others. it's easy to end up in groups with strong loyalties, strong communities, and who fight for something: the good. in these cases, whether it is right-wing extremist groups or whether it is islamist groups or some others, they think they are doing the right thing. we have a tremendous responsibility to really look at why people are being radicalized. why do people choose to believe in death over life?
mr president, i would like to thank you. first of all, i would say that it is very important that we have a good debate and a good discussion about the european steel and metal industries. they have meant a great deal to us historically and they will mean a great deal to us in the future as well. there are several things i find sad about the report. firstly, as mr tošenovský said at the beginning, we are getting the wrong focus. we will soon be working on a review of the ets and that is where this discussion is more appropriate. i also think it is a pity that we did not wait for the outcome of the paris climate summit before we started discussing these consequences. it would have given us a better analysis and it would have given us a better time to assess the competitive situation and how it will look in our world. i also think it is a pity that in this report we forget to look at how we can get a better picture of energy prices in europe through a better energy union and how we can increase competition by having better education and by having better innovation. so the report could have been much better, but it is good that we are discussing industry.
mr president, i would like to thank you. thank you for being here, commissioner. poor working environments cost lives and quality of life, but they also cost in terms of lower productivity and lower competitiveness. i am therefore very pleased that we have finally got a report in place which states that all workers have the right to the highest possible level of health and safety at work, regardless of whether the employer is a large or a small company. the truth is that a small company has a harder time dealing with a situation where an employee is injured and has to be replaced by someone else who is completely new. it is of the utmost importance that all companies are covered. but also regardless of the type of work performed, the contract on which the employment is based or the member state in which the person is employed. thank you for this! i will do everything i can to make this happen.
mr president, let me first of all express my condolences once again to the victims and their families. the horrors that have taken place in paris, the shock of these barbaric attacks on these young people, have no possible justification. to the victims, to the parisians and to the french people, i would like to say that we are with you. we feel your pain, we share your anger and we have the same determination to fight these cowardly terrorists together. the solidarity expressed by a large part of the european population is proof that the spirit of europe and european values really exist. unfortunately, our common policy has not yet been able to match the solidarity of our citizens. protectionist and selfish nationalism still far too often trumps the idea of european unity. in the coming days and months, we will need to work together more closely. we need a european pnr system. but what good is this system if the intelligence services of the member states are not prepared to exchange information? but together, we can turn on the light that will light up the night. together we can defend our values and our society and together we can defeat hate and then the spirit of the city of light will flourish.
mr president, my heart beats for the french people today. the hour of trial must become the hour of rallying for europe. in the face of terrorism, europe must be stronger, more firm and more united than ever. we must restore citizens' confidence in the effectiveness of external border controls through concrete actions: systematic and compulsory control of all passports, including european passports, because foreign fighters are europeans, registration of all migrants, including their fingerprints, updating of all databases, increasing the exchange of information between services and strengthening our police and judicial cooperation by giving more resources to europol and eurojust. the european pnr directive, including for intra-european flights, must be adopted this year. we also need to tackle the financing of terrorism. mr president, i reject any amalgamation of the two. fundamentalism is not islam, terrorists are not refugees. those fleeing the same terror and fear must find refuge and tolerance in our midst.
mr president, i would like to thank you. what i object to most is your condescending and arrogant attitude towards certain members of parliament. i am absolutely convinced that you have a political opinion, but it is not your business to attach any importance to that political opinion when acting as chairman of the meeting. you will remain completely neutral and your personal political views are completely irrelevant. you're supposed to treat everyone in this chamber equally, and i'm afraid you don't.
‒ the christian democrats are clear that the long-term ambition is to gradually reduce eu spending on agricultural, labour market, regional and industrial policies. as the position of the european parliament in the budgetary negotiations was the opposite, i voted against this earlier. however, i voted in favour of the agreement between parliament and the council because the eu needs a budget to function and because all the member states support the agreement.
‒ the agreement provides for a small increase in the budget due to increased efforts, in particular to deal with the current refugee situation, but also measures to boost growth in the eu. a further factor contributing to the additional need for budgetary resources is that many of the previously planned projects have started and need disbursements. i would have liked to have seen these changes managed by reallocation within the existing budget, but i have nevertheless chosen to vote for the final agreement.
‒ we voted for the eu budget for 2016 because it is obvious that the eu must have a budget. we voted against the demands made by the majority of parliament in the negotiations with the council. what has now been decided was the only option for a functioning eu. we welcome the fact that the agreed budget gives priority to the challenges posed by the refugee issue and to research and development. we regret that this is happening by increasing the budget as a whole and not by making savings commensurate with the priorities. in the long term, we want to reduce agricultural aid, industrial subsidies and those parts of regional policy which make well-functioning economies dependent on regional subsidies. the eu should give priority to the infrastructure of the single market, research and our long-term capacity to develop an effective foreign policy and jointly strengthen control of our borders. it should be done within the framework of the current long-term budget and based on respect for taxpayers' money and the strained budgetary situation of the member states.
‒ we voted for the eu budget for 2016 because it is obvious that the eu must have a budget. we voted against the demands made by the majority of parliament in the negotiations with the council. what has now been decided was the only option for a functioning eu. we welcome the fact that the agreed budget gives priority to the challenges posed by the refugee issue and to research and development. we regret that this is happening by increasing the budget as a whole and not by making savings commensurate with the priorities. in the long term, we want to reduce agricultural aid, industrial subsidies and those parts of regional policy which make well-functioning economies dependent on regional subsidies. the eu should give priority to the infrastructure of the single market, research and our long-term capacity to develop an effective foreign policy and jointly strengthen control of our borders. it should be done within the framework of the current long-term budget and based on respect for taxpayers' money and the strained budgetary situation of the member states.
‒ the proposal addresses issues such as how companies operating in several countries deal with corporate tax and the extent to which member states report on state aid linked to corporate tax. it is important to have transparency on these issues and i have therefore voted in favour of the motion as a whole. i voted against the proposals for a common tax base.
in writing. we swedish social democrats voted yes to the taxe report. we regard this as an offensive and partly visionary text which pushes the debate forward on issues of tax evasion and aggressive tax planning. all the recommendations may or may not be implemented in the near future, but it is useful to establish a clear and concrete agenda now. it is important to emphasise in this context that the tax rates themselves in this area must remain essentially a national matter. it must be left to the member states themselves to determine how high the tax rates need to be in order to ensure sufficient revenue in the public budgets.
in writing. - i have abstained from this report. radicalisation is an important issue but this report is being used to implement more surveillance of people and to empower internet providers to share information with europol and member states. in addition, there was far too much focus on young people being radicalised into islamist organisations without recognising the great dangers of right-wing radicalisation. some good things came through, though, like recognizing that social and economic factors contribute to radicalization and that religion itself is not the problem but misinterpretations of it.
‒ the report addresses a very topical issue, which is important for the safety and security of society, namely preventive measures to counter the radicalisation of young people in particular. however, this should not necessarily be confused with counter-terrorism measures, as these are people who have already been radicalised. i have voted for the report as a whole but have voted against certain parts on counter-terrorism which i think should be dealt with in a different context.
in writing. we swedish social democrats voted in favour of the report on preventing the radicalisation and recruitment of eu citizens by terrorist organisations. we abstained on amendment no 50 because of the ambiguity of the wording. we support border checks at the eu's external borders to detect any suspected terrorists trying to enter the eu. however, these must never lead to the denial of entry at the eu's external borders to persons in need of protection, which would be contrary to eu law and international law. we supported that people who have fought for isis and who return should be checked and prosecuted if crimes have been committed. finally, the report also contained problematic writings on the role of internet companies in removing content 'contributing to the spread of violent extremism', which we did not support. we nevertheless voted in favour of the report in the final vote. the eu and its member states need to do more to prevent violent extremism.
‒ i do not believe that the resolution is the ultimate solution to the question of how we can prevent eu citizens from being radicalised and recruited by terrorist organisations. the resolution contains both positive and negative calls. the positive aspects include the non-association of terrorism with specific religions or nationalities, the need to ensure that data collection and other investigative measures are carried out in accordance with the fundamental values of eu law and international human rights standards, and the need to combat arms smuggling and illicit arms. i voted against the call to complete the eu passenger name record (pnr) directive. it is more important that the individual police authorities of the countries cooperate with each other and that we devote more resources to the ordinary police and security police work. the crucial work of de-radicalisation is carried out on the ground and requires the efforts of municipalities, authorities and civil society.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we have just voted on the strategic framework on health and safety at work. for sweden, for many years, not least through the efforts of the trade unions and through national political decisions, we have taken many important steps to protect workers, both in terms of occupational health and safety at work. the swedish model, which i defend and stand up for, i do not want to see watered down by the eu sticking its fingers in this area too. that is why i am voting against this proposal. the eu is constantly trying to get its fingers in more and more national affairs. unfortunately, it rarely gets better because a one-size-fits-all model is a complete failure. if you are a member of the eu, you should also understand the importance of taking responsibility for your workers and their safety, without the eu coming in with its thumbs up and pretending to understand better than the national governments do.
in writing. ‒ for us moderates, it is self-evident that the eu member states have adequate legislation to guarantee a good working environment for all those who work. each country has both a responsibility and an obligation to introduce adequate occupational safety legislation, covering everything from musculoskeletal disorders to workplace bullying. but there is no added value in more common eu legislation in this area. however, it is good that member states coordinate their policies and exchange experience with each other in order to improve national legislation. we have therefore voted in favour of the report, but against the demands for more eu legislation in this area.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. violence against women is a terror that goes on in silence. it takes lives and it shrinks our living spaces. we live in a culture that actually accepts that men's violence and abuse of women can continue. it's a culture that holds public figures who have committed blatant abuse of girls' and women's bodies in contempt, or even praises them. i am thinking of the former imf base dominique strauss-kahn. i'm thinking of the singer of noir désir, cantat, who murdered his girlfriend. i'm thinking about roman polanski. he was a great actor. the list could be extended with men from all our countries. we are here today because this parliament has called for minimum eu legislation to combat violence against women, and we are not going to let that issue go. in solidarity with the women of europe and the world, i demand that the istanbul convention be ratified now. i demand the right to legal counsel and specialized police and social services. i demand a judicial system that delivers justice to those who are vulnerable. i call on the eu member states to draw up action plans to combat gender-based violence. i also demand that women's shelters women's shelters who work day in and day out with women who are victims of gender-based violence be given proper support and resources. they are a source of knowledge and they are our fellow sisters in this work. i also want girls to have access to feminist self-defense. it's a natural way to build self-esteem and strength in young girls. we have to stand up against the violence that limits our lives to the culture of violence and the culture of silence that we have. a culture that blames women and frees men. we have to break it. silence contributes to invisibility and to the continued abuse of women and girls. the absence of proposals from the commission is a form of invisibility. the silence of the commission and the council on combating this specific violence against women is serious. it is even unacceptable.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i think it is rather pathetic that we are pursuing this discussion in this way after a meeting which is characterized by the fact that the governments of our member states seem to be completely helpless in the face of the crisis that people around the world are in. all energy seems to be spent on protecting selfish interests and no effort is put into trying to solve the challenges we face. when the world is on fire and people seek refuge here in the eu from war, destruction and persecution, the member states' main interest seems to be to ensure that no refugee comes to their own country. at least not someone with the wrong skin color or the wrong religion. you speak of people in a way that brings to mind the darkest epochs in european history. europe must be better than this. we must be able to maintain an orderly and functioning migration policy that respects the right to asylum in each country. the dublin regulation has failed and it is unreasonable to leave the entire responsibility to first arrival countries. it is just as unreasonable to continue in this selfish way. europe can do more, and we should realize that we are the richest continent in the world. if we don't do this, who will?
mr president, i would like to thank you. the swedish green party's basic position is that all people should be allowed to move, but no one should have to flee. but today, the situation is not that, voluntary migration is a very small proportion and much smaller than involuntary migration. instead, you call them irregular. i say involuntary, and i say that because the people we are talking about are not actually leaving their countries because they want to, but because they have to. they're leaving because of climate change, they're leaving because of poverty, because of conflict, because of war and oppression, for many different reasons. they are forced to flee, but at least we should not call them illegal, as was said earlier. you say irregular. i mean, it's involuntary migration that's what this is about. i am glad that the european parliament actually raised the question of root causes as the first of the five points, because it is the root causes that we must deal with if we are ever to be able to deal with this involuntary migration that we are dealing with.
mr president, yesterday was a sad day for everyone who believes in a sweden and europe that take responsibility and welcome refugees. a beacon of hope for many refugees, sweden turned off its lights and decided to more or less close borders and all but stop the so-important right to family reunification. a colleague spoke about it earlier. my party does not share this decision – this is not the way forward. it is not the way forward for sweden and it is certainly not the way forward for europe. nor are the valletta actions the way forward. what is taking shape is a regime for holding back refugees, making african countries a buffer zone, making them responsible not only for holding but even for stopping refugees. the focus on smuggling, on fighting irregular migration, on returns, on cooperation with dictatorships such as those in eritrea and sudan, are proof of this. this is not the way forward. i repeat that we have to find a way forward, and the focus should be on finding legal ways. but also we also have to strengthen our capacity to receive the people seeking protection and to share this responsibility. and so my question is very honest here: why are the council and the commission not putting all – and i mean all – their efforts into this point? where is your priority list heading? it should not be to outsource our borders, it should be to receive refugees in a dignified way and to share that responsibility. (applause)
for the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i was part of the european parliament's election observation mission to myanmar, along with six other parliamentary colleagues. the impressions of this mission are positive. the quality of the voting process and the counting of votes was high. no serious irregularities were reported. voter turnout was estimated at about 80 percent. after the elections, the incumbent government has admitted defeat. opposition leader aung san suu kyi and her nld party won nearly 80 percent of the vote and negotiations are now under way to form a new government. with that said, it is essential to see the election in myanmar in its full political context. despite successful implementation and political progress in recent years, the country cannot yet be considered a democracy. the current constitution contains parts that are deeply problematic, such as the fact that myanmar's military power is guaranteed a quarter of the seats in parliament. aung san suu kyi is barred from holding the important post of president under another part of the constitution. in addition, human rights violations are a serious problem. the number of political prisoners is increasing, as is the discrimination against minorities. among the worst affected are the rohingya and other muslim groups, who have suffered severe abuses and persecution for a long time. the challenges facing the new parliament are therefore considerable. much political leadership and will to reconciliation will be required in myanmar's continued path towards stability and peace, as well as continued support from the european union.
mr president, i would like to thank you. moldova is a small, fertile, beautiful country with very great opportunities, but also with very big problems. i think we also have to acknowledge that we have failed within the eu to tackle the widespread corruption in moldova and that this may cost us very dearly. it is in the eu's interest to ensure that the latest banking scandal is thoroughly investigated and that those responsible are held to account. in a country which has an association agreement with the eu, only 12% of its gross domestic product disappears without a trace. this is completely unacceptable. it undermines apathy, democracy and citizens' confidence in having a functioning society at all. what we can do is to offer even more legal and financial assistance to ensure that those responsible are held to account and to contribute to a functioning banking system for the future.
writer. president. - the debate is closed. it is a disturbing development that we are seeing in afghanistan the sectarian and ethnic violence, the murders, the kidnappings and the attacks. it has escalated and in particular the hazaras, the country's third largest group and mainly shiite, have been affected. we are seeing a development where some taliban groups have joined daesh and as we all know, the shi'a are one of daesh's targets. compared with what is happening in other countries in the middle east, this is a very disturbing development. the war in afghanistan, in which many eu member states were involved, is not over. it continues, but with less media attention when we're no longer on the ground. you were right to leave. democracy and a functioning rule of law cannot be created by military means. we need to be in afghanistan for the long term, with civilian efforts for peace, democracy, security, etc. building a democracy takes time. in addition to aid, we must also show from the political side that afghanistan is not forgotten and that we are watching what is happening. that is the perspective in which this resolution plays a role. the resolution strongly condemns the barbaric murder of 77 hazaras. it condemns the many other attacks by the taliban, al-qaeda and daesh and other groups against all sections of society. it stressed the importance of protecting the vulnerable hazaras and also expressed its condolences for the bereaved. we believe in the resolution that kidnapping should be considered a war crime. there is a great deal more to the resolution, but in a minute and a half there is not much time.
the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the the first words are inaudible. i have not said at any stage that it was not right to withdraw the troops. i told him it was the right thing to do to leave afghanistan. it was right to leave afghanistan and that we need more civilian intervention, aid and other things to ensure democracy and security, etc. i mean, we were right to leave 2014.
writer. president. - the debate is closed. cambodia holds a very special place in my heart and therefore it is very painful to see the hun sen government's growing and escalating aggression against the legitimate political opposition. eleven opposition politicians have been imprisoned after very flawed trials and have been given long, long sentences, accused of leading a rebellion. here we would call it legitimate opposition politics. sam rainsy, the leader of the opposition, is once again in exile. he's being charged with libel. here he would have been labelled a legitimate opposition leader who makes legitimate criticisms. i'm glad he's here with us on the stand today. the judiciary has been thoroughly politicized and opposition politicians have been beaten up. i am glad that we are adopting this resolution today, because freedom of assembly and freedom of expression belong to everyone. in cambodia, the opposition has been systematically deprived of these basic rights. i'm happy and glad we're doing this today. it's important for our credibility.
madam president, i simply wanted to say, with regard to cambodia, that we have with us today in the gallery the opposition leader, sam rainsy. i would like everybody to know that he is here. (loud applause)
in writing. ‒ i voted for the eu to renew its common strategy for animal welfare. i am a person who cares about the welfare of animals and consider it important both for ethical reasons and for the production of good and healthy food. it is also important to have uniform rules implemented in the same way throughout the union in order to avoid distortions of competition between member states.
‒ the resolution follows the oral question i initiated earlier this year and it sends a very clear signal to the commission that parliament expects more and clearer action to achieve better animal welfare in the union. the resolution contains the main points: demands for the speedy implementation of all measures of the current strategy, demands for a new strategy for the years 2016-2020, demands for a legal framework for animal welfare and demands for a definition of the concept of good animal welfare. in order to ensure a broad consensus, i chose to support the resolution and the main proposals and to vote against a number of proposals concerning the detailed content of a future strategy. the aim of the resolution is to call for a new strategy, not to describe in detail the content of a new strategy.
for the verts/ale group. president. - the debate is closed. we have the same basic values in the eu in theory, but in practice we do not always share the same view of what human rights actually mean, especially when it comes to the rights of women and children. it's very important to me that all the officials who first meet the refugees who come to us have a good idea of what human rights actually mean. i mean both frontex officials and those who come and are guest officials. what is very important in this context is that you also have a good training for everyone who works with frontex. but we need not only good training, but we also need to ensure that officials who are not actually doing well are not given a new mission or that countries which send officials who may not meet the human rights requirements are not given a new mission to send people.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i am in favour of human rights, but there is a risk that human rights are being used in a dishonest way. that is what i am worried about when i read this report. i am afraid that this will only lead to more opportunities for illegal migrants to remain in europe through complaints and appeals. a proposal designed to give illegal or economic migrants and bloodthirsty war criminals additional opportunities to sabotage the rule of law and prevent their deportation back to their home countries. everyone who comes to the eu has the right to seek asylum, but with this proposal you go beyond what is necessary. let frontex do their job and don't let them down.
mr president, as you know, more than a month has passed since the disclosure in this house of ms le pen’s voting fraud. i think that many colleagues here – and myself – would like to know the status of the inquiry that you are leading, in particular regarding mr marcel de graaff, who is the co-chair of europe of nations and freedom, and mr nicolas bay, who is the secretary—general of the front national. i would also like to ask you whether you also intend to convene ms le pen for a hearing, as she is co-chair of the group of europe of nations and freedom.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. on 14 july this year, the current luxembourg presidency of the council gave a favourable opinion on the directive on the more equal representation of women on the boards of listed companies, thank you for that. but luxembourg is not alone in this, both the european parliament and the oecd now see the clear need for a directive. more equal representation on company boards is supported by both economic and feminist arguments. the oecd bases its position on the fact that companies benefit statistically from including more women on boardrooms in purely financial terms. aside from the economic, it's also high time that the glass ceilings and patriarchal networks that reproduce male boardrooms are undermined. since companies have had the opportunity to improve without much success, legislation must now be put in place.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i have worked for women's rights all my life and i have always been in male-dominated contexts, even here in the european parliament, i might add. but i do not think that the commission's directive on women on boards is the best way forward for real equality. firstly, because i, as a liberal, believe that companies should be able to decide for themselves how they are to be governed and represented, and secondly because we must respect the right to property, which has been fundamental in every european democratic state. and the right to own is still fundamental. but above all because i think it's starting from the wrong end. if we want to achieve gender equality, we must have equal parental leave, good childcare in all our member states so that women and men can participate in working life on equal terms. today, far too many women give up their careers to become housewives. the eu, mr president, simply cannot afford to have the most highly educated housewives in the world. we must stop doing that and make sure that we work, both women and men.
mr president, it is with great distress that we have witnessed the constantly worsening state of democracy and rule of law in hungary over the past years. the freedom of the media has been curtailed through fidesz-controlled media supervisors who have brought about fear and self-censorship. the court system has been politicised and the freedom of minorities is being trampled on by the government. this week we saw the arrest of a number of opposition politicians in hungary, purely for having shared political criticism of fidesz policies on facebook. it was notable that, although these posts were shared by many individuals, the actions of the now fidesz-run judiciary of hungary targeted its attacks at active members of the political opposition. i am usually a big fan – a supporter even – of the commission, but i would say to the commissioner that on hungary, quite frankly, the commission is nothing but pathetic in your inaction. you have done absolutely nothing with regard to parliament’s resolution adopted in june. you only offer words and hot air and not a single concrete political action. you are supposed to be the guardians of the treaties, not the guardians of oppressive governments. what are you waiting for? does mr orbán have to turn into an exact copy of mr lukashenko before you wake up and smell the coffee? i find it appalling. your inaction leaves a lot to be desired by citizens out there. take action on this and do it now.
in writing. - i abstained in the vote. the fact that frontex has not had an individual complaint mechanism until now is remarkable, especially in view of the recurring reports of human rights violations coming from both amnesty and the un refugee agency. such a mechanism must be independent of frontex and the complainant has the right to remain anonymous and may be represented by a third party, such as iom, amnesty or the un refugee agency. results are highly questionable. an internal mechanism within frontex is not enough. however, we were told that the plaintiff may be represented by a third party. it is a small step in the right direction, but it is not enough to be a system that can be called legally secure.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i have to say, as the president has just said, that for the first time we have a global climate agreement on our hands, and that is something that must empower all of us who have been involved in working to find a solution to these difficult issues over the last ten to twenty years. there's a process for audits and follow-ups, and we have an agreement that says we have a target that is well below two degrees. it's a great success. the question is what this means for the european union. yes, some of the things are that we must speed up the work on creating a common energy market and speed up the work on the energy union. we need to end fossil fuel subsidies faster than we have thought of doing so before. we also need to put a price on coal and ensure that we have a functioning emissions trading system which is not yet working properly, and we need to concentrate even more on energy efficiency to be able to meet the climate targets. these are issues that are raised in the energy union, but also in my report which i have presented here, which deals with the interconnection of the electricity grids in europe. with a common electricity grid and a common market, we can achieve much of what we are striving for. we can get cheaper electricity, cheaper electricity production, cheaper electricity to consumers and to businesses in europe, and we can also get more renewable energy and more investment with a common electricity market that works, and get more investment in renewable electricity where it is most efficient. in places like the north sea, we can get more wind power produced. in spain, we can get more solar energy produced. with a larger, more coherent electricity grid and a common market, we can make this work together. the different renewable energy laws also link and balance each other better. we can therefore also more easily achieve the climate objectives we have now set ourselves. but we can also get a better competitiveness by cheaper electricity for european industry, and that is especially important in the present situation when we still have very high unemployment in many countries. if we can remove the energy islands that we still have in europe, for example in poland, in the united kingdom, in spain and on the iberian peninsula, then that will also contribute greatly to strengthening competitiveness and european industry. i don't think one goal is enough for the future. we need to complement this with regional targets to remove bottlenecks in the electricity networks and we also need to strengthen the regulatory authority acer with a better budget, more staff and with better possibilities to exercise its supervision and control. finally, we also need to make greater efforts to introduce the best available technology (bat) when investing in new electricity grids. this is because we are reducing conflicts with the local population and are making investments more rapidly.
i think that we are in agreement. i want us to use the 10% target and that is important, but i also think that there are other, regional, complementary targets which are also important if we are to have a functioning common electricity market, such as within some countries, which is needed to strengthen the electricity grid, but also between some countries which already have other problems. so to remove the bottlenecks and achieve a common electricity market, we also need complementary targets, not just the 10% target.
blue-card question.– i would like to emphasise one thing that is important in this debate. the criticism often comes from countries like poland and the united kingdom. however, when we look at electricity prices in europe, the countries that have the highest prices are britain and poland – and also spain sometimes. this is because they are energy islands. the countries that have good connections with the other countries around have low prices and better competition for their industry.
blue-card question.– i agree with almost everything you say, but it is also important to have evidence-based checks on what you are doing, because we are dealing with taxpayers’ money. we should only use taxpayers’ money in as effective a way as possible. it is perhaps not the most efficient thing to lay a new cable from cyprus to greece to solve this problem. maybe it is better to invest in electricity and renewables in cyprus itself, for example.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would also like to thank my shadow rapporteurs and those who have worked on the energy union and also thank you for the discussion with commissioner cañete, because it has been a very interesting and important debate that we have had here today, and i want everyone to know that we have big tasks ahead of us. we are talking about very serious, major climate change that is coming and that will change our planet. we still have a huge dependence on fossil fuels. we import the majority of our energy into the european union. we have very high prices and low competitiveness in several countries because of too high energy prices. many also have regulated prices and therefore no functioning market, but there are two things that make me more optimistic about the future than in the past. on the one hand, the dramatic fall in renewable energy prices in recent years gives us a much greater opportunity to make meaningful large-scale investments in renewable energy and to bring more renewable energy into the energy mix. the second thing is what happened this weekend, when we got a climate agreement that actually makes all the countries on the planet stand behind a work to reach the less than two degrees target. we have great opportunities, also by investing in a common electricity market in europe, to regain more competitiveness, to bring in more renewable energy and, moreover, to bring cheaper energy to consumers.
rapporteur.– mr president, i have had the privilege of being your rapporteur on the trademarks package since the spring of 2012. i would like to take this opportunity to thank all colleagues and their staff, both in parliament and the commission. i would also like to warmly thank the many presidencies that have worked on this dossier, and perhaps most importantly the italian and the latvian presidencies, which provided excellent work in the most critical stages of the negotiations. i would like to draw your attention to the achievements on this file. the reforms agreed in trialogues will ensure that companies in europe have faster and cheaper access to trademarks, both at national and european levels, without compromising on the quality of the decisions. administrative procedures have been streamlined according to best practices, and we will see an increased harmonisation of the national systems along the lines of best practices. on substantive trademark law, we have modernised a number of provisions in view of technological developments. we have also managed to include important safeguards to protect freedom of expression by limiting the possibility of rightholders to bring legal actions against people using trademarks for reasons, for example, of parody or artistic expression. for this, i would like to thank an old colleague from sweden who was with us but who is not any more. he drew our attention to this. some of you might have received letters during the week from ngos expressing concerns on the issue of transit of generic medicines to developing countries. i would very much like to underline the position and the fact: i can assure everyone that there will in no case be any problems for the transit of generic medicines to developing countries as a result of this legislation. throughout my life i have fought for development, and i would never, ever allow a law bearing my name to hinder people in developing countries from getting access to medicines. that is for sure. the ambition has been shared by the entire parliament negotiating team. we have been united in this, and together we managed to include very strong safeguards. it should also be noted that the problems that have occurred in past times with regard to the transit of medicines have exclusively related to patents, and not trademarks. i am proud today of the balance that we have achieved between fighting organised crime and the dangerous trafficking of counterfeit products, and protecting the interests of legitimate trade. i would like to stress that there is no risk of confusion between generic medicines and counterfeit, fake medicines. any holder of a european trademark trying to incorrectly stop goods in transit which are not breaching the rights is also liable for damages in accordance with the eu customs regulations. these rules will give our customs officers the right to seize counterfeit fake products transiting through europe. now, in europe, we will be able to help developing countries in an important struggle against organised crime, which preys on the most vulnerable of us. this is something that we are all united in. i will come back later, but i look forward to the debate on this item.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to begin by thanking rapporteur wikström and the other shadow rapporteurs. this was the first case in which i participated in a tripartite negotiation and i hope i have learned a great deal from this very fascinating work. there is a lot of good in this report. the system gets simpler, it gets more flexible, it partially solves the problem that khim managed to raise a huge amount of money by distributing a huge amount of brands, so there's a lot of good that's being achieved. as regards the question of freedom of expression and the question of generic medicines, we greens were the most important issues in this report, and as regards generic medicines, i am unfortunately not as confident as the other speakers that we have gone all the way. it was an issue that we had to spend a lot of time fighting against the council, and there is now a concern in civil society. we have just received a letter from the accessibility campaign of doctors without borders and 49 other organisations expressing concern that the right to generic medicines is not sufficiently guaranteed in this proposal. there is a concern, a risk, that generic medicines will be mistakenly stopped in eu ports. we have tried to minimise that risk, but we in the green group would like to say that we have not gone far enough on this front. we fought for more, and i'd like to say we did our best. the greens will vote no, because this question of generic medicines is the most important for us in this case.
rapporteur.– mr president, let me finally mention a few issues related to the governance and finance issues. parliament has managed a number of important victories here as well; transparency has been increased in all areas of the agency, and parliament will have a full seat on the board of the agency. the agency, previously known as the office for the harmonisation of the internal market, or ohim, will change its name to the european intellectual property office (eu ipo). we have succeeded in lowering the fees as much as possible without interfering with the national systems, and will increase the funding dedicated to cooperation projects between the eu agency and national agencies, which will lead to soft harmonisation as well as capacity-building in the national offices. all in all, this is a very large and complex dossier that will now come to an end and, as i have said many times throughout these years: this is not a revolution, it is a modernisation which was needed on the existing eu trade mark system. i am convinced that this dossier will lead to the aim that we all share; namely to foster growth and prosperity for europe, so badly needed these days. i trust that colleagues will support the agreement that we have reached and i thank you all again for your support and for very fruitful, and sometimes quite lively, work and discussions on this dossier. i wish you all the best.
in writing. - i voted yes to the report. i would like to emphasize that i am opposed to giving the eu taxation rights. but in this case it is a question of reforming an already existing system of payments by the member states for their vat and gni-based contributions to the union budget. in 2014, the current system's ambiguities caused serious problems, as several member states paid incorrect amounts, either too much or too little. the reforms are intended to simplify and clarify the calculation and payment methods so that similar problems can be avoided in the future. that is why i voted yes.
‒ the committee responsible has, at the request of the greek authorities, dealt with the question of the waiver of immunity in accordance with rules 6 and 7 of the rules of procedure of the european parliament and subsequently submitted a request for the waiver of the member's immunity; following the judgment of the highest court of the member state and the committee's consideration of the matter, i consider it appropriate to vote in accordance with the committee's request for the waiver of immunity. i regularly vote in accordance with the committee responsible for immunity procedures, when it is reasonable and in accordance with the rules of procedure to refer cases to the national judiciary unless there are political reasons.
‒ the committee responsible has, at the request of the greek authorities, dealt with the question of the waiver of immunity in accordance with rules 6 and 7 of the rules of procedure of the european parliament and subsequently submitted a request for the waiver of the member's immunity; following the judgment of the highest court of the member state and the committee's consideration of the matter, i consider it appropriate to vote in accordance with the committee's request for the waiver of immunity. i regularly vote in accordance with the committee responsible for immunity procedures, when it is reasonable and in accordance with the rules of procedure to refer cases to the national judiciary unless there are political reasons.
‒ today we voted on financial aid from the so-called globalisation fund to people who have become unemployed after european companies have closed down. i am consistently voting no to these unemployment benefits for two reasons: first, labour market policies and financial support for the unemployed should be decided on, and financed, at national level not at eu level. secondly, the fund's basic idea is that globalisation is something negative - which is not true. globalization and free trade lead to growth and peace.
in writing. ‒ we believe that prosperity is created through free trade and fair competition. we therefore oppose the european globalisation adjustment fund on principle, which we regard as an expression of protectionism. we have accepted in the past that the fund was used as a purely emergency measure in a time of deep economic crisis, as a way of countering people's sense of hopelessness and the exclusion that follows in the wake of the crisis and that risks further reinforcing the wave of nationalism and xenophobia spreading in europe. however, in the light of the swedish national audit office's analysis, which suggests that the fund does indeed have a negative impact on returning to work, we believe that the fund has lost its legitimacy and should not be used any more.
‒ i have voted against the report. firstly, this is an enlargement of the eu, and in some environmental cases that may be fine, but the eu's energy union aims to push electricity prices, create an internal market and transfer expertise from the member states to the eu. in addition, it is in favour of shale gas extraction and continued subsidies for nuclear power. i will never support initiatives that look only at the market without raising the need for energy efficiency and renewable energy.
‒ this report is an important position taken by the european parliament, which calls for energy diversification, completion of the internal energy market, improved energy efficiency and energy savings, increased use of renewable energy sources, more active use of european energy resources, better interconnections between member states and the renovation of infrastructure networks and buildings. access to safe and environmentally friendly energy is one of the key issues for europe's future. we need an energy system that promotes renewable energy and makes the eu less dependent on imports from uncertain partners.
‒ today the european parliament voted on the eu's microcredit facility for micro-enterprises. the vote was on parliament's observations on the commission's report on the implementation of the micro-credit system. these loans are intended to serve as a means of helping the long-term unemployed, young people, refugees and other groups to enter the labour market by offering micro-credit when they start a business. it is basically a good idea, but it is not something that should be dealt with at european level. member states should be responsible for their own labour market and social policy. since both the commission's report and parliament's record of it were characterized by a contrary assessment, i chose to vote against.
‒ this report dealt with the financing of start-ups under the european progress microfinance facility. the instrument is not working optimally today and the changes highlighted in the report, including those aimed at making it easier for people far from the labour market to access these credits, are good.
in writing. ‒ we moderates are sceptical about the eu having a microcredit facility. but it is important that the european parliament makes reasonable and balanced comments on how the decision is implemented once it has been taken. that is why we voted in favour of the report.
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, i would like to thank the commission today for its – quite modest – proposals on strengthening the european capacity to control our common borders. i am convinced that the proposals do not go far enough and still need to be significantly strengthened. knowing that there are member states in the council that still consider that these proposals go too far is to me quite depressing, to tell the truth. i sometimes wonder if governments of member states are living in a parallel universe. how else could they complain constantly about the lack of control of our common borders and then oppose measures to secure exactly this once they have been presented? this to me is utterly absurd. through schengen we have agreed to have one external border of the eu and no internal borders, which means that greece’s borders with turkey are as much swedish borders as are sweden’s borders with norway. how member states can argue that member states should police their own borders is simply absurd. imagine the united states with fifty sets of coastguards and border guards, where the us coast guard does not have the right to have its own equipment, but has to ask if it may kindly borrow that of the state for a while. this is an absurdity, and yet in europe it is upheld by governments of member states as the only logical solution. anyone who suggests that maybe a common border needs common border protection is portrayed as some kind of crazy federalist. europe needs today a single border control agency and this should become an exclusive competence of the eu. i wish that member states would stop worrying so much about their own bureaucracies and start, for once, to think about citizens and security.
for the gue/ngl group. president. - the debate is closed. when i read this document, which i have learned about on the internet, i felt that the extreme right was on our backs. but instead of taking them on, you turned around and embraced them. you chose to close the borders because that's what the consequences are. a frontex superpower with extraordinary powers at all levels: patrolling, deporting, giving orders to member states, acting in third countries to stop people fleeing. not a word about the people who are fleeing, or how this border control is linked to our international commitments to provide protection for people fleeing, or how europe should take its responsibility. ladies and gentlemen, the eu does not depend on schengen or whether we show id cards or not. the legitimacy of the eu depends on whether we can take responsibility for receiving people who are fleeing, and therefore the legitimacy of the eu now hangs on a very thin line. when things get tough, when some countries fall apart, what do you do? then you fall back on the only common denominator; apparently, we should close the borders. we have no legal routes, we have no shared responsibility, border controls are confused with terrorism and refugees are defined as risks. we should have common border controls if we can agree at the same time on how to take in refugees together. because otherwise there is nothing to be together or to defend with external borders. then it was fake solidarity, then it was fake tears, because when the flight was at its peak, the eu closed its borders. this is unacceptable. they're going their way.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i think i have to say that the eu is going overboard here and sailing in the wrong direction. this will lead to even greater supranationality, whereby the member states are now deprived of their sovereignty to decide and determine their own border protection on a voluntary basis and to contribute to the protection of the external borders. this is explained by the recent exceptional situation of illegal migrants, weapons and terrorists crossing the mediterranean. this should have been understood long, long ago. we sweden democrats want to see intergovernmental cooperation in the protection of our external borders, where frontex's main task is to guard our external borders and the member states are to participate on a voluntary basis, and nothing else. if the commission, with the support of france and germany, tries to do this, i believe that brexit will soon be followed by svexit.
we obviously need to know who comes to europe and to control our common borders better. i therefore welcome the commission package to upgrade frontex’s role in managing external borders and enforcing solidarity. a frontex plus should support member states registering migrants, take fingerprints, assist in relocation return, check biometric passports, update databases and share information. but both the control and coastguards should remain a national competence. therefore, commissioner avramopoulos, we would welcome more clarification on your proposal. what about command and control – division of tasks between national border guards and european teams? who would trigger the intervention of the joint european teams? eu action should always aim at member states taking their responsibility in applying eu law, not at replacing member states’ responsibility to build up the national capability, and not doing the gap-filling of inadequate implementation of eu law. to conclude, controlling our border better is not closing our border: it is a must to make sure that freedom of movement within schengen will be ensured. it is a must to make sure that refugees are welcome in an ordered manner and for our security. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the so here you are again, the representatives from sweden who have completely forgotten your elector's mandate to represent sweden. you are not here to represent europe, but your country. i must say that i am glad that mrs wikström's party has now changed its name from the people's party to the liberals, for the people, which you definitely do not represent. you stopped listening to them a long time ago. my question to you, mrs bildt: do you think we need to go deeper into cooperation where the eu is increasingly deciding our policy on our border protection? do you not think that this is something that sweden should decide first and foremost as regards our country?
the answer ('blue card'). i regret that my colleague from the sweden democrats does not listen to what i said, that the police and border control are self-determined. but we need better and deeper cooperation to solve the common problems we have in dealing with the flow of refugees, in creating security for our citizens and in fighting terrorism and in ensuring that the free movement of schengen remains. unfortunately, my colleagues only want to close the border and raise the walls. sweden will never be able to cope with the flow of refugees and fight terrorism alone, and needs free movement.
madam president, i was addressed in the most aggressive way by this colleague and i simply do not accept the way that he is behaving in this house. he could have taken a blue card from me but he did not dare to. he is a coward, literally speaking.
madam president, i would like to thank you. they say duty is only pleasant when it's done, and that may be especially true when it comes to our responsibility to our planet. 195 countries have now concluded an agreement but we have not yet done our duty. the obligation is made when we have achieved the targets we have set for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. the duty is not that we now say we will have a contract, but the duty is that we deliver what the contract is said to contain. to reach an agreement in paris was not only a duty, but we must honor what is the content. it's our duty to do so. for us in the centre party and for us in alde it has been very important to have a forward-looking and progressive agreement in place. we've done that now. now it is up to us in this house, in national parliaments and among our colleagues around the world to take our responsibility, do our duty and honour the signal of the deal by reshaping our energy systems, investing in innovation and ensuring that we can keep well below the 1.5 degree target.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i am generally in favour of the report on which we are going to vote tomorrow. the fight against aggressive tax planning needs to be strengthened. it is therefore entirely right that we in parliament are now pushing this agenda forward. it's not just about securing resources for things like schools, health care, infrastructure. it is also about ensuring fair and healthy competition between large and small companies. i would like to highlight three key priorities: first, the beps guidelines, developed by the oecd and the g20, should be implemented in an ambitious and thorough manner within the eu. secondly, eu country-by-country reporting requirements for large enterprises should be extended to cover all sectors. thirdly, a common consolidated corporate tax base should be created within the eu. it should be made compulsory and designed in such a way that smaller countries are not disadvantaged. i hope that the european commission will now take up these signals and intensify its work at the beginning of next year. of course, i would also like to thank the rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs for a job well done.
mr president, mr woolfe quoted winston churchill – what churchill would have said if he was here. and i can very much agree with what winston churchill would have said if he was here. but the difference between you and winston churchill, mr woolfe, is that he wanted to be here. he laid the ground for a lot of this cooperation: he actually gave his name to one of our buildings here. there is a huge difference between you, mr woolfe, and winston churchill – so better let others quote winston churchill in this plenary, rather than yourself, because you do not want even to be here. thanks are due to the rapporteurs who did extremely good work on a complicated subject. it is important to underline that tax is, and will remain, a national competence. it will be different in different countries and there is, i would add, sound and fair competition in relation to tax. but what we need to do is to fight unfair tax competition; we need to fight illegal tax avoidance; and we need to fight the use by member states and governments of tax agreements as a hidden state aid, for that undermines prosperity and competition. we need to ensure that europe can be the centre for global leaders, addressing the problems and the complexities they have in striving to be the best companies in the world.
the committee on women's rights and gender equality has tabled an opinion. president. - the debate is closed. as rapporteur for the opinion of the femm committee, i would like to begin by thanking mr enrique for his work and for his acceptance of the views of the femm committee. we have before us a well-executed report which hopefully can bring about a new impetus in humanitarian work, because humanitarian work needs a new impetus and a change. i am therefore very pleased with the concrete and clear way in which mr enrique guerrero describes the need for srhr and adequate health care in conflict. for too long, women and girls who have been victims of sexual violence in armed conflict have been denied access to adequate healthcare. for too long, the eu's humanitarian work has ignored the geneva convention's letter on the right to adequate health care in the context of sexual violence in conflict. women and girls who are victims of sexual violence in conflict should not be punished twice by being denied necessary medical care. there must be a starting point. i therefore call on parliament to vote tomorrow in favour of the report, including the right of women to health care after horrific abuse, which must be upheld.
i am not going to go into that. i would like to thank you for being here, but at the same time i would like to say that i am very disappointed, as are many others in my own group but also in other groups in this parliament. this term has been very much marked by the hope that we will finally be able to bring order to the labour market, that we will be able to establish equal pay for equal work, that we will seriously put an end to social dumping which not only damages productivity and the feelings and moods of the workplace, but also damages the feelings and moods and the content of the democracies of the european union. if you create a competitive society where you discriminate against people who do the same job, then you don't make very good societies out of that process. we still have high hopes that commissioner thyssen and the commission will come back with a good proposal, because you have promised us that. we have now lived for eight years with the lavaldom which became a kind of starting point for social dumping, both in reality and on our political agenda, so we continue to hope and to press on.
in writing. ‒ we believe that prosperity is created through free trade and fair competition. we therefore oppose the european globalisation adjustment fund on principle, which we regard as an expression of protectionism. we have accepted in the past that the fund was used as a purely emergency measure in a time of deep economic crisis, as a way of countering people's sense of hopelessness and the exclusion that follows in the wake of the crisis and that risks further reinforcing the wave of nationalism and xenophobia spreading in europe. however, in the light of the swedish national audit office's analysis, which suggests that the fund does indeed have a negative impact on returning to work, we believe that the fund has lost its legitimacy and should not be used any more.
in writing. - i've turned my voice down. the report contains many positive proposals, such as mandatory public country-specific reporting of profits and taxes, legal protection for whistleblowers and increased coordination and exchange of information between member states to counter tax evasion and aggressive tax planning by large companies. but the proposal also contains proposals aimed at giving the eu power over tax policy and, in the long term, taxation law. i am opposed to this, because it is an important element in the strategy of a federal european union. that's why i'm gonna lower my voice.
in writing. we swedish social democrats voted in favour of the report as a whole. we welcome the fact that parliament is pursuing an offensive and partly visionary line in its efforts to combat tax evasion and aggressive tax planning. this is an area where further action is needed and where an active development process is important to identify measures that work. all the recommendations in the report may or may not be implemented in the near future, but it is useful to establish a kind of agenda in this way. at the same time, it is important to stress that the determination of tax rates must remain a national matter in all its essentials. it must be left to the member states themselves to determine the levels of taxation needed to ensure adequate revenue in public budgets.
in writing. - i've turned my voice down. i believe that the report on relations with china raises important issues, not least with regard to human rights violations in china. but the report is marked by a liberal market approach, with the celebration of free trade and the opposition to the public sector predominating. in a world where the greatest threat is the growing climate crisis, trade and economic issues must be more problematized than in this report. that's why i'm gonna lower my voice.
‒ i voted in favour of the report. the report welcomes the decision of the un secretary-general to convene the first world summit on humanitarian issues. there is a lot of good writing, including on gender equality and violence against women, and guarantees for women and girls to have access to sexual and reproductive health, including safe abortion, in the context of humanitarian crises. although i voted in favour of the report as a whole, i do not support the proposals to expand the opportunities for business and the private sector in development cooperation and to make it a key player in achieving the new development goals. that's not the way forward.
in writing. - i've put my vote down. the base metal industry is very important for europe and especially important for sweden. many industrial jobs have disappeared or moved outside the eu since 2008, and the sector is subject to fierce competition. it is important to preserve industrial work in sweden and europe. the report criticises in particular taxes and laws which are designed to protect workers and the environment, which is not the right way to go. we want to see an environmentally and socially sustainable base metal industry. although the report stresses the importance of energy efficiency and recycling, it does not go far enough in terms of the environment. that's why i chose to abstain.
‒ this report is less about the challenges of the base metals sector and more about the eu emissions trading system (eu ets). as the european parliament has just started work on the eu ets bill that the commission presented in july, it is very unfortunate that we are already locking positions without proper discussion, where they do not belong. we have therefore consistently voted against all the texts which go into detail about the eu ets and the co2 adjustment at the borders, whatever our opinion on the content itself, and voted against the report as a whole.
in writing. we have voted against a number of proposals which we consider to pre-empt the process already under way of considering the reform of the eu emissions trading system (ets). we share the rapporteur's concern about the development of the european base metals industry, and several of these proposals are constructive, progressive proposals which we would normally have supported. however, it is problematic that this report takes a far-reaching position on the ets, which risks prejudging the important reform of the ets, which is a system that affects many more sectors than the base metals industry and covers over 13000 installations of different nature and with different needs. we have therefore taken a restrictive line in the vote on this own-initiative report on the ets, but have chosen to support the report as a whole, since it concerns an entire industry which is currently in a very difficult situation.
‒ today parliament voted on the situation in hungary. my group, the epp, tabled its own motion for a resolution, which i certainly do not object to in substance, but which does not go far enough. the s&d, alde, gue and greens, for their part, tabled a much stronger motion for a resolution. their motion for a resolution is more characterized by an awareness of the serious developments in hungary. however, i do not agree that the so-called article 7 procedure, as proposed in this resolution, is the right way to go at this stage. instead, the commission's scrutiny of hungary should be broadened and deepened - a view which i also underlined by supporting paragraph h of the resolution. in the final votes, after a unanimous assessment, i decided to abstain both in the vote on the epp resolution and the joint resolution of the aforementioned groups.
mr president, i would like to thank you. some 200,000 migrants are expected to arrive in sweden this year. the welfare state and a government paralysed by naivety are no longer able to cope with the situation. camping is the latest invention. camping out! in our nordic climate, where minus degrees and snow are a common ingredient, we offer camping. a mass immigration of biblical proportions with no control whatsoever over who we let in and where the vast majority are economic migrants who have paid very large sums to get into europe. those who are most in need and need of help, we leave them there for the benefit of those who have been able to pay to come here. is it democracy to leave the weakest behind? those who really need our help in the areas close to the hotspots of the conflict. moreover, should not human rights also include the right to feel safe and secure in one's own country? unfortunately, without checks and border controls, this can no longer be guaranteed, as we have seen with the recent terrorist attacks.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, the debate today is a very good opportunity to start putting facts back in a debate that is getting more and more surrealistic by the day. the most flagrant example is the proposal made by the president of the european council, mr tusk, who put forward the idea that all asylum seekers should be detained for 18 months to screen if they are potential terrorists. the most bizarre thing is that he does not seem to even realise that this would be completely against existing eu legislation. let me say it again: the president of the european council is proposing that all persons seeking refuge in europe, fleeing war and persecution, from the smallest baby to the oldest man or woman, should be put in prison-like camps for a year and a half. mr president, this equals the darkest periods in european history that we do not want wish to see again. i think that it is shocking to the point that i personally think that mr tusk should be asked to publicly apologise for this. in the media today we hear talk about refugees illegally entering the union. this is a narrative that is not only dangerous, it is incorrect. it is not in any way illegal to enter a country in order to ask for asylum. this is a recognised human right in all of the eu’s member states. now, if we were to work together we would be able to offer shelter to those in need, but instead of that, rampant nationalism has taken over the public debate. this crisis has not been caused by refugees or the european institutions; it has been caused by nationalist governments and populists that are actively preventing a european solution to the situation. it is high time that we realised that the best way to solve the situation is to do it together. (applause) (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– my proposal is very simple and it goes for a large majority of the libe committee, of which i am coordinator. it is a common responsibility sharing, a distribution key to member states that is based on quantitative data such as population, gdp, employment rate, etc. it should also be taken into account which countries did the most for refugees up until now – like sweden, germany, austria and others. it is high time that the countries that did not participate stood up and took full responsibility because today there is a situation we have to handle. tomorrow it will be a different situation and we will all be stronger together.
mr president, i would like to thank you. together with a gue/ngl delegation, we went to the balkans and met with refugees. we met with organizations, and we also met with border guards. clearly, refugees have gone through more than any human should have to go through. they have the right to seek asylum and they have the right to a dignified reception here in europe. they're not illegal, and they shouldn't be locked up, and they shouldn't be subjected to violence. yet we have documented the brutality and confinement of refugees in turkey. we have an amnesty report on that. we also have reports from hungary that they lock up asylum seekers so that the asylum seekers themselves think that they have been in prison if they come from there. what refugees and medical staff tell us about police brutality and robbery in bulgaria is a reality. my question to the commission and the council is: what are you going to do to stop this? is it ok for the police of a member state to rob and use violence against refugees? how will you demand that turkey stop its violence against refugees, or will you continue to turn your back on them? are you going to ask the commission to ask member states to stop dublin transfers to hungary and bulgaria where refugees have been subjected to violence? i want concrete answers, because if you do nothing, then we who should be providing protection, instead of providing protection, are allowing the continuation of the violence and the trauma that no one should have to experience.
mr president, i would like to thank you. of course, detention and coercion should be avoided as far as possible. however, we should be aware that a large proportion of those who come to europe seeking asylum do not have valid reasons for seeking asylum. the only chance these people have of staying in europe is if they manage to cheat their way in, for example by refusing to leave fingerprints or otherwise sabotaging the asylum process. then there are those who have been denied asylum but still refuse to respect that and instead choose to become illegal immigrants. we must be able to take these people away from them and also use force to send them back. in both of these cases, we need to be able to use an appropriate level of coercion to get these people to respect our asylum process and the decisions that are made. the truth is that a large proportion of migrants cheat and exploit our systems. we need the tools to deal with these cheaters. the use of force in some cases must be part of that toolbox, or we will be inundated by these cheaters.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by making a statement. no human is illegal. the debate on refugee policy taking place in the eu is not conducive to our view of other people. the statements that we must strengthen the borders and that the eu must put a ceiling on the number of people fleeing, and that we are talking about people fleeing in volumes, easily make them lose their human dignity in the eyes of the public. we have a responsibility to lead, not to sit in the affectionate seat. it affects the way refugees are treated, especially in border areas. we know that there are cases where people who are fleeing are treated like criminals and cattle at border crossings. it's a disgrace to the eu and it's also illegal. every country is obliged to respect the human rights of all individuals on its territory, and it is illegal to deprive people of their liberty without cause. it is illegal to use violence against people who want to exercise their right to seek asylum. it's illegal not to treat people like people. the eu has a great responsibility in this matter. we have a common asylum policy and the commission must ensure that countries comply with this legislation. there is a need for effective and independent monitoring of national and eu border control authorities, which should be proactive and deal with complaints. eu authorities must prioritise respect for human rights in the workplace and disseminate good practice in this area. if we fail to treat refugees as human beings, sooner or later, our own human dignity is at stake.
mr. president, this whole discussion about the future of bosnia and herzegovina is very strange. we hear here that the dayton accords are broken, that they paralyze the country, and so on. all of that is true, but let me remind you how we got into this situation. first we force bosnia to accept the dayton agreement, and then we complain that bosnia is not working because of that agreement. well, that's great. the problem is not that bosnians do not want to implement the reforms necessary for joining the eu. the problem is that there is a strong resistance in bosnia from nationalists who do not want to see the country in the european community, and we, the european union, have not done enough to help bosnia to deal with these nationalists. reforms are, of course, necessary. these funds that the commission has approved are very important funds, but if the european union does not help to implement these reforms, we will soon be complaining again that the reforms have not been implemented and that bosnia's european future is even further away than it is today.
the rapporteur. president. - the debate is closed. i would like to begin by thanking all the shadow rapporteurs who have been very helpful in the preparation of this report. it has been several years since parliament presented its last arms export report, and my ambition is now to resume the annual review. not least because we live in a completely new security policy environment with major changes in the world around us. we have both wars and conflicts in our neighborhood and related armed violence at home. in this context, parliament has an increasingly important role to play in its review of the compliance of member states with the common framework for arms exports. the report is therefore based on three pillars: the changed security situation, the application of the common regulatory framework and openness and transparency. the other day, less than a month after the terrible attacks in paris, amnesty international released a report, this report. the report details how daesh has been getting its weapons. the weapons involved were exported to iraq during the war against iran and later to the iraqi army, and then became too easy a prey for daesh when they captured large parts of all the weapons of the iraqi defence. the report mentions a number of european arms exports from, for example, germany, belgium, the czech republic and croatia. my home country sweden is not mentioned, but given that swedish war material has also been exported to iraq, both via licensed products and indirectly via the united states, i consider it highly likely that they have appeared or may appear in daesh's ruthless war against all dissenters. the question we must ask ourselves is why daesh has so many european weapons and whether the member states have not lived up to the common position? we are now in a situation where our own weapons, once legally sold, are completely out of our control, and we do not know who has them, what they are to be used for, or whether they risk being turned against us. for many years during peace, virtually all arms-exporting countries sold military equipment to the dictators of the middle east and north africa without any major concern about the lack of respect for human rights or the situation in the country as such. the dictators were seen as stable, and they became an important market for european war materials. the area is now on fire, with many individual member states holding long contracts and promises of successive deliveries for many years to come. we can therefore conclude that the risk assessments have not worked, nor the end-user controls, but also that the member states have stretched the regulatory framework to the limit in order to sell. today raif badawi has been awarded the sakharov prize, and in this house we have heard about the terrible punishments inflicted on badawi and many other saudis for the mere expression of their opinions, but despite the total lack of respect for human rights, saudi arabia is still the country that gets to buy the most european war material, although it is clearly not only using it for its own defence but also now in a war of aggression in neighbouring yemen, where civilians are suffering badly. our role as members of parliament is to check that the member states are complying with the common position. a weapon is not just any item. weapons that were exported 10, 20, 30 years ago are as dangerous today as they were when they were sold. our role is also to suggest improvements. today we propose, among other things, a stricter risk assessment focusing on the situation in the recipient country, better follow-up with end-user inspections and, not least, greater transparency and democratic scrutiny of arms exports.
the rapporteur. president. - the debate is closed. yes, it is obvious that we have different views on this issue, and that was also the case when we started work on the report, but i felt that together with the shadow rapporteurs we were able to find a common line, and there was also very strong support in the committee when we voted on the report. since then, something has obviously happened, and what i find most surprising in this debate is that some of those who have been up and speaking on behalf of their parties have not really spoken about what we are really talking about. we are talking about the control of legal arms exports, the control that member states actually exercise over companies located in their countries. we are not talking about illegal trade, we are talking about legal trade, and that is where parliament has a role to play, because it is here that we can go in and check and make sure that the weapons that we ourselves are selling, so to speak, do not fall into the wrong hands for various reasons. the illegal arms trade, we deal with it with a completely different set of rules. this is not the regulatory framework we can use for that. one of the speakers was clearly not talking at all about the control of arms exports of legal weapons but was talking about the new commission proposal which deals with a completely different issue, that of hunting weapons, shooting sports, etc. so that we are talking about two completely different things. i hope, however, that when we vote tomorrow we will be able to get broad enough support for the report in this house and that we can move on so that we will also have a new annual report next year, so that this will be the annual review that parliament is making of the legal sale of arms, and for which we have common rules.
writer. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. yes, the developments in malaysia in terms of the restrictions on freedom of expression and other fundamental freedoms, they are alarming. the government is doing its best to silence critics and the political opposition, and this is why parliament must today deplore the human rights situation being put at risk, and the legislation allowing for the targeting of representatives of civil society, academics, the media and the opposition. we therefore call on the government in the resolution to immediately release the political prisoners and ordinary people who are merely exercising their freedom of expression but who in no way pose a danger or risk to the security of the country, and also to immediately stop the increasing persecution and violence directed against lgbtq people in the country. it is important that we adopt the urgent resolution on the political situation in malaysia today. we must show the regime that freedom of speech is a fundamental human right that cannot be restricted anywhere. this is the eu's most important mission to protect fundamental rights both at home in europe and in the rest of the world.
in writing. - i've turned my voice down. the human rights texts, including the moratorium on the death penalty and the monitoring mechanisms in the agreement on mr issues, are welcome. like the emphasis on ilo conventions, women's rights and lgbt issues. in that respect, the agreement can serve as a model for many other future eu trade agreements. but the ideological underpinning of the agreement is neoliberal market economy, with no real regard for issues of social justice and sustainable development. that's why i'm gonna lower my voice.
‒ i have cast my vote on the report on the annual report. the report highlights good things, including surrogacy, the rights of women and lgbtq people, and the importance of binding human rights clauses in trade policy. the report, however, places far too much emphasis on a common foreign and security policy and supports the khartoum process. the report also stresses the importance of the eu's external borders and calls for the burden of refugees to be lifted. at a time when the eu does not respect the right to asylum, when the eu is deporting thousands of people to life-threatening situations, when the eu is protecting borders instead of people, i would need to see stronger language in support of human rights and an emphasis on solidarity rather than borders to support the report.
in writing. an important report on the eu's role in influencing human rights issues. i voted against the general condemnation of surrogacy and i voted for the recognition of western sahara as a sovereign state and i voted for the whole report.
- i've put my voice down. the report is characterised by a critical tone towards the arms exports of the eu countries, which contribute to the ongoing conflicts and wars in our world. but i think that the report would be even more critical and would make even clearer the importance of the eu not only in words but also in concrete actions in favour of peace and détente. some of the points in the report stress the need for a common foreign, security and defence policy on the part of the eu. i am opposed to this, because it is part of the construction of a european federal superpower. i defend my own country, and other countries, the right to freedom of association and an independent foreign policy for peace, détente and disarmament.
balanced and good report on eu arms exports. however, i voted against a new eu arms export control authority and made it clear that the new terrorism laws introduced against illegal weapons should not regulate legal weapons used by hunters and sport shooters.
in writing. ‒ the sweden democrats support the european code of conduct on arms exports and recognise the special responsibility of arms exporting states (the 8 eu criteria for arms export). sweden as a country has also signed the wassenaar arrangement on export of dual-use goods and technologies (based on consensus). we also have a rigorous national export control system. according to article 346 in teu, we also maintain the right to protect the national military industry. the sd opinion on further strengthening of the eu control mechanisms on member states’ arms- and dual-use goods export is that this control is mainly up to the common position, for member states to implement nationally.
in writing. ‒ the sweden democrats support the european code of conduct on arms exports and recognise the special responsibility of arms exporting states (the 8 eu criteria for arms export). sweden as a country has also signed the wassenaar arrangement on export of dual-use goods and technologies (based on consensus). we also have a rigorous national export control system. according to article 346 in teu, we also maintain the right to protect the national military industry. the sd opinion on further strengthening of the eu control mechanisms on member states’ arms- and dual-use goods export is that this control is mainly up to the common position, for member states to implement nationally.
