‒ while it is worthwhile to ensure a better environment for women entrepreneurs, i believe that the goal of more rigorous implementation of gender mainstreaming and parental leave in national law and stricter monitoring by eu agencies is misguided.
stoa, the science and technology options assessment committee of the european parliament, has considered cable cars to be important for sustainable transport and mobility in the studies.
this sustainability, together with e-mobility, will play a much greater role in the future.
‒ violence is not a political tool and all efforts to promote the peace process in colombia in a sustainable and efficient manner must be supported.
‒ violence is not a political tool and all efforts to promote the peace process in colombia in a sustainable and efficient manner must be supported.
it covers numerous sectors, be they strengthening of democratic principles or human rights, but also a framework for cooperation on sectors such as education, energy, environment, justice and home affairs and many more.
furthermore it creates great opportunities for enhancing contacts between people, between experts, between citizens, in sectors such as education, environment and culture, but also of course on combating crime and trafficking, and it foresees further strengthening of relations and cooperation with neighbouring countries, thus contributing also to stability in the region.
compliance with labour, social and environmental standards is our top priority.
that is why we are also calling for an ambitious sustainability chapter.
the economic consequences would be massive, not just for the key industries in europe, which are already struggling with high labour and energy costs.
just two messages: first, we have to be serious about promoting biodiversity.
we believe, and the examples show, very clearly, that where these conservation policies are properly implemented, where they are properly implemented, they produce sustainability in biodiversity.
the population - all eurobarometer surveys show this - is in favour of biodiversity.
i have to say, madam president, the loss of biodiversity is not only a loss of nature but also of ecological wealth.
the biodiversity strategy 2020 with its six pillars is certainly providing the right impetus.
we must look at how we can involve these farmers more and, above all, how we can support them more or less to do more for biodiversity and diversity.
since it is not clear how efficient this project will be, i am clearly against any further waste of money.
‒ a mid-term review of the 2011 strategy to halt biodiversity loss and the decline in ecosystem services and to restore as much as possible by 2020 is underway.
‒ since nature conservation is a prime example of a subject which needs to be better addressed at community level, and because environmental protection is also homeland protection, i support this report.
the protection of nature is a prime example of something that needs to be better dealt with at community level, and because protecting the environment is also protecting the environment, i support this report.
‒ since nature conservation is a prime example of a subject which needs to be better addressed at community level, and because environmental protection is also homeland protection, i support this report.
the commission is therefore invited to withdraw this draft and to make appropriate adjustments by april 2016 to ensure that all vehicles are subject to real driving emissions tests.
it is now clear that these test bench values from 1996 differ greatly from the actual emission values on the road: driving behaviour has a massive influence on emissions.
in real driving conditions, the actual nitrogen oxide emissions are up to 320 mg/km.
the introduction of real driving emissions test (rde) is therefore essential.
this is an ambitious target, given that real emissions are up to four times higher.
rde tests allow for the detectability of limit values and provide clarity and transparency in the interest of customer confidence and environmental protection.
this generous regulation now allows the value measured on the road to be more than twice the official limit value for laboratory measurement by 2020. after that, the emissions on the road may still be up to 50 percent above the laboratory value.
the rule of law is also important for the investment climate and is the basis for liberalising the economic structure.
based on the commission's winter forecast data on which the programme is based, the priorities of the 2016 annual growth survey are to boost investment activity, implement structural reforms and achieve sustainable fiscal consolidation.
the report also supports the various measures taken by the commission on the internal market strategy, such as the energy union, the capital union, etc., which i cannot support, and that is why i voted against it.
whether it's the new ibm software that uses big data analysis to distinguish genuine refugees from terrorists, to detect terrorist cells and to deter imminent attacks, or self-driving cars, or optimizing viticulture through iot-enabled real-time information about soil and climate conditions, or precision agriculture, where harvesting machines record yields with precise gps positioning, soil-based sensors measure nutrient and water content, and satellites provide increasingly accurate data on plant and soil composition, or even just industry 4.0. big data holds enormous potential for the telecommunications and automotive industries, for climate policy and resource efficiency, for health, energy and intelligent transport systems, and much more.
the european steel industry suffers from high energy prices, which are further exacerbated by the consequences of emissions trading, in particular the increased carbon leakage measures.
energy prices in europe are twice as high as in the usa, due to taxes, levies and subsidies.
in addition, the us steel industry has managed to reduce its co2 emissions without the ets and the government is not considering granting china market economy status automatically.
‒ while the report risks more red tape, it is essentially a good approach to the more sustainable use of animal antibiotics.
‒ the benefits of such a regulation would be a more efficient, better connected and more sustainable functioning of the trans-european transport network, but a new regulation would also mean more harmonised eu law, yet one more authority.
i think it is a waste of money and i have spoken against this report.
i am disappointed in several ways by the outcome of the eu-turkey summit: it is disappointing that there has not been a final, sustainable solution to the refugee issue.
i am particularly pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative of proposing a new regulation on the protection of the environment.
but we have to be careful now, in prevention, that excessive, uncontrolled use of biocides doesn't actually have the opposite effect -- that while it may reduce the risk of zika virus on the one hand, it also brings new risks from biocides in general, not just to the health of individuals, but to our biodiversity in general.
in addition to new export efforts, however, a sustainable aid package must also shed light on the role of the individual actors along the value chain.
‒ coastal fishing is of great importance in many eu countries, as it provides a high level of employment and is not only socially but also ecologically sustainable.
however, the report also aims at maximising sustainable yields and stresses the need for the eu to maintain its standards in its external fisheries-related activities.
however, it would be much more important and sustainable to use development cooperation funds in a targeted way to eliminate the causes of displacement and to reintegrate migrants in their countries of origin.
while calling for greater solidarity among member states and for a sustainable budgetary and legal framework, the funds (eur 100 000 000) from the asylum, migration and integration fund (amif) are to be refinanced from the emergency fund.
until the impact on both human health and the environment is clear, any further sale must be stopped immediately.
we condemn in this resolution the brutal killing on 3 march of berta cáceres, an indigenous environmental activist, and also that of nelson garcía, who was killed two weeks later because they were fighting against the agua zarca dam on the gualcarque river.
we want an independent international investigation, within the framework of the inter-american commission on human rights, and that companies involved in large projects respect high social and ecological standards.
but nowhere in the region is it more dangerous for human rights activists than in this country - whether they are fighting for the rights of indigenous peoples, for the protection of the environment or against land grabbing, for the rights of lgbt people or for freedom of expression.
as a short response, i would like to reiterate, as rapporteur for the edf, that we not only want to tackle the root causes of the refugee crisis and promote sustainable development, but we also want to be able to respond quickly and flexibly to existing and future needs.
the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment.
‒ the discharge report calls for the decommitment of unused appropriations and for greater transparency, particularly in relation to the emissions scandal.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionizing radiation.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it is very critical and highlights waste, such as travel costs, lack of transparency and lack of benefits for citizens.
on the one hand, attention is drawn to unnecessary waste, such as travel costs, and on the other to the lack of transparency and the lack of benefits for citizens.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
‒ since the era still has two seats and this is a waste of money, i voted against the discharge.
‒ the report criticises the agency's low cost assessment and waste of funds.
but i think mountain regions all face similar challenges, whether it's climate change, or people's access to public services, to educational institutions, to the job market.
for example, there is a very good project which we would also like to mention, an internet project called women-alpnet, which explicitly aims to promote the participation of women in sustainable development in the alpine region.
infrastructure expenditure: commissioner cañete, you mentioned recently, last week, that europe has a 200 billion investment gap in the energy sector.
however, the concerns mentioned above, namely regarding ukraine as a gas transit country and the modernisation of the ukrainian gas pipeline infrastructure, as well as the compatibility of nord stream 2 with eu law, in particular the issue of the territorial application of the third energy package, should be addressed.
nothing prevents a partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of liberia on sustainable fisheries.
i support the eu-liberia partnership agreement on sustainable fisheries.
sustainable fisheries are an important step towards economic development.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european union-wide network of information centres for the protection of the environment.
there is no sustainable european solution outside our borders.
in principle, there is nothing against the principle of open borders, all the environmental conditions must be adapted to it, and you must feel safe.
the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals will be used to give the commission new powers and mechanisms that it could then use without restriction to implement the agenda without prior consultation and agreement of the member states .
the commission also adopted a report on the implementation of the eu's new law on the protection of the environment, which aims to improve the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
the commission also adopted a report on the implementation of the eu's new law on the protection of the environment, which aims to improve the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
the commission is not the european energy market is currently undergoing a profound transformation and we need to ensure that consumers are at the heart of this change.
this is why a new deal for energy consumers is urgently needed.
first, we must ensure that there is real competition in the energy market and that switching between suppliers is facilitated.
secondly, we need clear, transparent and easily accessible information for consumers, especially in relation to energy billing.
prosumers can actively contribute to improving energy efficiency and will play an important role in the further development of the energy system in the future.
this is the only way to create a successful european internal energy market.
the energy poverty debate is often mixed with the general debate on renewable energy.
(2) it is not the energy source per se that harms disadvantaged customers, but unfair marketing practices, because these lead to a loss of confidence and ultimately reduce individual commitment.
in principle, the more competitive the energy market, the better for consumers.
the increasing number of customers switching energy suppliers is evidence of this.
we had a really great discussion about sustainable forest management.
‒ the report calls for a common approach to energy poverty.
the report also has a market-anticipating approach, which could harm the dynamism of the european energy landscape.
commercial corporations that sell milk and meat as a lure at below the asking price are failing to produce sustainable food at the expense of our farmers and consumers.
‒ the report addresses the issue of sustainable development in the context of the food gap in africa.
in addition to these technical solutions, the report also addresses the fight against food waste.
the eu should have started tackling the causes of displacement in a sustainable way, either materially or diplomatically, years ago.
a new fund will be endowed with 62 billion euro and will serve as a motivation for rapid and sustainable implementation.
we need big projects, more sustainability, more investment in the digital future, we need higher risk profiles.
this is the only way to create sustainable growth and jobs in europe.
the efsi should also ensure that investments are in line with the europe 2020 objectives of poverty reduction, reduction of early school leaving, climate protection and promotion of research and development.
the efsi must become the instrument it was designed to be: to cushion the impact of the crisis with investments in health, social infrastructure, energy and environmental projects, the digital domain and new innovations.
the rapporteur considers that the draft does not meet the objective of health and environmental protection required by directive 2001/18/ec and that the implementing powers provided for in that directive have therefore been exceeded.
the opposition is systematically eliminated, the ngo space is restricted, the trade unions are put on the back burner, and a climate of fear has spread throughout the country.
the commission has also proposed to extend the scope of the directive to cover the following areas: the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment against pollution, the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of chemicals, the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of pesticides, the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of pesticides, and the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of pesticides.
the next item is the increase in the number of judges from 28 to 56. this increase is a waste of money if the specialised court is not closed.
the commission will also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states and the commission on the implementation of the union's climate change strategy.
in this regard, the commission is invited to support the objectives of a sustainable and energy-efficient shift of passenger and freight transport to rail, as set out in the 2011 transport white paper, through concrete policy measures and targeted investments.
the fight sports, which very often attract young people who want to exert themselves, so to speak, are creating something new in this environment.
it is clear that the speaker has a lot to say about the outcome in rome and in italy, but the things we have to say today are equally important, namely the two reports which are here to show the state of play in the field of renewable energy and energy efficiency.
in the field of renewables, while member states are on track to meet the 2020 targets with a share of 15,3% in 2014 , the implementation of energy efficiency is less good.
the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to set up a national energy efficiency strategy to support the implementation of the 2020 targets.
i do not know whether it was appropriate in this context to reduce the flexibility provided for in article 7. member states used to be free to choose their energy efficiency mix, but this is no longer possible to this extent.
we should be realistic, energy efficiency is important, but so is realism.
.... unfortunate constraints that make it difficult to do business, buildings offer, alongside road transport, the crucial opportunity for further energy savings and for achieving efficiency targets.
so we should encourage architects and builders to build traditional, regional and climate-appropriate building concepts and materials instead of glass energy-destroying machines.
for centuries, humans have learned to live with the adversity of nature and optimize energy use.
‒ sustainable fishing is a very positive contribution to the recovery of tuna stocks.
sustainable ecological economy is of immense importance for our future.
fisheries and aquaculture must be environmentally and socially sustainable.
sustainable, ecological fisheries are of immense importance to the seas.
‒ while promoting renewable energy is important, this report makes demands that go far beyond the eu's competence and technical capabilities.
linking renewable energy with energy poverty is also wrong: social policy is a matter for member states, while the integration of renewables is a technical problem that is currently being solved by many levies and subsidies.
i am therefore abstaining on this report because of these considerations and because of my support for renewable energy.
‒ the promotion of 'renewable energy' is of immense importance, but there are some inaccuracies in the wording of this report.
the promotion of renewable energy is one of the greatest challenges of our time.
there is also a climate package negotiated between member states which should be implemented first.
‒ basically, this report is about the very important topic of 'renewable energy sources'.
i too believe that in the future we will need a sustainable and, above all, independent energy model.
it is a fact that the energy mix of individual countries cannot be centrally determined because of geographical and industrial differences.
i am in favour of a path towards more renewable energy sources, but i do not think that this report can make a positive contribution to this because of its demands, so i prefer to abstain.
‒ the report contains some very welcome recommendations that would be useful in strengthening energy efficiency in europe and help consumers save electricity and money.
the report also confuses energy efficiency with energy saving, but at the same time calls for more production from renewable sources, which is contradictory in that the share of this energy can only be a substitute for energy from conventional sources under certain conditions.
‒ energy efficiency is an important issue for a sustainable future for austria and it is one that cannot be addressed enough.
‒ i voted neutral, as the basic approach to energy efficiency is fully supported, but some of the demands go far beyond the measure.
in particular, the concept of energy efficiency is sometimes confused with energy saving.
‒ the report deals with the implementation of the energy efficiency directive.
sustainable energy production and the optimal use of available resources is one of the greatest challenges of the 21st century.
energy efficiency means something quite different in finland than in spain.
the present report on a new energy efficiency labelling of household appliances is primarily in the interest of consumers.
the aim is to increase the efficiency of energy labelling by simplifying scaling, i.e.
there will be no return to the familiar and proven a to g labels for energy-efficient products, including a process to scale up the existing a+++ plus a to d labels.
the energy label is a success story we heard it today: 85% of european consumers rely on the label when making their purchasing decisions, and it is also a driving force in the industry for innovative developments: €450 million has been saved through the labels.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
this should lead to a reduction in energy consumption and energy costs.
it is essential that the principles of responsibility and sustainability are enshrined in all trade agreements.
technological change, globalisation, climate change - all these pose enormous challenges for the political system, but also for the population, which must be brought up to date with appropriate measures in the field of education and training.
‒ this is a technical report on ultrafine particulate matter (ufpm) emissions from combustion engines and air quality in general.
those combustion engines which are not installed in motor vehicles and in combustion plants and are not treated in the context of industrial emissions are responsible for around 15% of all nox emissions and 5% of all particulate matter emissions in the eu.
‒ this proposal deals with air pollution from machinery and equipment not used in road transport.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis.
‒ the proposal for a regulation addresses air pollution caused by non-road mobile machinery (nrmm).
‒ the report on the implementation of parliament's recommendations on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate social responsibility pursues in principle worthy objectives such as promoting sustainable development, improving working conditions and making greater efforts in the field of environmental protection.
‒ this is a report on the proposal for a framework for energy efficiency labelling.
this approach promotes sustainable development and i therefore support this resolution.
under the guise of a new scientific whale research programme (newrep-a), this country is clearly ignoring the judgment of the icj and undermining the protection of marine biodiversity and ecosystems.
however, it should be noted that eu interference in national decision-making powers, such as the energy mix, is to be rejected.
like the european union, the united nations faces a wide range of challenges: global refugee movements, climate change, global terrorism, the war in syria, the chaos in libya, but also hunger and poverty in many regions of the world.
these challenges are now about making the right and important choices and presenting fast and sustainable solutions.
‒ this resolution is directed against the scientifically based findings and recommendations on caffeine by efsa in general and against the marketing of energy drinks in particular.
the one-sided emphasis on energy drinks in the objection is not understandable: the information is generally applicable to products containing caffeine.
this report on the redesign of the energy market is in line with the commission's guidelines and does very well in terms of security of supply and improved regional cooperation.
the main points of this report are certainly the improvement of the regulatory environment, especially in terms of contributing an increased share of renewable energy, decentralisation to boost investment and in particular to allow smes better access to the energy grid and also to balance the networks, the position of prosumers a call for a chapter on prosumers in the renewable energy directive was made here for the first time more transparency in price signals, in particular to better attract market prices to consumers, and a more adequate system in the area of regional cooperation, greater interconnectivity and an adequate importance of storage.
the creation of a european energy union requires a major leap forward: the profound and market-based restructuring of the energy market together with the implementation of existing legislation.
i am convinced that we in europe deserve a competitive, transparent and liberal internal market in energy.
only in this way can we guarantee the energy supply for european citizens and at the same time create better conditions for consumers.
this requires some fundamental changes in the current system: first, we have to make sure that we put a market-based energy system in place.
this includes, in particular, the abolition of regulated prices and the creation of better price signals for investment in the energy sector.
i am convinced that only a comprehensive market transformation will create a successful european internal energy market.
the protection and sustainable management of our nature and environment are of course important and desirable; but the people must not be left behind in the pursuit of this goal.
the local population can enjoy the beauty of the alpine landscape, but if they cannot find a job or are forced to leave their home region, the price paid for nature and the environment is too high.
birds of prey and predators, alone safeguards biodiversity, as envisaged in the report, is open to debate from a hunting point of view.
the conference also committed itself to implementing the climate change objectives.
china and the united states have certainly been the highlights here, committing themselves to the paris climate targets.
sustainable growth must address this issue first and foremost.
‒ a parliamentary inquiry into the emissions scandal is to be launched.
‒ a parliamentary inquiry is launched into the car industry's emissions scandal.
it provides for the collection of price statistics not only for non-household customers but also for household customers, in order to enable informed decisions to be taken in the field of european energy policy for the benefit of electricity and gas consumers.
‒ a very successful report that envisages the opening up of energy markets across borders and further promotes the integration of renewable energies.
the rapporteur also confirms that the member states are autonomous in determining their energy mix.
it also intends to further the integration of energy markets without at the same time extending the commission's powers.
‒ it postulates energy security as a policy objective for the future electricity market.
particular emphasis is placed on renewable energy and low-carbon electricity generation.
‒ it postulates energy security as a policy objective for the future electricity market.
particular emphasis is placed on renewable energy and low-carbon electricity generation.
‒ the report contains some very innovative ideas to make the energy used for heating and cooling more sustainable.
‒ this report has positive approaches, as it correctly diagnoses the lack of energy efficiency.
‒ this report has positive approaches, as it correctly diagnoses the lack of energy efficiency.
these include proposals such as the protection of natural water sources, new investment strategies for greater sustainability and the preservation of biodiversity.
we do not see sadc as being in line with our social democratic objectives in the areas of development, climate change and migration.
we do not see sadc as being in line with our social democratic objectives in the areas of development, climate change and migration.
we do not see sadc as being in line with our social democratic objectives in the areas of development, climate change and migration.
‒ this motion for a resolution contains very correct approaches to environmental protection, but at the same time establishes an insufficiently substantiated link between trophy hunting and species extinction.
the waste of resources is also criticised.
i would like to point out once again, and i think it is important to emphasize, that today's debate is not a finger pointing at our european forest owners, who have been taking care of our green treasure for generations with sustainable forest management.
ladies and gentlemen, we have a responsibility here for future generations, because, in addition to the economic damage, illegal logging is also a massive intrusion into our global ecosystem.
this agreement is supposed to be about protecting our climate and our environment, but this agreement is not a step in the right direction and is not compatible with my understanding of climate protection.
nuclear energy is considered to be a proven means of achieving emission reduction targets.
‒ i voted against this report because it favours countries that rely on nuclear energy.
if the report had contained binding targets for the share of renewable energy, my decision would have been different.
‒ the paris agreement (cop 21) on climate protection is not a step in the right direction and is incompatible with our policy for several reasons.
for example, under this agreement, nuclear energy is considered a proven means of achieving emission reduction targets due to its low co2 emissions, while large multinational corporations such as monsanto were waiting in the negotiations to propose genetically modified seeds as a climate-friendly alternative to conventional farming.
climate change must not be at the expense of the environment or our health, which is why i did not agree to this report.
the imf has long expressed doubts about greece's debt sustainability, most recently in an analysis in may of this year.
the youth unemployment rate was approximately 47.7% in august 2016. i believe that the debt sustainability of greece is highly questionable, as confirmed by these data.
as agreed and repeatedly called for by the imf and also by commissioner moscovici, debt relief for greece is needed to return to sustainable growth.
sustainable investment in the country's future to create jobs is necessary.
the same applies to the high labour, social and environmental standards and the exception of special rights of appeal.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
it's about a climate of humanity.
the question arises why the number of children born per woman in the eu is on average 1.58 whereas in poland it is only 1.3%, in france 2.0 and in sweden 1.8. this situation shows us that we need to create a climate in which children are welcome, as the polish initiative 'save the women' wants.
the next item is the debate on the following questions: the request for an oral reply to the council on the un climate change conference 2016 in marrakesh (morocco) (cop 22) by giovanni la via, peter liese, jo leinen, julie girling, gerben-jan gerbrandy, estefanía torres martínez, bas eickhout, marco affronte, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000103/2016 - b8-0718/2016) (2016/2814(rsp)) and the request for an oral reply to the commission on the un climate change conference 2016 in marrakesh (morocco) (cop 22) by giovanni la via, peter liese, jo leinen, julie girling, gerben-jan estebrandy, gerben-jan martínez, marco eickhout, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000104/2016 - b8-0419/2016) and the request for an oral reply to the commission on the un climate change conference 2016 in marrakesh (morocco) (cop 22) by giovanni la via, peter liese, jo leinen, julie girling, gerben-jan gerbrandy, gerben-jan esteban, gerbrandy, marco eickhout, marco eick torres martínez, marco eick and estefanía torres, on behalf of the committee on the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o000103-0718/08/2016-08/2016 - b8-08-04/2016);
the commission has already made a number of proposals.
the ratification of the climate treaty has been celebrated with big words like 'historic day' or 'the miracle continues'.
it is therefore particularly surprising that there were still people in this house who apparently deny climate change, who also voted against ratification yesterday.
we have received many examples today that we need solidarity in the future to really bring this climate agreement to life now.
we have many opportunities in this parliament in the coming weeks and months to prove that we are serious about this commitment - whether it is to negotiate the emissions trading system or whether it is to move towards a circular economy.
this is all evidence where we can show that we are serious about a carbon-free future.
i ask everyone in this house to continue to have 610 members of parliament who say: yes, we want a future without co2 emissions!
‒ i am very concerned about climate and environmental protection.
but here co2 emissions have been identified as the essential pillar of this agreement.
i voted against this because it indirectly supports those countries which rely on nuclear energy.
‒ the motion for a resolution welcomes the paris agreement on climate change (cop 21), which i have already rejected for several serious reasons, as a 'milestone in the fight against climate change'.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
on the one hand, the cross-border development of gas deposits is to become one of the key instruments for implementing the principle of energy solidarity in the event of gas shortages and emergency situations.
in europe, the people who pay for this waste of money can have enough.
we've had enough of this waste of money.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the european union.
the aim of the project is to develop a european strategy for the protection of the environment and the environment from climate change, and to develop a european strategy for the protection of the environment and the environment.
only investments in health, social infrastructure, energy and environmental projects and the digital domain can cushion the social impact of the crisis.
the problem with qe remains that states no longer feel pressure to implement necessary structural reforms, and therefore the signals from the european commission, the troika/quadriga and the monetary policy environment are in conflict.
the european semester, however, is not sustainable in the member states.
these include digitisation measures that will create new opportunities for customers and investors, increase competition and create innovative financial products, the low interest rate environment and the greater integration of banks.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european union-wide network of national experts in the field of the environment.
while calls for reducing red tape, increasing interconnectivity, creating sea highways and removing bottlenecks between the developed western european inland waterway systems and the less developed eastern european systems are welcome, the potential of passenger transport is too small to make a significant contribution to a sustainable and efficient transport sector.
the report does not mention the leveling of existing waterways and the environmental problems associated with it.
the report also supports renewable energy sources and solar and wind energy for seagoing vessels.
the potential of passenger transport by ship is, in my view, too small to make a significant contribution to a sustainable and efficient transport sector.
the vote will take place on wednesday 23 november 2016. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral reply to the commission on the agreement on trade in environmental protection products, tabled by mr bernd lange and mrs alessia maria mosca, on behalf of the committee on international trade (o-000138/2016 b8-1811/2016) (2016/2980(rsp)).
how can we explain to them that this investment would, on the other hand, free up some 40 billion euros in europe, which we need today in health care, in the environment, to counter these damages caused by air pollution?
we can help to provide not only for health here, but for a better environment.
greenhouse gases cannot be stopped by borders, and when it comes to climate, we are all in the same boat, globally.
unfortunately, we can't choose whether our neighbor in this boat believes in climate change or not.
climate finance and the division between north and south, between islands and the mainland, will really shape our policies massively in the coming years.
the eu is also well on track to meet its 2020 and 2030 targets, and with the climate package, the effort sharing decision proposals and many others, we have the right foundations for this.
agriculture in particular is massively affected by the effects of climate change and i believe it is in our hands, together with the economy and innovation in europe, to prepare ourselves for the climate future.
climate debt at the expense of our grandchildren really has to be the end.
it is not directly climate change, and it is not directly energy production that i want to deal with now, but its effects.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the use of the european union's resources in the field of biodiversity.
that is to say, my request is that - also in view of cop 22, the impact of climate change on the european union and on our environment - we do not reopen this package here, but continue to monitor the existing legislation, implementation and control.
we are protecting our social, environmental and consumer standards and securing a good future for our agriculture.
air pollution causes an external health cost (approximately eur 330-940 billion) to society in europe.
the commission proposal repeals the existing national emission ceiling directives and sets new emission ceilings for sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, ammonia and volatile organic non-methane hydrocarbons for 2020 and 2030. the proposal requires member states to establish national air pollution control programmes.
the eu's focus over the past decade has been mainly on tackling climate change, leading to a neglect of air quality.
for example, the proportion of diesel vehicles that produce more nitrogen oxides and particulate matter but have 15% less co2 emissions increased.
the commission has also proposed that the directive should cover methane, which is a major source of pollution.
the cap should be involved in order to achieve more environmentally friendly measures in european agriculture, in particular a reduction in ammonia and methane emissions.
this active substance is a herbicide against broadleaf plants and is commonly used in agriculture, where there is a high risk of groundwater pollution.
however, in paragraph 56 of that report, legal and therefore sustainable trophy hunting was also mentioned as a major reason for the endangerment of endangered animals, and this follows more from an ideological position against sustainable hunting than from reason.
the sustainable hunting of wildlife has certainly not led to the extinction of species in recent decades, quite the contrary.
and we have to say, sustainable hunting is ultimately just protecting the environment.
as a result of the fact that a very large number of workers fall into this category and that they must be guaranteed an adequate, secure and sustainable pension, i am voting in favour of this report.
‒ in view of an ageing european society, there is a need to adapt pension systems in the european union to ensure an adequate, secure and sustainable pension for all citizens.
it regrets that the ep's committee of inquiry into emissions measurements in the automotive sector (emis) has only been supplied with partial documents by the commission and that therefore relevant information may be missing.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because we need to protect europe's flora and fauna in a sustainable way.
‒ the austrian fauna and flora must be protected in a sustainable way!
‒ i abstained on this report because i believe that the austrian fauna and flora must be protected in a sustainable way.
the austrian fauna and flora need to be protected in a sustainable way.
the rapporteur therefore seeks to create the most favourable regulatory, social and tax environment possible and to extend the benefits currently enjoyed by smes to these micro-enterprises, thereby enabling them to operate across borders.
the theme of the 2016 internet governance forum is 'enable inclusive and sustainable growth'.
‒ the rapporteur deals with non-liability for environmental damage from offshore activities.
in this respect, the offshore safety directive was adopted in 2014, which allows licensees to be held accountable for the prevention and remediation of all environmental damage resulting from their activities, irrespective of their liability.
the rapporteur therefore calls for comprehensive harmonisation in the area of offshore activities, as is already the case in the directive on the criminal protection of the environment.
the report goes beyond its aim: instead of allowing developing countries to take control of their own energy access, it maintains a prescriptive stance, calls for the abolition of subsidies that allow certain sectors in developing countries to operate in the first place, insists on renewable energy, even though many countries are not equipped to do so, and completely excludes other useful aspects such as off-grid electricity.
‒ instead of allowing developing countries to take control of their own energy access, the rapporteur maintains a prescriptive finger-pointing attitude, calls for the abolition of subsidies that allowed certain sectors in developing countries to operate in the first place, insists on renewable energy, even though many countries are not equipped to do so, and completely ignores other useful aspects such as off-grid solutions.
following the paris agreement and the eu emissions trading scheme, the commission presented its proposal for an accelerated transition to a low-carbon economy in the summer, and now the winter package, a package for clean energy for all.
and it certainly also confirms and ensures that the eu can take a leading role in the field of clean energy systems globally.
the current package has three main priorities: increasing energy efficiency, the eu's global leadership in renewable energy and a special focus on consumers.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy market is not distorted.
by 2020, the annual energy savings from ecodesign measures alone will be equivalent to the energy consumption of italy and households can save up to eur 500 per year.
the eu's energy policy is also a major driver of global investment, with clean energy attracting €300 billion in global investment last year alone.
to meet the 2030 targets, it will be another 379 000, in particular for the construction industry through an amendment to the energy performance of buildings directive, and a market of eur 120 billion for smes in particular.
congratulations on the clean energy package.
finally, we should also have a binding target of 30% of gdp in manufacturing by 2030. if we see that france is currently at 11%, then this is a huge opportunity that this clean energy package will create new jobs here, and of course also investments.
the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the efficiency of the energy market, in particular investment in the thermal protection of houses against cold and heat.
my proposal is that the emissions trading system, the revenue generated by the national finance ministers, should be made available to the european investment bank and thus start an investment programme that allows these energy efficiency measures to be put into the pockets of the citizens.
it is emphasised that the cultural and creative industries, which are predominantly composed of smes, operate in a constantly changing environment and are therefore challenged to develop new business models in order to design market-oriented solutions and to address new target groups.
it is emphasised that the cultural and creative industries, which are predominantly composed of smes, operate in a constantly changing environment and are therefore challenged to think and design new business models in order to develop market-oriented solutions and to address new target groups.
it is emphasised that the cultural and creative industries, which are predominantly composed of smes, operate in a constantly changing environment and are therefore challenged to think and design new business models in order to develop market-oriented solutions and to address new target groups.
these were an economically strong europe, a modern single market, a sustainable migration and asylum policy and a globally committed europe.
the slovak presidency also took part in major decisions such as the ratification of the paris agreement on climate change and the ceta trade agreement, the fight against tax avoidance and the preparation of the 2017 budget of the european union.
these core requirements are about the inclusion of binding sustainability chapters, which are very important to us.
it is about human rights, it is about ilo labour standards, it is about multilateral environmental conventions.
but it is also regrettable that the implementation of this sustainability chapter in peru and colombia has not yet worked as well.
the commission proposal aims to contribute to a more efficient, better connected and sustainable operation of the trans-european transport network (ten-t) by creating a framework in which all ports can improve their performance and adapt to changing transport and logistics requirements.
the main objectives of the proposal include the modernisation of port services and port operations and the creation of an attractive environment for investment in ports.
‒ the commission's proposal aims to contribute to a more efficient, better connected and sustainable functioning of the trans-european transport network (ten-t) by creating a framework in which all ports can improve their performance and adapt to changing transport and logistics requirements.
the main objectives of the proposal include the modernisation of port services and port operations and the creation of an attractive environment for investment in ports.
‒ the commission's proposal aims to contribute to a more efficient, better connected and sustainable functioning of the trans-european transport network (ten-t) by creating a framework in which all ports can improve their performance and adapt to changing transport and logistics requirements.
the main objectives of the proposal include the modernisation of port services and port operations and the creation of an attractive environment for investment in ports.
the research projects financed cover production processes, the use and conservation of resources, improvements in environmental protection and safety at work in the sectors concerned.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the report also covers climate change, cybersecurity, the situation in syria, the situation in other potentially vulnerable states and the situation with russia.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the report also covers climate change, cybersecurity, the situation in syria, the situation in other potentially vulnerable states and the situation with russia.
the cap objectives 2014-2020: increased competitiveness, improved sustainability, greater efficiency = combating volatility and stabilising incomes.
the cap objectives 2014-2020: increased competitiveness, improved sustainability, greater efficiency = combating volatility and stabilising incomes.
the secondary issue is the discussion on the debt-sustainability of greece and the level of the primary surplus.