member of the commission.– madam president, today we are discussing the introduction of the new emissions testing procedures for cars in the eu.
currently, the real nox emissions by diesel cars are, on average, 400 mg/km.
that is 4-5 times higher than the legal emissions limit of euro 6 cars.
we will be the first in the world to introduce emissions tests on real roads under real driving conditions.
it will no longer be possible to cheat in emissions tests.
in the first stage emissions will be reduced to 168 mg/km by september next year and then, by january 2020, the limits will be reduced still further to 120 mg/km.
still – and i want to underline this – i consider this agreement substantial progress because we are halving the nox emissions of diesel cars currently on the streets and, at the same time, we are forcing the automotive industry to speed up efforts to make cars cleaner and respect our common environmental goals.
this is why we need the new rules as soon as possible, and this is why we need – and ask for – your agreement on the commission’s proposals on introducing real driving emissions tests in the eu.
the real driving emissions tests are only one part of the package.
we want to bring down nox emissions as much as possible.
that is why the legal proposal on the real driving emissions test procedures suggests a so-called annual revision clause.
each year, the commission will assess the portable measurements technology: this is the technology which actually measures the emissions under real driving conditions.
that is why the existence of the annual revision clause provides legal certainty and an incentive for car manufacturers to design their cars with much lower emissions than the current limit.
in the course of this year, the commission will propose a third regulatory package on real driving emissions testing to increase transparency.
the idea is that the conformity factor of each vehicle is shown in its certificate of conformity: the consumer will be fully aware of the emissions performance of his/her vehicle.
this is why we urgently need new rules on type approval and emissions testing to be in place.
last, but not least, a few words about euro 5/6 proposals: the parliament and council are currently negotiating some revisions of the euro 5 and euro 6 legislation, which is also the parent legislation to the act on introducing real driving emissions.
our objective is to have a very smooth and rapid implementation of the new real driving emissions procedure in the future.
we are ready to work together with you, and of course with the council, to find a balanced solution because we want to achieve our environmental objectives and we are determined to respect the institutional balance.
i am confident that this new framework will restore the effectiveness of our legal system to protect both consumers and the environment.
we want to reduce harmful nitrogen oxide emissions effectively and as quickly as possible.
so we need to reduce those emissions.
we have to look at what the nitrogen oxide emissions are today in real driving conditions and then what the decision is as it stands.
for many of them, victims of the banking and business crisis, the lack of skills is a structural barrier to accessing sustainable employment that will enable them to pursue a life project.
the purpose of this regulation is to incorporate into union law the recommendations of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas, which aim to ensure the conservation of tuna stocks and thus the sustainability of fishing opportunities.
the recommendations in this report take account of the positive evolution of tuna stocks in recent years, which is the result of management measures to ensure the sustainability of these stocks.
‒ yesterday, the european parliament adopted the proposal for a regulation incorporating all the measures for the recovery of bluefin tuna stocks in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean adopted between 2012 and 2014. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionising radiation.
in implementing it, the union and the member states should pay particular attention to artisanal fishing activities and the most artisanal and sustainable gear such as traditional traps ('almadrabas', 'tunnare'), which contribute very positively to the recovery of tuna stocks, due to their high level of selectivity, low environmental impact on marine ecosystems and scientific importance.
‒ i voted in favour of this decision because the recovery plan aims to conserve and optimise the use of fish stocks in the atlantic and the mediterranean, so that we can achieve sustainable fishing in europe in the long term.
it cannot be a sustainable european construction without social and fiscal justice.
the resolution also stresses the need to combat social dumping and promote high labour and environmental standards through competition policy.
innovation, investment, competitiveness and sustainability must be the cornerstones of our competition policy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
for many of them, victims of the banking and business crisis, the lack of skills is a structural barrier to accessing sustainable employment that will enable them to pursue a life project.
we must increase the supply of quality jobs and create structural and sustainable jobs for all.
we must advocate that training programmes include the development, in a safe environment, of the professional skills necessary for the creation and management of enterprises, and that transversal entrepreneurial skills, abilities and knowledge are promoted which are effectively acquired through practical and real-life experience.
‒ this non-legislative resolution adopted yesterday is parliament's response to the roadmap presented by the commission in may 2015. the text is based on two key objectives: first, to improve access to the digital single market for consumers and businesses across europe; and second, to create an enabling environment and fair conditions of competition for innovative services and advanced digital networks.
this package is really a major step forward in our endeavour to simplify the regulatory environment as the so-called ‘new approach’ directives are changed into regulations, which will be directly applicable in every eu member state.
i note that there is an agreement there to limit global warming to a maximum of two degrees and if possible to one and a half degrees.
you may have spent half a sentence on it, but last year, at the end of 2015, we reached an incredibly important climate agreement in paris, in which the european commission played a very important role.
i wonder whether you, as the dutch presidency (because you yourself do not have a particularly good track record on climate) will have the courage and strength to make these adjustments and set in motion an ambitious climate policy.
‒ i have approved this report, which supports the proposal for a regulation to simplify and harmonise european legislation on the internal market for gas appliances by enhancing consumer safety and the rational use of energy.
it should be noted that the gsp+ is a system of tariff preferences granted by the eu member states to developing countries which show efforts in the field of good governance (implementation of international conventions on human rights, labour rights and sustainable development).
‒ in this resolution, in addition to voting in favour in the final vote, i supported amendments which recommend reducing the intake of free sugars to less than 10% of the total energy intake in cereal-based preparations and baby foods and which consider that reducing the intake of sugars to less than 5% would have additional benefits for infant health.
for the very first time, in paris almost all states all over the world developing countries and emerging economies have committed themselves to taking the necessary measures to tackle climate change.
the climate agreement in that sense is a game changer and a reason to become at least a little bit optimistic about the future, and paris the city of lights has also become the city of hope.
we all know that they represent a lot of emissions: the emissions of these two sectors, for example, can be compared with the emissions of south korea and germany put together, and these are rising.
we said 80% for 2050. we should go now to the higher end, and make sure that our emissions go down 95% by 2050. so we need to look to the world, but we can only look to the world if we take our own responsibilities.
human rights require a stable environment and with your immigration policy you have helped to destroy that stable environment in europe.
it involves strengthening democratic principles and human rights and creates a framework for cooperation in areas such as education, energy, the environment, justice and home affairs.
other provisions, of course, also concern political dialogue and cooperation in a wide range of areas, from education and employment to energy and the environment, justice and home affairs.
it covers many areas, including respect for and strengthening of democratic principles and human rights, and creates a framework for cooperation in areas such as education, energy, the environment, justice and home affairs.
‒ i voted in favour of the appointment of the members of the committee of inquiry into the measurement of emissions in the automotive sector and wish them well.
particular attention will also be paid to combating social and environmental dumping.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the text also recalls that freedom of expression and a dynamic and favourable environment for an independent and pluralistic civil society are essential conditions for the defence of respect for human rights.
finally, justice remains the main area of concern for the petitioners in 2014, followed by the environment, the functioning of the internal market, fundamental rights and health.
today we are discussing the annual report of the european central bank for 2014. in that year, the governing council adopted a series of measures to respond to the impairment of our monetary policy transmission channels and to the low inflation environment.
they relate to the global environment, the situation of the financial system, the economic and fiscal policies of member states and the political uncertainty surrounding the european project.
first, as regards the global environment: growth prospects are slowly improving in advanced economies, but the outlook in emerging markets is more subdued.
this is important to maintain confidence in the european fiscal framework and in the sustainability of public finances.
but the ongoing cyclical recovery in the euro area should also be supported by effective structural policies, particularly actions to improve the business environment, including the provision of an adequate public infrastructure.
the commission fully shares parliament’s view that europe cannot only rely on monetary policy and a favourable external environment to lift gdp growth and to raise our economy’s growth potential.
the commission agrees with the european parliament that fiscal adjustment, using the flexibility that is built into the rules of the stability and growth pact, needs to go hand in hand with the implementation of structural reforms: reforms of product, services and labour markets that increase productivity, help regain competitiveness, improve the business environment and reduce inequality.
it is reassuring to know that we can count on your support in building the foundations for sustainable growth and job creation in europe.
investing in nature and biodiversity must be at the heart of a smart, sustainable and inclusive europe.
in fact, in addition to the overwhelming intrinsic value of nature, biodiversity offers invaluable socioeconomic benefits.
the added value of natura 2000, the european network of high-quality nature, is many times greater than the cost of management and the lack of a biodiversity strategy will cost us 50 billion euros a year.
the loss of biodiversity is therefore rightly considered one of the greatest global threats, and it is.
however, we are seriously lagging behind in the implementation of the european biodiversity strategy and are today far from halfway towards the 2020 targets.
better implementation, stricter enforcement and further integration of biodiversity into other policy areas are essential.
a review of this would put the biodiversity strategy itself on the back foot, would bring about a long period of legal uncertainty and would potentially weaken these milestones of european nature policy.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected.
the committee on the environment has already supported my report almost unanimously.
the ministers also expressed their explicit support for the nature directives at the environment council on 16 december, stressing in particular the importance of better implementation.
i also expect the commission to make efforts to take additional measures, to find additional innovative solutions to halt the loss of biodiversity in europe, such as the practical implementation of a trans-european network of green infrastructure, initiatives to prevent the loss of biodiversity outside protected areas and actions to protect pollinators.
ladies and gentlemen, the loss of biodiversity means loss for nature, for people, for the economy.
‒ the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution was signed in 1979 and entered into force in 1983. it has since been extended by eight protocols specifically identifying measures to be taken by the parties to reduce their emissions of air pollutants, including the aarhus protocol which in 1998 aimed to reduce and control anthropogenic emissions of lead, mercury and cadmium.
i have approved this decision which aims to accept the amendments to that protocol in order to establish a higher level of protection of human health and the environment against transboundary air pollution.
‒ i voted in favour of the parliament's resolution calling on the council to accept, on behalf of the european union, the 1998 amendment to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution protocol on heavy metals.
the aim of the protocol is to reduce and control anthropogenic emissions of heavy metals into the atmosphere, across borders and over long distances.
it requires the parties to reduce their total annual emissions of lead, cadmium and mercury compared with the levels of these emissions in 1990 (or any other year between 1985 and 1995).
the proposed amendment to the protocol aims to establish stricter emission limit values for dust emissions from certain large fixed sources as well as adaptive transitional provisions that will benefit future parties that accede to the protocol as amended between 1 january 2014 and 31 december 2019. this amendment should be transposed, in particular, by means of a directive setting new national emission ceilings for certain air pollutants and providing for an annual national emission inventory covering, inter alia, emissions of lead, cadmium and mercury.
the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution by heavy metals aims to protect the human environment from air pollution.
such pollution may be characterized by the emission of heavy metals such as lead (pb), cadmium (cd) and mercury (hg) into the atmosphere.
the aim of the protocol is therefore to reduce industrial emissions from the combustion and incineration of waste.
but in view of the environmental problems these heavy metals can cause, it is appropriate (as the amendments emphasize) to reduce the mercury content of alkaline batteries and measuring devices and to keep an updated national inventory of pb, cd and hg emissions.
the ratification of the amendments is an essential step towards a high level of protection of human health and the environment against transboundary air pollution.
‒ in europe, air pollution is responsible for almost half a million premature deaths each year: parliament has therefore rightly updated its legislation on long-range transboundary air pollution, which is enshrined in a convention of the same name.
this is particularly important to reduce and control emissions of heavy metals, which are a hazard in case of large or prolonged exposure, which can cause diseases and accelerated ageing.
heavy metals are naturally present in our environment and used industrially, are released into the air as very fine particles and eventually fall back to the ground, contaminating the animals and plants we eat and eventually accumulating in our tissues.
‒ the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution aims to protect the human environment from air pollution.
the problems of air pollution must therefore be tackled at international level.
the convention established the framework for controlling and reducing the damage to human health and the environment caused by transboundary air pollution.
to date, the convention has been extended by eight protocols specifically identifying measures to be taken by the parties to reduce their emissions of air pollutants.
decision 2012/5 still needed to be ratified by the parties, as the amended protocol in particular sets stricter emission limit values for dust emissions from certain large fixed sources as well as flexible transitional provisions that will benefit future parties that will accede to the amended protocol before the end of 2019, including the countries of eastern and south-eastern europe.
the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution aims to protect the human environment from air pollution.
the problems of air pollution must therefore be tackled at international level.
it has established the framework for controlling and reducing the damage to human health and the environment caused by transboundary air pollution.
‒ i voted in favour of amending the 1998 protocol to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution, on heavy metals.
this amendment is important in order to better protect the environment and public health in the event of transboundary air pollution.
‒ the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution was signed in 1979 and entered into force in 1983. it has since been extended by eight protocols specifically identifying measures to be taken by the parties to reduce their emissions of air pollutants, including the 1998 aarhus protocol on persistent organic pollutants.
its objective was to combat the discharges, emissions and leakage of these organic pollutants.
i have approved this decision which aims to accept the amendments to that protocol in order to establish a higher level of protection of human health and the environment against transboundary air pollution.
‒ i voted in favour of the parliament's resolution calling on the council to accept, on behalf of the european union, the amendments to the 1998 protocol to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution on persistent organic pollutants.
adopted in 1981, this convention is the main international legal framework governing cooperation and measures to limit and progressively reduce air pollution and to avoid its harmful effects on human health and the environment in the unece region.
the text of the proposed amendments to the 1998 protocol includes new substances, an update of the proposed regime for certain emissions and the limit values (levs) for dioxins/furans (pcdd/fs) emissions from certain waste incinerators, the establishment of new limit values for pcdd/fs emissions from agglomeration workshops and electric arc furnaces, and the addition of pcbs to the list of substances whose annual emissions must remain below the level of the reference year and be reported.
i support and welcome this news to better protect human health and the environment.
air pollution does not stop at the border.
often, this pollution travels many miles before it hits far away.
it is therefore necessary to address the problems caused by air pollution internationally and across borders.
in 1983 a convention with a legally binding instrument to limit the environmental and health effects of transboundary air pollution entered into force for the first time.
in recent years, a number of protocols have been added to the existing convention to allow a more efficient approach to environmental problems.
i hope that by ratifying these amendments we will take another step towards better protection of air quality and public health against transboundary air pollution.
more specifically, it is an amendment to the geneva convention on long-range transboundary air pollution which strengthens the fight against persistent organic pollutants such as aldrin, chlordane, heptachlore, mirex and toxaphene.
under these barbaric titles are the infamous "pops", dangerous chemical compounds that have in common toxicity, persistence in the environment, long-distance transport and bio-amplification, i.e.
they are found in pesticides, in pcbs added to paints and plastics, and in the combustion of wood and household waste, especially in the form of dioxins.
‒ the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution aims to protect the human environment from air pollution.
the problems of air pollution must therefore be tackled at international level.
to date, the convention has been extended by eight protocols specifically identifying measures to be taken by the parties to reduce their emissions of air pollutants.
the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution aims to protect the human environment from air pollution.
the problems of air pollution must therefore be tackled at international level.
it has established the framework for controlling and reducing the damage to human health and the environment caused by transboundary air pollution.
‒ i voted in favour of the proposed amendments to the 1998 protocol to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution concerning persistent organic pollutants.
the adoption of these amendments will be an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment.
in the current climate of the fight against terrorism, trafficking and organised crime, it is imperative to take account of the transnational nature of these scourges and to strengthen judicial cooperation.
‒ the mid-term report of the biodiversity programme shows that if the eu does not redouble its efforts, it will also miss its 2020 deadline.
the figures speak for themselves: the ecological footprint of the 28 is twice as large as the union's biocapacity.
it also stresses that increased funding and public awareness of, and support for, biodiversity protection are also essential.
however, the mid—term review shows that the union is about to seriously fail in achieving its biodiversity targets if no improvements are made.
this resolution calls for a stepping up of efforts for the protection of biodiversity in the upcoming mid-term review, and for these reasons i support the general aim of this resolution.
‒ i supported the recommendations to achieve the objectives of the eu biodiversity strategy 2010-2020. the eu has the strictest environmental protection legislation in the world.
when properly implemented, this legislation has produced excellent results, but the mid-term review shows that the eu is on the verge of failing to achieve its biodiversity objectives if no improvements are made.
biodiversity losses have increased at an alarming rate: more than three quarters of important natural habitats are in a critical state and a quarter of all species are threatened with extinction.
it is our duty to work to protect our biodiversity in europe for future generations.
i therefore supported the mechanism calling for a redoubled effort to protect our biodiversity.
europe's nature, its ecosystems and its biodiversity are under severe pressure.
a new strategy to halt the loss of biodiversity in europe was launched in 2011. the ambition was to stop the loss and restore as many habitats and ecosystems as possible by 2020. the parliament's report now contains the mid-term evaluation of the eu's biodiversity strategy.
in 2015, the verdict is again harsh: without major efforts, the eu will be out of its league again in 2020 and its rich biodiversity will be much smaller.
so the key to restoring nature and biodiversity is in the same human.
‒ this afternoon, the european parliament adopted by a large majority the recommendations for achieving the objectives of the eu biodiversity strategy 2010-2020. it is no coincidence that biodiversity is in danger almost everywhere in europe.
i am in favour of a drastic increase in efforts to protect our biodiversity by implementing more of the union's ambitious legislation rather than water it down.
as regards shale gas, which was also discussed, i supported the paragraph calling on member states not to authorize new hydraulic fracturing activities in the union under the precautionary principle and the principle requiring preventive action, given the risks and negative impacts on the climate, the environment and biodiversity and the shortcomings observed in the european regulatory framework in this field.
the steady loss of biodiversity is a matter of great concern.
‒ i abstained on this report not because i am against biodiversity, but because this report does not pay the slightest attention to farmers.
although the report calls for all actors to come together to promote biodiversity, i feel that the farmer has been completely left out.
in parallel to these measures, the european union is contributing to the development of safe and sustainable reception capacities in the affected regions and the provision of lasting prospects and adequate procedures for refugees and their families until they can be returned to their country of origin, if possible.
‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on the application of the safeguard clause and the anti-circumvention mechanism allowing for the temporary suspension of the tariff preferences provided for in the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of moldova, of the other part.
it is also clear that the (possible) use of gmos must always be part of an agricultural policy that integrates the protection of human health, the environment and biodiversity, where an integrated pest management system is essential for the sustainable use of pesticides and non-chemical alternatives.
‒ i voted in favour of the objection of the european parliament's committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) against three european commission decisions authorising the marketing of feed containing transgenic soybeans produced by monsanto and bayer.
our objective is to ensure a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests.
with a growing population and increasing threats to the climate, we need modern plant breeding in europe.
among other things, these modern techniques for growing crops and other plants can contribute to a better diet for the world's population and a better climate.
‒ i voted in favour of the objection of the european parliament's committee on the environment against three european commission decisions authorising the marketing of feed containing gm soybeans produced by monsanto and bayer.
our objective is to ensure a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests.
with a growing population and increasing climate threats, we need modern plant breeding in europe.
among other things, these modern techniques for growing crops and other plants can contribute to a better diet for the world's population and a better climate.
‒ i voted in favour of the objection of the european parliament's committee on the environment against three european commission decisions authorising the marketing of feed containing gm soybeans produced by monsanto and bayer.
the iarc assesses generic agents, including related chemical groups, as well as occupational or environmental exposure, and cultural or behavioural practices.
our objective is to ensure a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests.
with a growing population and increasing climate threats, we need modern plant breeding in europe.
among other things, these modern techniques for growing crops and other plants can contribute to a better diet for the world's population and a better climate.
the emissions from cars, especially those of particulate matter and nitrogen, are particularly harmful to public health.
the recent environmental performance index from yale and columbia universities in the united states shows that belgium scores particularly poorly on air pollution.
however, more european action is needed, as the eu's strict legislation to limit harmful emissions has not yet led to much improvement in practice, mainly because of the lack of practical tests to measure real emissions on the road.
millions of consumers have been deceived by false information about the emissions of their vehicles.
the high-tech and sustainable vehicle industry, with many tens of thousands of employees in hundreds of companies, accounts for about 10% of industrial employment in flanders.
our party is not prepared to make this sector a casualty of the left-wing ecological blackmail of the european parliament.
instead of allowing the original 50% exceedance of the applicable limits, deviations of more than twice that amount (a correction factor of 2,1) were agreed until 2020. the majority of the environment committee in the european parliament then considered that correction factor too generous and put this objection to the vote in plenary.
i have agreed to this objection because i am in favour of strict and clear emission standards and appropriate controls to protect consumer health and the environment.
car companies have already had seven years to make the necessary adjustments to comply with regulations regarding emissions.
i personally voted in favour of the objection tabled by the committee on the environment.
a few weeks after the vw scandal, i think this vote is deeply regrettable because it not only allows the car industry to exceed the european anti-pollution standards (euro 6) by 110% until 2019 and by 50% from january 2020, but it also gives a legal basis to this difficult to understand relaxation.
car owners find that manufacturers deliberately flout environmental laws and market cars that pollute far more than they want the customer and the legislator to believe.
i personally supported this objection, as i had done in the vote in the committee on the environment last december.
the objection, raised by the european parliament's committee on the environment, public health and food safety, considered the commission's decision to be illegal, a view which was further confirmed by the european parliament's legal services and then by the parliament's committee on legal affairs.
‒ i voted in favour of the objection concerning emissions from passenger cars and light commercial vehicles.
‒ i very much regret that the european parliament this week approved this relaxation of the rules on car emissions.
i do not want tisa to jeopardise our public services, our culture, our labour laws, our environmental standards, our consumer protection and our data.
the budget deficit has been reduced and progress has been made in the organisation of the labour market, although it must be said that significant efforts remain to improve the investment and business climate in serbia.
the waste management in serbia remains a sensitive issue and therefore it is recommended that serbia clean up the thousands of illegal landfills and effectively implement a sustainable waste policy.
a final guarantee of a stable political climate is only possible if an international coalition fights the growing presence of daesh in libya.
the island regions are groups of islands within the eu that share common characteristics such as permanent nature, cultural diversity, environmental diversity.
the economic, social and environmental gaps should therefore be closed in order to ensure their development, in particular by fully exploiting their high potential for the production of renewable energy.
the project submitted to us will improve economic growth, job creation and sustainable development; the european union is a global economy, with a global economic system.
the principle of subsidiarity is fundamental to help social progress, sustainable development and economic growth.
i would like to see us, with this ftaa, making progress in creating quality jobs and sustainable development for tunisia, making sure that this agreement takes account of the differences in competitiveness between economies, and finally, as you said, madam commissioner, making sure that civil society is involved in this agreement, because it has a lot of information to give us.
the objective of the network, whose portal should be easily accessible to all, should be to contribute to a high rate of quality and sustainable jobs in the union.
‒ i voted in favour of this text and hope that all actors will actively engage with the european semester 2016 in order to achieve a stronger economic recovery and a better resilience of the european social market economy to structural shocks and difficulties, thus proving that european democracy works and is able to ensure sustainable and broadly shared prosperity.
improving the economic climate in europe requires structural changes to make our economy competitive again and to attract investment.
here, too, the emphasis is on a balance between structural reforms, fiscal consolidation and sustainable investment, alongside an analysis of the social and economic impacts.
the agreement should also extend european standards to the environment, consumer protection and workers' rights in tunisia.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the deepening of trade relations between the union, australia and new zealand, but we must be very careful in the course of the negotiations to ensure that the initial aim does not undermine the social, environmental or health protection of european citizens.
in addition, the eu, australia and new zealand are currently engaged in multilateral negotiations to further liberalise trade in environmental goods and trade in services.
i would, however, like to see negotiations conducted in a transparent manner and in compliance with european environmental, health and social standards.
the conclusion of these agreements will maximise the growth potential of the enhanced relations between the union and the asia-pacific region and will allow for increased cooperation on standards without levelling food safety, environmental protection, social protection or worker protection from the bottom up.
the european parliament also called for the interests of smes to be taken into account and for a 'serious and ambitious' chapter on sustainable development to be included, incorporating the core labour standards, the four priority ilo governance conventions and the multilateral environmental agreements.
it's a shame to waste tax money, but it's a living disgrace to cheat with tax money.
the 'master list' of diseases covered by this legislation will be established by a delegated act (and not by implementing measures, as the commission wanted) and there is a commitment to preserve biodiversity and valuable genetic material.
often aware of the issues, the authorities have so far found it difficult to provide a lasting solution to the problem, at a time when the difficult economic environment is making it increasingly difficult for less privileged families to consume fresh fruits and vegetables.
i welcome the sustainability of the report.
by ensuring that children have access to fresh, local produce, the report helps to raise awareness of healthy, varied and balanced diets and to introduce the new generation to sustainable and organic farming.
it is therefore a long-term investment, whether in terms of public health, economic development or the environment.
in order to ensure the effectiveness of the programme, member states will have to provide for accompanying educational measures such as farm visits, distribution of a wider choice of agricultural products, education of children on related topics (healthy eating habits, local food chains, organic farming, sustainable production or combating food waste).
in addition to health aspects, education has a key role to play, with a focus on healthy diets, local food chains, organic farming, sustainable food production and food waste.
‒ parliament adopted a commission proposal aimed at achieving a more efficient, better connected and sustainable trans-european transport network.
the objective of this report, which i have approved, is to contribute to a more efficient, interconnected and sustainable operation of the ten-t by creating a clear framework for market access to airport services.
i voted in favour of the report on market access for port services and financial transparency in ports, because it strikes a good balance and creates a favourable climate for interinstitutional negotiations.
the proposal for a regulation will contribute to a more efficient, interconnected and sustainable operation of the ten-t without opening the door to market abuse.
reporting on waste and misuse of taxpayers' money damages the reputation of the european union and of politics itself.
the three members of the belgian ps elected to this parliament voted against this agreement because they believe that, under the guise of simplifying european legislation, the refit programme seriously threatens many provisions relating to social protection, environmental protection and public health.
yes, we need a political solution in syria, we need a global solution to the flow of migration, we also need a sustainable and functional protection of our external borders.
i have to pay tribute to the turkish government and to the international organizations for the way in which the refugees are being housed: in a humane environment, in a refugee camp where everything is available - supermarkets, schools, even high schools, where there are 3,800 tents for 18,000 inhabitants, but they are properly supervised.
‒ the purpose of this directive is to reduce sulphur dioxide emissions from the combustion of certain types of liquid fuels and thereby to reduce the harmful effects of these emissions on man and the environment.
acidification and the release of sulphur dioxide into the atmosphere cause damage to fragile ecosystems, decrease biodiversity, reduce amenity value and harm crops and forest growth.
sulphur dioxide pollution can also have significant effects on human health, especially among the population suffering from respiratory conditions.
‒ this report regulates the sulphur content of certain liquid fuels to reduce harmful air pollution.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
this is to help economic recovery and job creation in a climate of particularly weak economic recovery, to take on the migrant and refugee crisis that will extend beyond 2016, to contain any terrorist threat and any extremist act, etc.
the primary objective of the reform of own resources is to make the revenue side of the union budget more autonomous, stable, simple, fair, sustainable and predictable, to reduce the burden of excessive expenditure on national budgets and to improve transparency and visibility for citizens, without increasing the overall tax burden on citizens.
the ps also considers that refit, which is included in the agreement, represents a danger and a means of destruction and threat to social protection, environmental protection and public health rules.
‒ the three members of the belgian ps elected to this parliament voted against this agreement because they believe that, under the guise of simplifying european legislation, the refit programme seriously threatens many provisions relating to social protection, environmental protection and public health.
i am particularly sensitive to impact assessments which are an essential step in the european legislative process and which should include not only the economic, environmental and social consequences of the proposed legislation but also, where possible, the impact in terms of competitiveness as well as the administrative burdens, taking into account in particular small businesses, digital aspects and territorial impact.
it was time to renegotiate the 2003 interinstitutional agreement to take account of the new legislative environment created by the lisbon treaty, consolidate existing good practices and update the agreement in line with the better regulation programme.
meanwhile, the political climate and the human rights situation are deteriorating rapidly.
‒ i voted in favour of this report on a proposal for a directive which aims to establish an updated body of legislation, adapted to the specificities of the veterinary sector, while safeguarding public health, animal health, food safety and the environment.
the commission has also chosen to focus on product availability and administrative simplification, without sacrificing the imperatives of public health and environmental protection.
data protection is a prerequisite for the sustainable development of our digital economy.
both countries are committed to cooperating in the fields of education, culture, energy and home affairs.
the fyrom will have to make considerable efforts to tackle air and water pollution.
at the same time, the energy market needs to be aligned with european energy policy, including an ambitious growth path for renewable energy.
in order to guarantee a sustainable political democracy, it will be necessary, in addition to organising transparent elections and organising a genuine parliamentary political culture, to eradicate widespread corruption at all administrative levels.
by opening the important chapters of justice, security, transport and energy, montenegro is the fastest progressing country of all the candidate countries in the balkans.
the energy market is developing slowly and it is also advisable for montenegro to align its energy production with the eu's environmental and energy objectives.
finally, in order to improve the highly polarized political climate, all parties benefit from the full implementation of the new electoral law and free and transparent elections strengthen parliamentary democracy.
‒ deeply concerned about the internal political split and the boycott of parliamentary activities by part of the opposition in montenegro, we called on all political forces on thursday, 10 march, to re-establish a sustainable dialogue and constructive cooperation within the montenegrin parliament.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the price the farmer receives for his meat is not sufficient to cover the rising production costs resulting from higher food and energy prices.
the european parliament's committee on the environment has taken up this issue and some in the scientific community have pointed to the likely health risks of using widely used products containing glyphosate.
i am today advocating that the proposal be reworded to take account of the potential hazard of this substance, while allowing a sustainable transition for farmers and economically and ecologically responsible alternative products.
improving the internal market does not mean abolishing regulation, but creating a competitive regulatory environment that keeps jobs and businesses in europe.
the continuation of this fisheries agreement, which is of particular importance to both parties, will contribute to the strengthening of cooperation in the field of sustainable fisheries.
the union is a key player in the field of fisheries and therefore has a duty to promote, in particular through the fisheries agreements it concludes, the sustainable management of global fisheries resources.
it also promotes a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the greenland fishing zone.
the new protocol is in line with the objectives of the fisheries partnership agreement; enhance cooperation between the union and greenland and promote a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the greenland fishing zone, in the interest of both parties.
‒ i have endorsed this report which welcomes the decision of the united nations general assembly to develop, under the united nations convention on the law of the sea, a legally binding international instrument on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of marine biodiversity in areas beyond the limits of national jurisdiction.
it stressed the importance of making progress in the development of this new instrument and meeting the target of finalising the text by the end of 2017. meps believe that the eu and the international community should act to conserve and sustainably use marine biodiversity by, inter alia, implementing modern and sustainable concepts of marine ecosystem management and ocean governance principles through:• the controlled exploitation of marine resources (whether mineral exploitation, energy drilling, etc.)
and fisheries; • science-based marine governance; • restoring stocks and maintaining them above levels which can produce the maximum sustainable yield; • ecosystem-based management and conservation of marine biodiversity; • the application of existing legislation and the precautionary principle.
i welcome the adoption by the european parliament of this resolution on the fisheries aspects of the future international agreement on marine biodiversity beyond areas of national jurisdiction.
the agreement, which was concluded under the united nations convention on the law of the sea, should be a key instrument for the conservation of marine biodiversity worldwide.
the close link between fishing opportunities and the conservation of marine biodiversity will have to be taken into account.
‒ in 1992, the united nations mentioned the importance of protecting the world's waters in the document entitled 'action 21', which was published at the end of the united nations conference on environment and development held in rio de janeiro, brazil, that year.
the international community thus recognized the need for an international strategy to combat pollution and the growing threats to marine biodiversity.
the johannesburg declaration on sustainable development and the plan of implementation were adopted at the united nations world summit in south africa in september 2002. in 2012, in the document known as rio+20, the international community reaffirmed its determination to tackle environmental problems and the need for sustainable development.
in 2004, a special working group was established by united nations general assembly resolution 59/24, paragraph 73. in january 2015, the working group submitted its report, highlighting the need for a comprehensive system at the global level and recommending the development of a legally binding international instrument on the conservation and sustainable use of marine biodiversity in areas beyond national jurisdiction.
europe’s genetic biodiversity is indispensable to a healthy europe and therefore needs to be protected.
as the biodiversity of one member state affects that of the other, this can only be achieved through harmonised eu-wide legislation.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission should therefore carry out the sustainable development impact assessments before the opening of negotiations on trade agreements as part of an ex ante impact assessment exercise to analyse the economic, social and environmental impacts on union citizens and businesses, and in particular on smes.
on the one hand, i would like to emphasize the quality of this report, which makes it clear on several occasions that simplification of european legislation cannot undermine environmental, health and social standards and must respect the implementation of agreements between the social partners.
on the other hand, we still regard the refit programme as a potential danger to the health of workers and the protection of the environment, which is why i abstained.
‒ i voted against this report, which in my view favours too much of a liberal view of the functioning of the single market, without paying sufficient attention to the social, human and environmental dimensions of the european project.
this resolution stresses the importance of delivering a competitive regulatory environment in order to ensure the competitiveness of the eu.
we stressed the need for european regulation in the pursuit of sustainable development and consumer protection.
we stressed that only unjustified barriers to trade should disappear and called for a multidimensional approach to policy outcomes that takes into account social and environmental aspects.
for the eu, such an environment means that it is ever more important to adapt ourselves to this changing environment.
this resolution calls for this to be done, by for example taking the 2030 agenda for sustainable development into account.
in order to do so, the eu needs to be a strong actor in an environment of multilateral global governance.
the coastal fisheries are of crucial importance for their social, economic and environmental benefits and should be preserved as far as possible.
in terms of diversification, sustainable tourism has the potential to play a particularly beneficial role for coastal communities.
marine and underwater tourism can combine awareness of the environment and biodiversity with the economic development of regions dependent on coastal fishing.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because coastal fishing in the european union is important in more than one way: not only is it a sector that provides jobs in coastal areas, but it is also socially and ecologically sustainable.
the climate crisis is the best example of this, and we need to move forward to live in a greener world.
another is sustainable management of fisheries resources.
i voted in favour of this report because it will ensure coherence between fisheries policy, environmental policy, trade policy and development cooperation, while at the same time strengthening the social and environmental standards of the european union in its internal and external fisheries policy.
the external fisheries policy of the union, whether in the framework of bilateral agreements or within the rfmos, will be of paramount importance for the conservation of global fisheries resources and hence for the sustainability of fishing opportunities.
the union must therefore use all its influence and intensify its efforts to persuade them to apply to their fleet the principles which guide the union's policy in this area, including sustainability and the precautionary principle.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it will promote the sustainability of the european fisheries sector.
i have more and more the impression and the feeling, mr tusk, that, while putin uses energy as a weapon, erdoǧan uses poor refugees as a political weapon.
the main need for sustainable economic growth is therefore structural reforms.
the main need for sustainable economic growth is therefore structural reforms.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
this is the only way to achieve a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment in the future.
more research and more transparency are needed to remove the many uncertainties in this area in the interests of public health and the environment.
personally, i am in favour of the commission's original proposal because the proposed deadline provides scope for continuing to innovate in plant protection in a sustainable and economically responsible way.
the european parliament's committee on the environment and public health had taken up the matter and a section of the scientific community had highlighted the likely health risks of the use of widely used products containing glyphosate.
it is now up to the commission and then the states to take account of the reservations expressed and i will continue to advocate a reformulation of the proposal which takes into account the potential hazardousness of this substance, while allowing a sustainable transition for farmers and economically and ecologically responsible alternative products.
‒ this report, entitled 'the european union in a changing global environment - a more connected, contested and complex world', is the european parliament's contribution to the new overall eu security strategy that the vice-president/high representative was tasked by the european council to develop last summer.
the union should therefore ensure its internal and external resilience, its ability to anticipate, prevent and respond to foreseeable challenges and threats (by being ready to take swift action in the face of unforeseeable challenges and threats) and its ability to recover from different types of attacks, while preserving its security of energy and raw materials supply and taking into account, in doing so, the effects of climate change, which require urgent action, given the union's leading role in the global fight against climate change and in supporting sustainable development.
the resolution reiterates what the eu envisages in central asia, which is peace, prosperity, democracy and environmental sustainability.
thus economic integration, trade and sustainable development are key.
in an increasingly interconnected world, central asia is a region of growing strategic importance for the eu because of its geographical location at the crossroads between europe, asia and the middle east and its significant energy resources.
the text adopted emphasises the importance of regional cooperation in achieving long-term sustainable results.
finally, we take note of your recommendation to submit a communication on energy poverty.
as announced in the communication setting out a new deal for energy consumers, the commission is exploring how to improve european union-wide data collection and monitoring of energy poverty.
furthermore, with the review of the energy efficiency directive and the energy performance of buildings directive, the commission intends to focus on customer protection, following up the analysis of the member states’ implementation of their national action plans for the protection of vulnerable energy consumers.
this is the case for energy and housing, but also for food, water, health care and public services.
there is no prosperity, but poverty, pollution, corruption, conflict and violence, the terror of boko haram, widespread human rights violations.
in essence, clear, cohesive, uniform and transparent legislation was needed in order to create a pleasant and efficient business environment.
if europe is to become a world leader in research and innovation, it needs an environment conducive to innovation.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
it also strongly supports a structured, more frequent and more open high-level political dialogue on key issues of common interest, such as migration, the fight against terrorism, energy, the economy and trade.
we strongly support a structured, more frequent and more open high-level political dialogue on key issues of common interest, such as migration, the fight against terrorism, energy, the economy and trade.
i encourage albania to also take environmental protection into account and call on it to consider the consequences of the deployment of hydroelectric power stations and to consult the populations potentially affected.
in order to initiate political and democratic stabilisation in accordance with the european model, it is necessary that bih continue its development in accordance with the reforms recommended by the union; the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the development of the environment and the protection of the environment.
‒ i have of course supported this resolution which calls on the commission and the member states to invest fully in the fight against poverty and social exclusion and to adopt an integrated approach to tackle the various forms of poverty through a comprehensive approach combining economic policies, education policies, employment policies, energy policies, transport policies and social policies on the basis of best practice.
in addition, i completely agree that renewable energy should play a more prominent role in our lives.
this requires large sums of investment that can only be attracted by creating an investor-friendly environment in a free market economy.
europe has set itself ambitious energy targets.
to meet international environmental commitments while reducing its dependence on energy supplies from neighbouring countries, the eu is seeking to increase the use of renewable energy sources, optimise energy efficiency and reduce greenhouse gases.
and that is why we must build bridges between the eu's energy policy and its social policy.
however, to reduce the risk of energy poverty, support for structural measures such as energy efficiency in housing is needed.
equal access to energy and the benefits of energy efficiency, and thus reducing energy poverty, will also make it easier for the eu and its member states to meet ambitious energy and climate targets.
it must be a priority for ethical and humanitarian reasons, but also because poverty is a real economic waste.
this is the case for energy or housing, but also for food, healthcare or public services.
the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to provide for the possibility of a reduction in the amount of energy consumption in the form of a reduction in the amount of energy used in the production of electricity.
‒ i voted in favour of the text which calls on the commission and the member states to invest fully in the fight against poverty and social exclusion and to adopt an integrated approach to tackle its various forms through a comprehensive approach combining economic policies, education policies, employment policies, energy policies, transport policies and social policies on the basis of best practice.
however, in order to reduce the risk of energy poverty, support for structural measures such as energy efficiency in housing is necessary.
this is the way to build a bridge between the energy policy and the social policy of the european union.
‒ i voted in favour of this report which underlines that private sector investment in development can contribute to the achievement of the un sustainable development goals.
but the report also argues that this should be achieved by private sector commitments to good governance, poverty reduction and wealth creation through sustainable investment, reduction of inequalities, and action to promote human rights, environmental standards and the empowerment of local economies.
the private sector also plays a key role as an investor in sustainable agricultural production (and thus attempting to meet the challenge of feeding 9 billion people by 2050...).
the report also calls for greater public-private partnership and the creation of an attractive investment climate in developing countries.
demand for food, water and energy is expected to increase by 50%, 40% and 30% respectively by 2030. it's time to act.
there is also a very explicit request from parliament and the committee on budgetary control to the eib to prevent more effectively transactions with financial intermediaries who have a negative score in terms of transparency, fraud, corruption, organised crime, money laundering and activities which have harmful social and environmental consequences.
today we absolutely need a stronger european investment climate.
unfortunately, the sector still has some shortcomings in terms of competition, discrimination and the absence of a liberalized, dynamic and business-friendly environment.
it is also clear that we are moving towards sustainable development, since the railway is more environmentally friendly than the road.
it allows for a genuine dialogue between donors and recipient countries, thereby making significant progress in human rights, educational, social and environmental policies.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the directive also calls for the use of renewable energy sources to be regulated by the eu and the member states.
‒ i supported the report adopted by the budgetary control committee which calls on the european parliament to grant discharge to the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the 2014 budget.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
i voted in favour of the decision granting the director of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. the final budget of the agency for the financial year 2014 was eur 10 880 000, representing an increase of 8,80% compared to 2013. i would stress that the entire budget of the agency is drawn from the union budget; i deeply regret that no agreement could be reached on the contributions of the european free trade association member states to the agency's budget, given that the third energy package has yet to be integrated into the agreement on the european economic area; i would remind you that the headquarters agreement concluded four years ago provides for the creation of a european school.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
‒ i approved the report of the committee on budgetary control which called for the discharge to be given to the european environment agency for the implementation of the 2014 budget.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment-related aspects of the environment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
i also welcome the work of the agency for its efforts in the campaign for healthy and sustainable workplaces to strengthen risk prevention.
i have decided to support the decision to postpone the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. the artemis joint undertaking was established in december 2007 for a period of 10 years to establish and implement a research programme for the development of key technologies for information systems in order to enhance the union's competitiveness and sustainable development and to enable the emergence of new markets and societal applications.
it takes the form of a first-of-its-kind public-private partnership between the commission and the private sector, which is intended to enable the eu to invent the technologies of tomorrow to increase the environmental performance of air transport and thus reduce noise pollution and energy consumption, and bring the union closer to the environmental objectives of the single european sky project.
it encourages the development of electricity generators that efficiently convert chemical energy into electrical energy by a reaction between the fuel (hydrogen in most cases) and oxygen in the air.
the stakes are high: hydrogen could reduce the total oil consumption of road transport by 40% by 2050 and thus bring the union closer to its environmental objectives.
‒ yesterday, the european parliament decided to postpone its decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the 2014 budget for three joint undertakings, including iter (development of fusion energy).
thanks to sesar, the environmental impact per flight is being reduced by 2.8%, the risk of accidents by 40% and the capacity of the european sky increased by 27%.
other aspects need to be considered, such as improving environmental sustainability and action to combat climate change.
these projects must therefore comply with specific environmental standards.
as the report points out, the eib's priorities should include recovery, productivity growth, employment, innovation and sustainable development.
i believe that this institution of the european union is of major importance because it contributes to the achievement of the union's policy objectives by supporting sound and sustainable investment projects.
the report stresses in particular the importance of prioritising investments that accelerate recovery and increase productivity, of encouraging youth employment, innovation and smes, of improving environmental sustainability and action to combat climate change, of promoting economic and social cohesion and convergence, etc.
gas will be an important fuel in the energy transition towards greener and more sustainable energy sources.
gas is less polluting than, say, coal or lignite and it is also complementary to renewable energy to help offset the downturns.
however, this should not be an excuse for some large energy players to abuse their market position.
it is also very important that the energy union continues to look for alternative sources of different origins.
in addition, member states should also be encouraged to diversify their energy suppliers.
the resolution also calls on the commission to take due account of the concerns expressed by the industrial sector, trade unions and other stakeholders in the union regarding the impact on employment, the environment, standards and sustainable economic growth in the union.
this sustainable fisheries partnership agreement, which i have approved, is the first agreement to be signed between the european union and the republic of liberia, which has 570 km of coastline along the atlantic ocean.
it will help to increase the fight against illegal fishing and to disseminate the cfp objective of sustainable management of fisheries and aquaculture activities.
finally, the commission stresses the sustainability of fisheries, which will not endanger liberia's fish stocks and will provide long-term income for the country.
i welcome the european parliament's approval of the conclusion of the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement with liberia.
in the fisheries sector, liberia is pursuing the objectives of sustainability and responsible management of resources, as is the union.
‒ the european parliament yesterday approved the conclusion of the first sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of liberia.
since 2014, with the reform of the common fisheries policy, these agreements have been called 'sustainable fisheries partnership agreements'.
this sustainable fisheries partnership agreement is the first to be signed between the european union and the republic of liberia.
it is regrettable, however, that the european parliament has only a limited role in the adoption of the sustainable fisheries partnership agreements, reduced to a simple approval procedure.
in return, the union will provide a financial contribution to promote sustainable fisheries management on the mauritanian coast.
a policy of sustainable growth in the maritime sector.
i would like to stress that the quotas have been reduced compared with the previous agreement in order to protect the environment.
i am particularly pleased that the union is increasing its support for the sustainable development of fisheries in mauritania through sectoral support.
it is essential to develop the exploitation of this natural resource, which is so rich in the country, in a sustainable way.
it is essential that the union continue to promote the principles of sustainability and responsible resource management that it applies internally with mauritania and its other partners.
the other part of the compensation to promote the sustainable development of the fisheries sector and the protection of maritime areas is increased from eur 3 million to just over eur 4 million per year.
this is supplemented by financial assistance of eur 16.5 million over the entire duration of the agreement to promote the sustainable development of the fisheries sector and the protection of the environment in marine protected areas and coastal areas.
‒ it is regrettable that the european parliament has only a limited role in the adoption of partnership agreements in the field of sustainable fisheries, reduced to a simple approval procedure.
following the recommendations of the committee on industry, research and energy, i thought it appropriate to support it, since the republic of korea is an active user of satellite navigation services and has capabilities in the field of space technology and applications.
‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation, on the basis of the draft cooperation agreement on a global satellite navigation system for civil use between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of korea, of the other part, and in the light of the recommendation of the committee on industry, research and energy, which gives its approval to the conclusion of the agreement and instructs the president to forward parliament's position to the council and the commission, as well as to the governments and parliaments of the member states and the republic of korea.
it can be used to achieve the sustainable development goal in urban environments.
tackling youth unemployment and caring for an ageing population are current challenges where the knowledge of local actors can make a significant contribution to achieving sustainable local employment and social cohesion.
local development led by local actors (lda), which aims to strengthen synergies between local actors, both public and private, and integrated territorial investment (iti), which allows for the pooling of funds from several priority areas to achieve sustainable development objectives, are the two new tools for territorial cohesion.
the european council welcomes the commission's proposal to establish a european union-wide network of information centres for the protection of the environment.
yet these regions represent a significant part of the territory of the european union (about 30%), and the whole of the union depends on their ecosystem services.
in recent years, the understanding of the strengths and challenges of these mountain areas has increased to the extent that their potential contribution to the achievement of european objectives in the fields of energy, climate control and employment must be translated into policy.
these unexplored areas, with their high biodiversity, natural resources and abundance of renewable energy sources, deserve their place in the european approach to climate change and the development of green jobs.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is properly implemented.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
however, of the €351.8 billion allocated to cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020, or almost one third of the total eu budget, a small part can still be made available to mountain regions to meet their specific needs: climate change, seasonal employment, tourism development and environmental protection.
for the ecr group war, environmental disasters and food insecurity have been and continue to be causes of much suffering and death and sorrow.
in paris, where we talked about climate, and it was very much tied to the 2030 goals and the sdgs, we made a commitment to keep the temperature rise below 2 degrees.
the second example, perhaps a little unexpected, concerns biodiversity.
three sdgs are about biodiversity and the commission started a 'fitness check' of the habitats directive and the birds directive 15 months ago.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank you, mrs mogherini, for your commitment to the middle east and the energy you put into it, particularly in the context of the israeli-palestinian conflict.
at the same time, we must not be naive, because if we look at the environment, if we look at europe, we also see very high youth unemployment.
the term 'commodity trader' covers a wide range of energy and commodity market participants: for some, comparable to investment firms in terms of functions and risks, the trading of commodity derivatives contracts is the only activity; for others, it is only a side activity of the production of raw materials.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
this is one more reason to stress the need for the european union to return to the path of strong, sustainable and inclusive growth.
the first is employment, the creation of sustainable and decent jobs, sustainable jobs.
taking leave parental leave often means quitting your job when you return to the work environment.
the government is creating a climate of fear and oppression.
in view of the concerns of eu businesses and trade unions about the negative consequences of such a mws for eu jobs, the environment and sustainable economic growth, this resolution is to be welcomed.
the resolution also calls on the commission to take due account of the concerns expressed by the industrial sector, trade unions and other stakeholders in the union regarding the impact on employment, the environment, standards and sustainable economic growth in the union.
state subsidisation, china's excess production capacity and the resulting low-priced exports are already having very strong and very negative social, economic and environmental consequences in the eu.
‒ i have endorsed this resolution which calls on the foreign affairs council in its development configuration to adopt, before the united nations high-level political forum on sustainable development in july, a common and coherent eu position, taking into account the position of the european parliament as expressed in this resolution.
it is crucial that the union presents a common position when we know that the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals constitute a new international commitment to eradicate poverty, redefine and modernise our development strategies for the next 15 years and deliver results.
the challenges we face call for the development of a comprehensive sustainable development strategy within the european union to translate the 17 sustainable development goals into action.
i also supported an amendment expressing particular concern about the negative impact on the objectives of sustainable development of future trade agreements such as ttip, the comprehensive economic and trade agreement (ceta) and the agreement on trade in services (tac).
the amendment therefore called on the european commission to ensure that all trade policies are in line with human rights and the sustainable development goals.
we are hereby asking the commission to submit a proposal for the elaboration of a comprehensive sustainable development strategy covering all relevant areas of internal and external policies, with a detailed timetable up to 2030, a mid-term review and a specific procedure ensuring full involvement of parliament, and a concrete implementation plan to coordinate the achievement of the 17 objectives, 169 targets and 230 global indicators.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the 2030 agenda for sustainable development seeks to build on the millennium development goals that we have not achieved in the past.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment-related aspects of the environment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of pollution by gases from nuclear power stations is a very good one.
we talked about energy poverty.
finally, we are asking - and this is in connection with the report which was discussed just before - for social tariffs for basic necessities, such as access to energy and water, which will actually prevent us from falling into this poverty trap.
it was necessary to continue to guarantee a high level of consumer protection, equal treatment and the creation of sustainable jobs.
‒ i have approved this report on the commission communication entitled 'a new deal for energy consumers'.
the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's energy sector is not left behind.
in this context, the provision of stable, affordable, efficient and sustainable energy to citizens, as well as energy-efficient products, services and quality buildings, should be a priority.
the energy union must also help to eradicate energy poverty, protect consumers from abusive or unfair practices and promote energy-saving measures.
the energy market in europe is in full swing.
in order to achieve our energy and climate objectives, we will eventually have to evolve towards an economy based entirely on the use of clean and renewable energy.
the report calls for the consumer to be given a privileged role in the energy market.
the energy market in europe has been liberalised, but now the main task is to create a transparent and competitive retail market tailored to the consumer.
the right of customers to have access to their energy consumption and the rates charged to them on the invoice even more quickly and clearly - not just once a year at the final invoice.
it is also a good thing to give consumers who produce their own renewable energy at home better access to the energy market.
because the more producers supply energy, the more competition there is and the more interesting the bill becomes for the end user.
‒ in its recommendations on the 'new deal' for consumers in the energy market, the european parliament advocated a set of measures to strengthen consumers' market power in energy production and energy tariffs.
to help consumers to play a more active role in the energy market, we have proposed introducing new management models such as collective purchasing systems and innovative financial instruments to stimulate increased use of self-production, self-consumption and energy-efficient tools.
to ensure transparency in energy prices, we have called for more simplified invoices in terms of understanding contracts, measures to help consumers compare offers, information on the most appropriate and advantageous tariffs based on their consumption history, etc.
finally, we called for a common definition of energy poverty, based on the idea that access to affordable energy is a fundamental social right, and asked the commission to prepare an action plan by 2017 to tackle energy poverty.
the ultimate goal should be an economy based entirely on renewable energy, which can only be achieved by reducing our energy consumption, making full use of the 'energy efficiency first' principle (the 'first fuel') and prioritising energy savings and demand-side measures over supply-side measures, in order to achieve our climate objectives in line with the paris agreement scenario (1.5 °c), as well as energy security, competitiveness and, in particular, lower energy bills.
the consumer will be at the centre of the energy network in the energy union.
the market incentives will ensure that consumers can use energy more efficiently and that the right price is paid without market distortions.
however, a market also entails certain risks for consumers who do not have the capacity to take account of this amount of information or for certain consumers who cannot pay the energy bill.
this report remains relatively balanced and provides a good basis for legislative work in the context of the energy union.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution to give consumers more power when it comes to energy purchases.
these include price comparison methods and better information on energy efficiency, more eu funds to promote energy efficiency, self-generation of energy and other measures that can reduce the energy bill for vulnerable households and citizens.
in an age of high-technology available to all of us, citizens must be able to generate their own renewable energy and, above all, become more energy efficient.
they must be able to become 'micro' energy producers themselves, which can only benefit the free market: that's what we mean by prosumers.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the vat directive to include the taxation of energy products.
‒ this report, which i approved, recalls that the single market can be deepened with the aim of gains in sustainable growth, job creation, research and the environment.
simplification of legislation, but at the same time ensuring high standards of consumer, employee, health and environmental protection.
in a short time, the juncker commission has already rolled out important and ambitious initiatives such as the investment plan for europe, the energy union, the digital single market strategy and the capital markets union.
the internal market is in the interests of consumers, workers and businesses, in particular start-ups, of more sustainable employment and of the growth and development of smes.
many species are going extinct one after the other and so i think it is important that our parliament does not lose sight of the issue of biodiversity.
in the context of climate change, the increased demand for food resulting from population growth and threats to the environment, it is clear that innovation in agricultural technologies is essential to meet these challenges, i am fully aware of this.
the report does not even mention the fight against waste, the problem of obesity or overeating that is affecting more and more people.
and i can agree with him 100 per cent on what he said then, namely that in the current economic climate, and i quote, "it is important that we give priority to investments that speed up recovery, that increase productivity and that promote reality".
‒ in order to maintain its important position in the automotive sector, the union must participate in regulatory cooperation at global level, which must contribute to the establishment of a transparent and competitive economic environment, while ensuring the highest levels of health and safety protection.
in this respect, the establishment of a transparent and competitive economic environment can be an asset.
these agreements also help to ensure respect for human and social rights and promote environmental protection and regional integration in latin america.
‒ under the guise of sustainable development, additional taxes are suggested, a common asylum and migration policy is proposed, and a proactive role for the eu and an infringement of the sovereignty of the member states and the third countries concerned are organised.
in this respect, it regrets the lack of progress in implementing the principles of the cpd and calls for a debate on this issue in the context of sustainable development by 2030. the report also calls on the commission to systematically consult human rights organisations at an early stage of the development decision-making process and calls for more institutional coordination between the eu institutions and the member states.
the 2015 report is an important element of the union's contribution to greater policy coherence for sustainable development.
there is a need to stimulate the debate on the future of policy coherence at union level, in particular in the context of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development adopted by the united nations last september.
in order to provide the most effective assistance to these people, it is important to ensure policy coherence for development (pdc), particularly in the design and implementation of the new sustainable development programme.
the report also provided the european parliament with an opportunity to identify areas it considers to be priorities, namely immigration, trade and finance, food security, climate change and security.
– i support this pcd (policy coherence for development) report because i believe that policy coherence is necessary to achieve sustainable development.
this is important if we want to implement the 2030 agenda for sustainable development correctly.
however, it should be taken into account that at least 14% of total greenhouse gas emissions per year are attributable to agriculture.
i therefore support parliament's call for nafsn to limit the use of artificial fertilisers and pesticides to the greatest extent possible, given their environmental and health consequences.
finally, however, the human rights of workers in africa must be respected alongside the environment and health.
the nasfn also poses environmental risks (erosion problems, loss of biodiversity, decline in the diversity of seed supply) through its encouragement of large-scale monocultures, which in turn undermine food security.
just so we 're clear , introducing new gmos into the environment poses serious problems for farmers who want to grow gm-free, as these organisms spread freely and uncontrolled in nature.
this is to say that we will continue to protect our fellow citizens and above all that we will do everything to avoid creating a climate of uncertainty in our european market.
– i strongly endorse this report because i believe that the eu is an environment in which all enterprises should be able to thrive.
to counteract these unfavourable developments, sustainable food production and healthy diets must be ensured.
the former in particular is becoming increasingly difficult for farmers to implement, as the declining availability of arable land, environmental loss and damage, water scarcity, the increasing demand for energy and the emergence of new pests and diseases are putting considerable pressure on our natural environment.
this is why scientists and farmers should work together to find innovative technical solutions that can increase productivity and sustainability.
while technological change is important in addressing challenges such as the growing need for food, the text is not acceptable as it puts forward a pro-industrial, dehumanized, pro-pesticide and pro-gmo vision to increase food production, and the report does not even mention the fight against waste.
this demand is compounded by the many yield losses caused by climate change, which require adaptation of existing production models.
it is therefore important to support the development of sustainable operating models by emphasising the urgent need for technological innovation.
the development of emerging technologies within the union should therefore be encouraged in order to ensure the sustainability and competitiveness of european agricultural production on a global scale.
it is an economic issue, but also an imperative for environmental performance in a world increasingly vulnerable to the symptoms of global warming: unusual heat, water shortages, the emergence of new pests.
‒ in voting on this report, the european parliament considered that innovation could contribute to sustainable agriculture in the union and that precision farming technologies are particularly important.
the fact that the text touches on so many environmental issues and has not even been before the environment committee is bad faith and is actually unacceptable.
the report highlights the need to combat food waste: 100 million tonnes of food are consumed in europe every year.
the report has been improved by the socialists, and we now have concepts such as the reference to small family farms, animal welfare, the fight against food waste, the role of agroforestry systems, all of which were absent from the draft report.
it will enable us to obtain our environmental goals, while at the same time maintaining our productivity and competitiveness.
‒ i support the call for efficient and innovative agriculture, the prevention of food waste and the more efficient use of resources, but this report overstates the inevitability of ever more productive and industrial agriculture, with a doubling of agricultural productivity by 2030, which seems unrealistic to me.
to counteract these unfavourable developments, sustainable food production and healthy diets must be ensured.
the former in particular is becoming increasingly difficult for farmers to implement, as the declining availability of arable land, environmental loss and damage, water scarcity, the increasing demand for energy and the emergence of new pests and diseases are putting considerable pressure on our natural environment.
the promotion of the use of new management systems, real-time data monitoring, sensor technology and the use of detection systems to optimise production systems must be pursued in order to enable sustainable agriculture.
soil everywhere is losing its inherent fertility due to degradation, and in particular soil erosion due to climate change.
it is therefore essential to modify and modernise agricultural techniques in an innovative and sustainable way in order to meet the increased demand for food products.
to do this, more investment is needed to implement plant protection management systems using sustainable solutions and more environmentally friendly pesticides.
the objective of a sustainable agricultural system can only be achieved if natural resources are used responsibly with the help of new innovative technological means to maximise the yield of land.
the report also calls for the commission to take action to ensure that the eu's environmental policy is not distorted by the use of pesticides and other harmful substances.
the text of the adopted report also calls for the continuous development of innovative plant breeding techniques, 'while maintaining the european union's seed banks, as this is a crucial element in ensuring the effective development of new varieties with higher yields, higher nutritional value and better resistance to pests, diseases and adverse weather conditions, and in ensuring greater biodiversity'.
the rapporteur would like to promote climate smart agriculture.
that's an interesting point to think about, but agroecology is also climate smart and doesn't use new genetic engineering.
many aspects of this report are environmental issues that would not have made it through the environment committee because they go against the mainstream.
perhaps that is why the report was not discussed by the committee on the environment?
at the same time it will help to achieve this goal in a sustainable manner.
the efsi can have a very positive impact on our economy, on the investment climate.
focused both on countries suffering from a lack of investment and a lack of investment capacity - it is still incredible that we finance countries like germany, which has all the investment capacity in the world - but also thematically focused on the great project of european added value, i mean the energy transition.
energy is at the heart of the economy, and the energy transition, energy independence, is a strategic, economic and ecological imperative for the union.
this is a good thing, because the countries on the periphery are those which need the most investment, but also those which offer the greatest potential for renewable energy.
in flanders we have had enough experience with the green energy craze and the mountain of debt that it causes.
it's about the energy transition, the circular economy, the low-carbon economy.
we want more investment in sustainable economy and we also want much more investment in small projects.
the country is expected to receive eur 1,6 million from the 11th edf (2014-2020), focusing on renewable energy and civil society.
the convention was amended by a 2010 protocol, which incorporates protection against environmental damage.
it is in the interest of the european union to have a uniform system of liability for environmental damage caused by the transport of harmful and potentially dangerous substances by sea.
with this report we have the opportunity to achieve a uniform system of liability in the most efficient and fair way possible, without altering the uniformity, integrity and effectiveness of the common rules of union law, and without creating excessive disparities for the victims of pollution (e.g.
the opening of a dialogue with the council and the commission with a view to building a coherent european policy on liability and compensation for environmental damage resulting from the transport of harmful and potentially dangerous substances at sea is a step in the right direction.
the convention was amended by a 2010 protocol, which incorporates protection against environmental damage.
it extends bilateral cooperation in the fields of trade, energy, transport, the environment, migration and the fight against corruption.
it is therefore necessary to continue our financial support and development assistance, in particular to fight poverty and build capacity in the country while helping it to combat climate change.
sectoral cooperation objectives aimed at strengthening political and economic cooperation in areas such as energy, environment, taxation, migration, but also money laundering, terrorist financing, illicit drugs, organised crime and corruption, are essential in a globalised world.
it extends bilateral cooperation in particular in the fields of trade and investment, energy, transport, the environment, migration, the fight against proliferation, terrorism and corruption.
it is therefore necessary to continue our financial support and development assistance, in particular to fight poverty and build capacity in the country while helping it to combat climate change.
it will also help to promote social inclusion, ensure respect for human rights and the rule of law, promote peace, security and judicial reform, provide support for the country's disaster preparedness, relief and recovery, and implement effective climate change policies.
beyond this agreement, i call on the union to continue to provide financial support and development assistance to the philippines to fight poverty and build capacity in the country while helping it to combat climate change.
i believe that the european union should continue to provide financial support and capacity building assistance to the philippines to fight poverty, promote social inclusion, ensure respect for human rights and the rule of law, promote peace, reconciliation, security and judicial reform, provide support for the country's preparedness, disaster relief and recovery, and implement effective climate change policies.
‒ the european parliament is ready to continue helping tunisia overcome its economic difficulties and return to a more sustainable growth path by voting this afternoon in favour of additional macro-financial assistance of eur 500 million.
the aim is to help certain sectors, such as olive oil production, to facilitate reforms to restore the balance of payments and the budgetary situation and to improve the investment climate.
in short, parliament wants to help tunisia create the conditions for sustainable economic growth, which benefits everyone and creates jobs.
the climate of impunity which had surrounded the cia has now ended and the european parliament continues to express its dissatisfaction with the torture methods used by the cia.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
‒ i have endorsed this report which underlines the importance of the role of space capabilities and services in the implementation of the common security and defence policy and other eu policies such as internal security, transport, environment, climate, humanitarian aid, disaster management, etc.
i am convinced that current and future space capabilities and services will provide member states and the union with an enhanced dual-use operational capability for the implementation of the common security and defence policy and other european union policies in areas such as external action, border management, maritime security, agriculture, environment, climate action, energy security, disaster management, humanitarian aid and transport.
‒ like the majority of the parliament, i am deeply concerned about the serious deterioration of the situation with regard to democracy, human rights and the socio-economic context in venezuela, where the political and social climate is increasingly unstable.
given the evidence that these substances are harmful to people and the environment and also have serious social consequences, a strong call for the commission to comply with its legal obligations is both right and important.
these abnormalities and diseases are associated with chemical substances found in a wide range of products for daily use or which have been released into the environment as a by-product of human activity.
the environment, public health and the economic sectors concerned all benefit from the avoidance of the use of such substances.
the resolution also calls on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european union's environmental policy is properly implemented.
it is also clear that the (possible) use of gmos must always be part of an agricultural policy that integrates the protection of human health, the environment and biodiversity, whereby integrated pest management is essential for the sustainable use of pesticides and non-chemical alternatives.
of course, it is important to enable our farmers to find a sustainable economic alternative, just as it is necessary to put an end to the use of this product.
finally, i will continue to highlight the benefits of local farming and promoting short-term supply of fresh produce that is beneficial to our health and respects the environment.
it has concluded that this is the case for the gm’s impact on human health, animal health and the environment.
‒ i supported this resolution, which calls on the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of a genetically modified carnation because it does not meet the health and environmental objectives of directive 2001/18/ec.
it is also clear that the (possible) use of gmos must always be part of an agricultural policy that integrates the protection of human health, the environment and biodiversity, whereby integrated pest management is essential for the sustainable use of pesticides and non-chemical alternatives.
there is no scientific basis for the claim that genetically modified carnations can have any harmful effects on human health or the environment.
i support this objection mainly for health and environmental reasons.
‒ no, the draft commission implementing decision does not meet the objectives of health and environmental protection laid down in directive 2001/18/ec and therefore goes beyond the implementing powers provided for in that directive.
– i voted against this resolution because it states the ‘the draft commission implementing decision does not fulfil the objective of health and environment protection provided for in directive 2001/18/ec and therefore exceeds the implementing powers provided for in this directive;’ by voting in favour of this resolution, i would give an instrument to block the approval of gm crops, and therefore innovation, in the future.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
what is the point of supporting research and development, supporting investment and also deciding on social and environmental standards - which we of course support - if, at the same time, the european union does not have effective tools to protect this european industry?
mr president, protests are continuing in vietnam following the environmental scandal which really set fire to the powder in april.
the european parliament has called for the implementation of the new law on the protection of the environment.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis.
the report on energy efficiency and the report on renewable energy.
first of all, it's important that we try to do it with less energy.
almost half of our energy goes to heating and cooling.
but all too often, this energy is lost, literally, through windows and doors.
by focusing on energy efficiency first, we also ensure that citizens themselves can reap the benefits of the investments they make in the environment.
as far as renewable energy is concerned, we as a parliament should not set targets which are unattainable.
the binding national renewable energy targets proposed by the rapporteur are not.
it is clear that some member states will have to look beyond their own borders to achieve their renewable energy targets.
mr. salini, the good news is actually that solar energy is now fully viable on its own.
commissioner, we met in paris, and it is important that in all the decisions we take in the future on energy efficiency, on renewable energy, non-ets - those debates are coming up very quickly - we do one thing and that is to implement the paris objectives fully.
the whole debate about enforceable energy efficiency standards is becoming very important.
with the paris climate agreement, we have all put the decarbonisation of our economies on track.
energy efficiency is one of the pillars of that ambition.
it makes europe more competitive, less dependent on energy imports, creates jobs and protects the environment.
insulating and lighting efficiently creates jobs and helps us pay less for energy.
so we need to encourage investment in insulation and energy efficiency massively.
the public authorities should fully encourage this trend through fiscal measures, wider access to renovation loans and the deployment of energy-efficient services.
by being ambitious on renewable energy and energy efficiency, we can give european industry more breathing space to meet the co2 reduction targets.
we're saving the most efficient companies in the eu from additional climate costs and giving them the space to fully invest in clean technology.
the development of renewable energies requires a new approach that would make them the cornerstone of the european union's energy model.
our fundamental responsibility is to fight climate change, a historic task that we must do.
we must also reduce our dependence on energy resources from the rest of the world if we are to structure our production model, create quality jobs and spearhead the development of the strategic technologies underpinning our energy transition.
the transition to a sustainable long-term energy production model is a social priority that cannot be left to the market alone.
on the contrary, we must understand that regulation and democratic participation are essential if we are to avoid serious social and environmental externalities.
we must prevent energy oligopolies from dictating europe's energy future.
this must be a priority if our social model is to be sustainable.
‒ good news in a difficult social climate: the european parliament granted belgium eur 1 824 041 to support the reintegration into the labour market of 488 workers made redundant by several construction machinery manufacturers in the province of hainaut in wallonia.
i am pleased that these new measures are in addition to the efforts already made by the actors concerned to achieve a sustainable bluefin tuna fishery and thus ensure the sustainability of our fishing opportunities.
in adopting this document, parliament approved the text of the regulation which transposes into eu law various measures taken by iccat (international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas) in 2012, 2013 and 2014. the objective of the regulation is to achieve a bluefin tuna biomass corresponding to the maximum sustainable yield by 2022, with a probability of at least 60% to achieve this objective.
‒ the european parliament calls on the european commission to take account in its bluefin tuna recovery plan of non-industrial fishing activities and the most artisanal and sustainable types of gear, such as traditional tuna traps.
they specifically contribute to the recovery of tuna stocks, as they are highly selective and have a low environmental impact in marine ecosystems.
‒ as i did for bluefin tuna, i approve this multiannual plan for cod, herring and sprat stocks, which takes into account the elements of the baltic sea ecosystem, environmental conditions and socio-economic impact.
the inclusion in the multiannual plans of concepts of responsible resource management such as the ecosystem-based approach, maximum sustainable yield and the precautionary principle perfectly reflects the european approach to fishing activities and i welcome this.
only this approach can reverse the trend towards overfishing and thus towards the unsustainable exploitation of our fisheries resources, which seriously jeopardises the sustainability of fishing activities in all the regions of the world concerned.
these three species are essential to the baltic sea ecosystem because of their strong biological interactions.
the latter will ensure the sustainable exploitation of stocks in accordance with the principles of maximum sustainable yield and the ecosystem approach to fisheries management.
the text of the regulation states that the objective of the plan should be to contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the cfp, in particular to achieve and maintain a maximum sustainable yield (msy) for the stocks concerned (cabal, herring, sprat).
finally, the plan implements the ecosystem approach to fisheries management to ensure that the negative impacts of fishing activities on the marine ecosystem are 'minimized'.
the plan should allow for the balanced and sustainable exploitation of these stocks and stable fishing opportunities and thus resources for fishermen.
at the same time, it should ensure management based on the latest scientific advice as regards the state of the stocks concerned, the interactions between species and other aspects related to the ecosystem and fisheries.
action plans must be developed to prevent this latent crisis, in a tense pre-electoral climate, from leading to violence that threatens the stability of the country and the subregion and from turning into a security crisis.
for example, the establishment of partnerships between education and the labour market in the member states can be a source of sustainable growth.
‒ the development of renewable energies requires a reorientation, making them the cornerstone of the union's energy model.
climate change must be fought, and we have a responsibility to do so.
the dependence on energy resources from other countries must be reduced if we are to achieve the goal of taking a leading role in the development of strategic technologies for the energy transition, of structuring a successful and realistic energy production model and thus of creating quality jobs.
‒ i have endorsed this report which, while welcoming its efforts in favour of renewable energy, encourages the commission to ensure the implementation of the renewable energy directive and to propose an ambitious legislative framework after 2020. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of renewable energy sources in the transport sector.
it also stresses the importance for the renewable energy sector of sharing best practice, support schemes and access to capital, particularly for smes.
this is the result of an ambitious move by the eu and its member states towards a low-carbon economy based on more efficient energy use and the exploitation of renewable energy sources.
in the context of the commitments it made at the paris climate summit, it is a logical next step for it, together with the member states, to raise its ambitions, invest more in energy technology and tighten the renewable energy directive.
the cost of renewable energy has fallen sharply in recent years.
this creates opportunities to launch an integrated, competitive and sustainable european energy policy.
the optimal use of renewable energy sources, further technological innovation and the roll-out of smart energy networks are the main pillars of an ambitious, competitive european energy market.
citizens should therefore be encouraged to participate actively in this energy market by generating, using, storing and selling their own energy.
in some eu countries, biomass from wood is the most widely used renewable energy for heating.
as forests are crucial to our ecosystem, responsible exploitation and sustainable use of our forests is important.
‒ there is a strong chance that renewable energy will be the world's leading energy source by 2030. the european union, including belgium, therefore has every interest in investing in the clean energy sector, if only to reduce its energy dependence.
this is what the lópez bermejo report, adopted this afternoon, emphasizes in a broad sense, listing in more detail the progress made in the renewable energy sector.
clearly, not all member states are equal in ensuring their energy transition.
however, as the european parliament resolution stresses, all member states must show common ambition, decarbonise their industries and aim for 30% renewable energy by 2030.
in writing.
‒ on the eve of the review of the european legislative framework in the autumn, the european parliament reaffirmed on thursday 23 june its high ambitions for renewable energy by 2030. the text of the adopted resolution emphasises the key role of self-production and self-consumption, decentralised production of renewable energy and collective energy management through municipalities, all areas in which the next revision of the renewable energy directive will have to encourage investment.
i also voted in favour of an amendment which stresses the enormous job creation potential of the renewable energy sector and calls on the member states to ensure that labour standards are not weakened by the energy transition, which should also be based on the creation of quality jobs.
‒ the development of renewable energies requires a new approach that would make them the cornerstone of the european union's energy model.
our fundamental responsibility is to fight climate change, a historic task that we must do.
we must also reduce our dependence on energy resources from the rest of the world if we are to structure our production model, create quality jobs and spearhead the development of the strategic technologies underpinning our energy transition.
the transition to a sustainable long-term energy production model is a social priority that cannot be left to the market alone.
on the contrary, we must understand that regulation and democratic participation are essential if we are to avoid serious social and environmental externalities.
we must prevent energy oligopolies from dictating europe's energy future.
‒ the development of renewable energy requires a new approach that makes renewable energy the central pillar of the european union's energy model.
we have a fundamental responsibility to address climate change.
we also need to reduce our dependence on energy sources from the rest of the world if we are to support our production model, create quality jobs and play a leading role in the development of strategic technology for the energy transition.
the transition to a sustainable energy production model is a social priority that cannot be addressed by the market alone.
we must assume that regulation and democratic participation are necessary to avoid serious social and environmental externalities.
we must prevent the future of energy in europe from being determined by energy oligopolies.
– it is clear that renewable energy is becoming increasingly important to our union in two different ways.
first of all, we have to safeguard the environment, following up on international agreements such as cop 21, to which we are a signatory.
secondly, we need to safeguard the eu’s energy independence.
i strongly believe that renewable energy has the best chance of succeeding if we cooperate at eu level.
‒ between 1991 and 2014, greenhouse gas emissions in the eu fell by 23%.
this shows that as the climate impact decreases, businesses and citizens generate more growth, creating jobs and tax revenues.
the eu is on track to meet its 2020 targets of reducing co2 emissions by 20%, increasing the share of renewable energy in total energy consumption to 20% and achieving 20% more energy efficiency.
however, the high bureaucratic burden in the energy sector and the high energy prices for medium-sized business customers and households are a cause for concern.
in addition, as there are also several national and european regulations, some of which are in conflict with each other, i join parliament in calling on the commission to work towards a more coherent climate and energy policy and to make additional efforts towards a pan-european electricity market design.
‒ this report, which i approved, underlines that while the energy efficiency directive has brought about many positive improvements in the member states, its implementation remains insufficient, particularly in terms of quality job creation.
it stressed the importance of initiating the transition to an energy system based on renewable energies, which would make it possible to phase out fossil fuels as quickly as possible.
efficient use of energy is crucial to achieving our climate and energy goals.
although the eu is on track to achieve its 2020 targets overall, we note that the energy efficiency directive and the buildings directive have not yet been fully implemented.
however, energy efficiency is the most necessary step towards a sustainable energy market which will make us more independent of energy imports, stimulate innovation and help create new jobs.
moreover, both citizens and businesses have an interest in lower energy bills.
in the context of the eu's commitments at the paris climate summit, it is desirable that the eu raise its energy saving targets by proposing new and innovative solutions that reduce energy consumption on the one hand and aim at a more rational use of renewable energy on the other.
for example, the building sector has a lot of room to transform itself into a more energy-efficient sector.
it is therefore desirable that the commission, the eib and the member states provide technical assistance and support to housing projects implementing sophisticated insulation techniques, more modern heating systems and the use of private renewable energy sources.
‒ on the eve of the review of the legislative framework in the autumn, the european parliament reaffirmed on thursday 23 june its high ambitions for energy efficiency by 2030. the resolution on energy efficiency stresses the need for full implementation of existing eu legislation to achieve the union's 2020 energy efficiency target (20% increase by 2020).
parliament also reiterated its ambition for a 40% energy efficiency target by 2030, with binding national targets for member states to redouble their efforts.
the text also calls on the eu to invest more in information and support programmes in the member states to encourage the participation of local actors in energy efficiency programmes and to promote new solutions in refrigeration, lighting, insulation, etc.
energy efficiency is crucial to achieving our climate goals as part of the goals endorsed by cop21 in paris.
it is of paramount importance to reduce our dependence on imported energy, create jobs, reduce energy poverty, improve comfort and health, and boost our economy.
i would point out that the energy efficiency directive has brought about many positive improvements in the member states, but that insufficient implementation is hampering its true potential.
‒ in the eu, greenhouse gas emissions fell by 23% between 1990 and 2014. over the same period, eu gdp increased by 46%.
with less and less impact on the climate, businesses and citizens are driving more growth, creating new jobs and generating tax revenues.
the european union is well on track to meet its 2020 targets of 20% reduction in co2 emissions, 20% increase in the share of renewable energy in total energy consumption and 20% increase in energy efficiency.
this scheme not only encourages emission reductions but also investment in energy-efficient technology.
– ensuring the future of energy in the eu requires a combination of approaches.
while renewable energy plays an important role in this future, we also have to work on energy efficiency.
it sends a positive message, stressing the progress that has been made and recognises the role of ets and the implementation of the energy efficiency directive herein.
as long as we ensure that energy efficiency is in the industry’s interest, the market will become more energy efficient by itself.
it is that climate of fear that has been created and that negative vision that has been created that is the most shocking thing about what happened in britain, not the choice of the people.
only the immediate invocation of the procedure for a clean separation, as foreseen in the treaty, can end what i call the toxic climate that has been created since thursday of last week, a toxic climate that is bad for business, bad for investment, bad – mr farage – for all hardworking, ordinary, decent people.
you are lying, because who can believe that even the most powerful member state of the european union can successfully confront alone the exorbitant powers of multinational companies, climate change, tax evasion, organised crime and terrorism or the reception of refugees and migrants.
this option consists in curbing the ability of states to carry out their public service mission by means of economically absurd budgetary and accounting rules and by putting their social and tax systems into competition, in unleashing market forces - as you like to say - by deregulating everything, in particular, mr timmermans, in social and environmental matters, by being morbidly obstinate - mrs malmström - in concluding so-called trade treaties whose main purpose is to lock up our democracies, in preferring too often opacity - and i turn to the council - in transparency in decision-making, so as to avoid having to pay the political price of your decisions.
we want the european union to return to the roots of its project, which was to secure peace on this continent through the extension of democratic freedoms on the one hand and through sustainable and shared prosperity on the other.
is it not possible to make the energy transition the flagship project of our economic recovery?
is it possible to ban the poisons that are killing our environment and our organisms slowly?
finally we are going us to get rid of the biggest waste in the union’s budget that we have paid for 17 years.
we must have the courage to think about this if we are to ensure the sustainability of our social security.
on behalf of the alde group the reform of this energy label must serve several purposes for me.
first, it should encourage the manufacturer to innovate and bring more energy-efficient appliances to the market.
finally, it should also encourage consumers to buy more energy-efficient appliances.
this will reduce consumption and lower the energy bill.
in both cases, you are being misled as a consumer, it is bad for the environment and you will also feel it in your wallet, at the petrol station or on your energy bill.
these engines are a major source of air pollution and account for about 15% of nitrogen oxide emissions and 5% of particulate matter emissions in the european union.
i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to protect human health and the environment and to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market as regards engines installed in non-road mobile machinery.
in line with the union's air quality policy, the aim is to gradually reduce emissions from new engines placed on the market and thus to replace older, more polluting engines over time.
this initiative should result in a very significant overall reduction in emissions, although the reduction per engine category will vary according to the level of specific requirements currently in force.
emissions from engines of such machinery (such as inland waterway vessels, locomotives and construction machinery) account for 15% of nox emissions and 5% of particulate matter emissions.
if action is not taken now, emissions are likely to increase in the coming years.
the agreement puts forward stricter emission standards and thereby contributes to improving air quality and protecting human health and the environment.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs.
the emissions from these non-road vehicles are far from insignificant.
they account for 15% of total nitrogen dioxide (nox) emissions and 5% of fine particulate matter emissions in the eu.
i am also pleased with the revising clause which should allow for the revision of emission thresholds and stimulate innovation to continuously improve emissions.
after setting new standards for combustion plants and industrial emissions earlier this year, parliament has now also adopted a new framework for emissions from non-road mobile machinery such as generators or yard vehicles.
15% of all nox emissions in europe come from these engines.
a significant reduction in emissions will yield environmental and health dividends.
‒ lawnmowers, bulldozers, tractors, diesel locomotives, inland waterway vessels and other non-road motor vehicles are vehicles which have a significant impact on air pollution.
it was therefore important that the european union adopt legislation to severely limit the pollutant emissions from these machines for environmental reasons as well as for public health reasons.
this is excellent news for the health of our european citizens and for the environment.
we have been working for a long time on the creation of frameworks that aim to reduce emissions.
i welcome the commission proposal because this regulation aims to improve our environment and the health of our citizens, while at the same time enhancing the functioning of our internal market with regard to nrmm by ensuring a level playing field and remedying unfair competition.
meps stress that the labour market conditions in host countries are one of the key factors in the successful and sustainable integration of refugees.
‒ sustainability and corporate social responsibility are important issues.
i have advocated that further wto reforms be actively promoted to establish multinational rules for the sustainable and responsible management of large supply chains.
‒ social, environmental and human rights standards in trade agreements have become major concerns for citizens.
‒ as the n-va delegation, we abstain on the resolution on the implementation of the 2010 recommendations of the parliament on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate social responsibility.
indeed, greater respect for human rights contributes to a democratic, peaceful and secure international environment.
in this context, parliament encouraged the commission to integrate into its trade strategy the desire to strengthen respect for human rights and to defend social and environmental standards.
‒ in 2010, the european parliament had already had the opportunity to make recommendations to the commission on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate social responsibility.
it is necessary to provide incentives to encourage undertakings to make commitments in the field of corporate social responsibility (csr) and voluntary measures to identify and prevent any violation of human rights and environmental rights, as well as any form of corruption or tax evasion, including in their subsidiaries and supply chains.
i voted in favour of this report because it asks the commission to take into account the aspects of gender equality, environmental and social standards in its assessment of the trade strategy.
the report stresses the importance of trade and foreign investment as important means of achieving economic growth, sustainable development, good governance and the protection of human rights.
there is a significant link between increased prosperity and better protection of social and human rights, workers' rights and a higher level of environmental protection.
moreover, it establishes the link between trade, foreign direct investment and sustainable development.
trade and investment agreements should be designed to strengthen sustainable development and promote human rights, social and labour standards and environmental sustainability worldwide.
it is also important that this strategy takes full account of respect for human rights, social and environmental standards.
we cannot accept that products from countries which practice social and environmental dumping come to compete unfairly with our european companies.
in this regard, it can be used to enhance sustainable development and promote human rights.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on combating trafficking in human beings in the eu's external relations because it contains a series of recommendations which i support with energy and conviction.
i would like to mention in particular your opposition to the reform of the dublin system, a reform which aims to organise a fair and sustainable distribution of refugees in all the countries of the union.
mr president, your presidency is beginning under a turbulent climate.
as rapporteur for this parliament's recent report on biodiversity, i would like to make one concrete suggestion: you are fully committed to the preservation of the nature directives and are determined to improve their implementation.
azerbaijan is part of the eastern partnership of the european neighbourhood policy and is an important partner, particularly from the energy point of view.
this is of paramount importance not only because of the strategic role of this energy partner, but also because it would benefit sectoral cooperation with azerbaijan.
azerbaijan is an important energy partner of the eu.
‒ network and information security (nis) is becoming increasingly important in our economy and society, as it creates an important prerequisite for creating a reliable environment for the global flow of services.
the aim is to better manage cyberattacks against companies that provide essential services (such as energy, air transport, drinking water supply, banking and health services, digital services such as search engines and cloud computing services).
first, companies in sensitive sectors (banking, energy, health, etc.)
‒ companies that provide essential services such as energy, transport, banking or healthcare or companies that provide online services such as search engines or cloud computing services need to take action to be able to repel cyberattacks.
‒ i voted in favour of this harmonisation on energy labelling, which is good for the environment because consumers can, wherever they are in the union, obtain accurate, relevant and comparable information on the energy efficiency and energy consumption of energy-related products, enabling them to make informed, cost-effective and environmentally friendly purchasing decisions, for the benefit of both the environment and their wallet.
‒ i voted in favour of this proposal from the european commission to introduce a new scale identifying more strictly the energy efficiency of household appliances.
it will also set stricter requirements and provide further impetus for improvements in energy efficiency.
energy efficiency labelling provides consumers with information on the efficiency and lifetime of energy-related products.
labelling also reduces energy consumption and thus reduces the cost of energy bills for citizens.
in order to continue to promote innovation in energy-saving products, i believe it is important to maintain the colour scale indicating to consumers the energy efficiency of products from a to g. this allows for greater transparency and understanding of the energy use of products on the market.
this energy labelling must therefore be considered as the only valid labelling in the european union in order to ensure optimal monitoring of energy products available on the market.
in order to ensure consistent implementation of energy labelling, suppliers will have to ensure that each product has a data sheet complying with european standards showing the energy efficiency of the product on the defined scale from a to g. this means that each member state will have to submit to these measures and submit an annual report, which i believe will lead to a better compliance of energy products on the european market.
‒ i voted in favour of a single but also clearer labelling on the energy efficiency of household appliances.
one study shows that 85% of european consumers take the energy index into account when choosing a product.
in order to make the energy labelling system easier to read and to enable consumers to make an informed choice when purchasing electrical appliances, the text provides for a scale from a to g, thus replacing the + increasingly present in the current upper class.
it shows the success of the energy label: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
products are consuming less and less energy, which is why plus signs are being added to labels.
the christian democrats and the liberals are ignoring outdated techniques at the expense of consumers and the climate.
many of these boilers are hardly energy efficient.
‒ there was no harmonisation of energy efficiency labelling for european household electrical appliances.
the european parliament will vote today on a single labelling scale from a to g to provide clearer information to consumers and reduce their energy consumption.
‒ the n-va delegation voted today in favour of the report on energy labelling.
the energy label was in dire need of renewal because of the ambiguity it created for the consumer.
by adding pluses, the incentive for consumers to make the most energy-conscious choice was gone.
this will make a significant contribution to energy savings and lower energy bills, while promoting innovation and investment in the manufacture of more energy-efficient products.
in addition, it gives the citizen a more central place in the eu energy transition, through the public interface of a database.
the consumer needs to be able to quickly determine what he/ she is buying and how energy efficient their product is, relative to other ones.
given the recent problems with regard to emissions in the automobile industry, it is important that consumer trust is restored.
national authorities with coast guard functions are responsible for a wide range of tasks, which may include maritime safety and security, search and rescue operations, border control, fisheries control, customs control, general law enforcement and environmental protection.
‒ national authorities performing coast guard functions are responsible for a significant number of tasks in areas as diverse as safety, security, rescue at sea, border control, customs control, environmental protection and general law enforcement.
‒ national authorities performing coast guard functions are responsible for a significant number of tasks in areas as diverse as safety, security, rescue at sea, border control, customs control, environmental protection and general law enforcement.
on the agri-environmental side, the cap provides additional income for farmers through the first and second pillars, which support agricultural production, environmental programmes and economic activity in rural areas and combat rural exodus.
‒ i supported this joint resolution which recalls the necessary synergy between the european structural and investment funds, horizon 2020 and other eu innovation funds and programmes (european connectivity facility, digital single market, energy union, etc.).
i reiterate that the links between cohesion policy and other union policies and initiatives (horizon 2020, the connecting europe facility, rural development, the digital single market and the energy union) have been strengthened within the csf introduced by the common provisions regulation which, through all its instruments and objectives, including the urban agenda, the territorial agenda, investment in smes, or the smart growth and smart specialisation strategies, therefore contributes to the achievement of the europe 2020 strategy objectives.
europe can make a difference in economic, social, migration, environmental, the fight against terrorism and so on.
europe is particularly committed to the paris climate agreement.
moreover, it calls for a fair environment for both consumers and smes, removing barriers preventing this.
the union must condemn this illegal trade and show its support for animal and environmental organisations.
whaling undermines the protection of biodiversity and marine ecosystems, is unnecessary for scientific research and is contrary to the standards of the international whaling commission and international law.
the nva is convinced that eu trade policy should provide an incentive for the trading partner to improve animal welfare and environmental protection, among other things.
europe has never been so prosperous, safe and free: that's literally what it sounded like in the preface in 2003. the dramatic aftermath of the arab spring in the south, the russian aggression in the east, the bloody conflicts in africa, the terror in our own cities: it all shows that that optimism has faded and the security environment has changed.
the kingdom may be an important partner of the eu in energy and security, but we are not going to compromise on human rights, are we?
the content of the report covers peace and security, counter-terrorism, non-proliferation and disarmament, migration, development, climate change, human rights, democracy and the rule of law.
after all, global challenges such as terrorism and climate change require global solutions.
the commission considers that the request to the un to take an active part in the debate on the term 'climate refugee', including a possible legal definition of it in international law, is unrealistic.
the european parliament has voted to ban certain claims used for the sale of sugary drinks and caffeinated energy drinks.
‒ the n-va delegation supports the objection to health claims on drinks containing caffeine, mainly energy drinks.
another reason to support the objection is the high sugar content of such energy drinks and the fact that children and young people are in practice important consumers of these products.
‒ i supported this objection because i believe that sugary drinks and caffeinated energy drinks should not be allowed to claim to promote alertness or concentration.
such claims encourage excessive consumption of energy drinks and result in higher consumption of caffeine and sugar (a 250 ml can of energy drink can contain up to 27 g of sugar and 80 mg of caffeine) by children and adolescents, who are already the main consumers of energy drinks.
energy drink consumption has risks in terms of obesity and medical complications in the short and long term.
it is also thought to be linked to problems such as headaches, sleep problems and other behavioural problems in children and adolescents who regularly consume energy drinks.
the granting of a health certificate for caffeine would thus give manufacturers of energy drinks, for example, a free hand to claim that their products are beneficial to health.
a can of energy drink contains up to 27 mg of refined sugars and 80 mg of caffeine and is popular among young people.
about 70 percent of youths regularly drink energy drinks, and with these, youths easily exceed the daily allowance.
it should be noted that 68 percent of teenagers and 18 percent of children regularly consume energy drinks.
according to the world health organization, fast carbohydrates should be limited to 10 percent of the daily energy intake.
this afternoon we are voting to ban certain claims used for the sale of sugary drinks and caffeinated energy drinks.
if you know that 68% of teenagers and 18% of children drink energy drinks regularly, that there is insufficient information available to determine a safe level of caffeine consumption for children, and that 25% of teenagers who drink energy drinks drink three or more cans in a row, then you know that there is an urgent need for action.
a strong policy, both the european heating and cooling strategy and the proposal for a new energy market are essential to the realisation of our european energy union.
we must remove the energy barriers between member states.
that far too many regulations, but also literal physical boundaries, are an obstacle to an efficient energy market.
it is regrettable that the report calls for brussels to determine the energy mix of the member states.
it is up to the member states and the market to determine that, not the commission's dg energy.
the major energy savings can be achieved in the heating and cooling sector.
we must first of all focus on increasing efficiency: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the efficiency of the energy sector, including the reduction of energy consumption through technological applications, but also the reuse of heat from industrial processes.
we are halfway now, and we discovered that it is not only volkswagen, but many other companies that overstretched loopholes – the legal loopholes – by switching off emission control under a broad range of operational conditions, with the result that after 10 years we have now more emissions and our legal system is being violated.
cars with illegal defeat strategies are entering our markets daily, letting them emit too much, and that will cause extra pollution for the years to come.
all the technology is there to meet euro 6 nox standards for diesel today, also in real driving conditions and without negative impact on co2 emissions.
we must continue to work towards a strong final report in the interests of public health, the environment and consumer confidence.
and secondly, mr president, by ensuring that we can adopt the legislative proposals, type approval among others, and the subsequent proposals on real driving emissions, because we have to take further steps, as soon as possible, hopefully in quick agreement with the council, so that they can become legislation.
it is essential to enable regions to specialise in sectors with a future and high growth rates which best suit them in view of their specific strengths, their capacities and also the skills present in their territories, thus allowing the creation of a sustainable economic fabric and above all the direct and indirect employment they so badly need.
we will only remain globally competitive if we create the conditions for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, which presupposes improving our capacity to innovate.
i voted in favour of this report because in these times of economic, financial and social crisis the eu must make extra efforts to create smart, sustainable and economic growth.
‒ i have approved this own-initiative report which highlights the added value of european territorial cooperation, particularly in areas such as environmental protection and mobility.
this strategy has resulted in the emergence of good practices in areas as diverse as connectivity, mobility and accessibility of services at regional level, knowledge transfer, the development of innovation and therefore the development of the competitiveness of smes, the enhancement of regional brand image, the response to environmental challenges, the improvement of risk management, the response to disasters, etc.
best practices have clear added value: joint preparation of a proposal for the inclusion of the german-czech mining region on the unesco world heritage list (germany (saxony) - czech republic); development of 'green' tourism activities to preserve the outstanding natural heritage of the region (germany/bavaria-austria); development of local strategies based on the results of specific programme projects (norway, sweden, denmark), ramsar eco natour project, creation of recreational spaces for urban cities in vienna and bratislava and improvement of local awareness and regional cooperation on climate change and biodiversity protection (austria, slovakia), etc.
‒ following revelations of rigged diesel car emissions tests, the european parliament has set up a committee of inquiry into emission measurements in the automotive industry (emis).
‒ following the scandal of falsified emissions tests of volkswagen cars in september 2015, the european parliament decided to set up a 45-member committee of inquiry into allegations of breaches of eu law in relation to emission measurement in the automotive sector to examine these alleged breaches.
for obvious environmental and public health reasons, but also for simple reasons of fairness towards citizens and fair competition between manufacturers, we cannot accept the idea that economic actors feel entitled to falsify their emissions in view of possible inadequate controls or poor application of relevant eu law.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it is quite clear that, at mid-term, the parliamentary committee of inquiry into automobile emissions (set up following revelations of fraudulent schemes used by the volkswagen group to reduce polluting emissions during official car tests) needs more information from the european commission, in particular on emission measurements as well as details from the expert working group on vehicle typeapproval procedures.
the cost of non-europe, because it is damaging the image of the automotive industry - especially the german industry - and it will be more difficult tomorrow to teach the lesson to the other major world powers who are reluctant to contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.
finally, we call on the member states, in full respect of the principle of loyal cooperation, to provide the committee of inquiry with the necessary technical and political assistance, in particular by enabling the commission to submit the required documents more rapidly and, if the communication of documents is subject to the approval of the member states, by speeding up their internal procedures in the field of the protection of the environment.
‒ following the finding that not all new cars on the road meet the emission standards set out in the purchase brochure and/or manual, the european parliament set up a committee of inquiry to find out the true extent of the so-called emissions fraud in new cars.
‒ i voted against the appointment of mr leo brincat as a member of the court of auditors, following his hearing, and in view of his previous role as minister for sustainable development, environment and climate change in the maltese government, which acted inappropriately in relation to the panama papers revelations.
‒ the legislative proposal amending the existing directive 2008/92/ec was published in november 2015 as part of the state of the energy union package.
as the increasing complexity of the internal energy market makes obtaining reliable and up-to-date data increasingly difficult and increasingly important, a legislative act covering the collection of both types of data will be beneficial.
the creation of an energy market must first be achieved by making available reliable statistics for all member states in order to be able to compare the price of gas and electricity charged to residential and non-residential end customers within the european union.
this is a crucial element because after all, our whole society, our daily lives, depend on the supply of energy.
‒ the aim of this report is to strengthen the internal energy market.
the report also calls for the full integration of renewable energy into the electricity system, ensuring that markets are equipped to do so and promoting the share of renewable energy in the electricity market in line with the share of conventional energy sources.
i also believe that regional cooperation in the field of energy policy should be strengthened and that a uniform european framework for the promotion of renewable energies should be established.
the report underlines the growing share of renewable energy in the european union and stresses that full integration of renewable energy into the electricity market is essential.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of renewable energy sources.
how do we ensure that europe's energy supply remains secure in the near future?
and how do we ensure that energy becomes affordable and sustainable?
in order to meet these challenges, this report rightly points to the need for strengthened european energy networks.
a stronger energy infrastructure in europe would increase our energy independence.
the new structure of the energy market, which will be decentralised, would also lead to crossborder competition, which would result in price advantages for consumers due to the presence of several energy suppliers.
at the same time, the growing supply of renewable energy sources, the integration of those renewable energy sources into the energy market and the development of smart grids and new technologies for distributed generation will also enable consumers to play a more active role as both consumers and producers of energy.
‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on a new organisation of the energy market to make it more integrated at european level.
i am also in favour of renewable energy support schemes which are adapted to national circumstances.
we are well aware that the development of these renewable energies is a necessity for the planet and is a source of jobs and inclusive growth.
indeed, the challenges facing europe in the field of energy include the dependence on oil and gas imports, which has further increased in recent years, the lack of diversification, high energy prices characterised by state duties, the growing global demand for energy, security risks for producing and transit countries, the fight against climate change, the lack of progress in energy efficiency, the growing share of renewable energy, the integration and interconnection of energy markets and market distortions due to different aid schemes.
‒ the completion of the european internal energy market is a demand of the liberals in the european parliament.
a european internal energy market would bring with it a greater supply of affordable and renewable energy sources.
in a europe without internal frontiers, we should also be able to have an energy market without internal frontiers for the benefit of all eu citizens.
the eu’s energy market needs to become more interconnected and integrated.
we need to empower consumers to become ‘prosumers’ of green energy, and also the future possibilities of battery storage offer a lot of opportunities to succeed in a transition to a more sustainable energy landscape in the eu.
‒ the commission presented its first strategy to reduce the high energy consumption, in particular of fossil fuels, in the heating and cooling sector.
this is one of the priorities of the energy union.
heating and cooling is one of the most energy-intensive sectors in the eu, accounting for about 50% of the eu's energy consumption, and where renewables account for only 18% of the energy consumption, compared with 75% for fossil fuels.
the strategy includes plans to increase the energy efficiency of buildings and to improve the connections between electricity systems and district heating networks.
the aim is to significantly increase the use of renewable energy sources and to promote the reuse of waste heat and cold generated in industry.
i also share the view that europe can only remain competitive if it invests in innovative and sustainable concepts in research and development, particularly in the energy sector.
i also believe that there is still a great need for action on climate change and energy efficiency.
the report calls for specific long-term strategies based on renewable energy to be developed.
it also called for energy efficiency standards to be strengthened and for the commission to provide appropriate co-financing for initiatives to renovate public buildings and multi-unit dwellings which are characterised by low energy efficiency.
at the same time, member states are invited to phase out the use of old boilers in urban areas that generate low-level emissions.
half of the eu's final energy demand is still used for heating.
at the same time, our buildings emit 13 percent of all co2 emissions in europe.
if we act now, we can achieve enormous results in reducing co2 emissions in a very short time.
insulation remains the fastest way to energy efficiency and well taken renovation and insulation projects are boosting our economy and employment.
in addition, the share of renewable and recovered energy should be increased.
this energy can be captured and used to heat homes.
i therefore support the proposals to support local authorities and private individuals through the existing structural and investment funds in the intelligent modernisation of the energy systems of public buildings, residential areas and private homes.
this strategy should, in particular, help to reduce the energy poverty that still affects many european citizens today.
among the ideas supported i would mention the european parliament's desire to see renewable energies more integrated into neighbourhood networks.
given the particularly high energy efficiency of reversible heat pumps and their great potential for heating and cooling, intensive research into new innovative solutions in this area is necessary.
since 'heating and cooling' accounts for the majority of energy demand in the eu, it is important that we deal with it very purposefully and carefully.
we call on national, local and european authorities to create a favourable environment for tenants and people living in multi-apartment buildings to enable them to benefit from self-production, renewable heating and cooling and energy efficiency measures.
we also point out that energy from waste will continue to play an important role in the field of heating, as landfilling and the use of fossil fuels are often the alternative.
– a substantial part of the eu’s energy is used to heat and cool houses and buildings across the eu.
therefore, if the eu wants to increase its energy-efficiency we will have to work on the infrastructures that provide these.
finally, becoming more energy-efficient also means that we become less dependent on third countries for our energy supply, for example, with regard to our gas supply.
the report also highlights the importance of thematic concentration and its role in sustainable development, the quality dimension of job creation and the involvement of smes in the partnership principle, including specific organisations targeting eco-entrepreneurs.
the common objective of investments under the esi funds is to support the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy of the european union for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
there is a clear need for mechanisms that simplify the business environment and, with the help of refit, speed up the start-up process of new businesses.
the aim of diversifying tourism is also supported, and the importance of improving transport and energy connections and of protecting and promoting biodiversity in the alpine region is emphasised.
they also call on the commission to develop the labour market in the alpine region, to give priority to investment in digital infrastructure and, in environmental matters, to promote biodiversity.
this strategy contributes to strengthening the objective of environmental, territorial, social and economic cohesion.
climate change is manifesting itself there more quickly than elsewhere, and increasingly this is leading to natural disasters such as avalanches and floods.
firstly, this would lead to an increase in the ceilings of the current multiannual financial framework, which was set for the period 2014-2020. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
we can see how difficult it is to defend agreements whose weaknesses you know, because i know that you have a sensitivity to the cause, namely the cause of sustainable development and the participation of civil society.
it is in such an environment that you have a split between generations and people who have lost control over their lives and do not believe that we politicians are capable of controlling their lives and helping them in their fears.
it is in such an environment that you see the rise of nationalism and populism, not only in europe, let us face it.
the migration problem is solved with that and climate change is solved with that.
how can you keep climate change outside your borders?
i think the environment is there because, let us look to brexit.
‒ the economic partnership agreement (epa) aims to promote trade, regional integration and the progressive integration of the acp countries into the world economy and to encourage their sustainable development.
it will contribute to sustainable economic growth and enhanced interregional trade and integration.
the hazardous working environment, accidents and accumulation of fatigue are among the characteristics that make fishing atypical and require special attention.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
the recent cases of caterpillar and alstom are a reflection of a more widespread phenomenon of mass redundancies across the eu as a result of the changing economic environment, with deep employment and social effects.
together we need to engage in efforts to manage the adaptation of the current economic environment, achieving gains in competitiveness, whilst preserving quality employment.
research and innovation are essential for the sustainable development of the european economy.
the industrial dimension is also incorporated into all other major commission policies: the single market strategy, the circular economy package, the digital single market, the energy union, the capital markets union, our research and development agenda, the better regulation agenda, the trade for all strategy and the new skills agenda for europe.
so we must step up our efforts at all levels to ensure that europe remains a competitive and attractive environment for manufacturing.
but passing the bill on to the taxpayer is not a sustainable solution.
and we're right because whether it's energy, mobility, buildings, to take just these three examples, industry has a critical role to play in the transition of our economy to an energy and resource-efficient economy.
we must put an end to these draft trade agreements tailored to the interests of shareholders alone and make access to the european market conditional on compliance with the social, environmental and fiscal standards of our union.
let us set ourselves ambitious and binding targets for energy and resource efficiency.
let us ensure that the juncker investment plan, instead of just throwing money around, focuses on industry and the ecological transition.
we have been advocating for a long time to green this quantitative easing, in other words to target investments not on speculation - we can see that asset markets are exploding because liquidity is being injected into the system - but rather to direct, through the european investment bank and other public investment tools, this liquidity towards the investments necessary for the ecological transition of the economy.
we must find the means at european and national level to really build projects with a future in economic terms, projects with a future in terms of energy, mobility or digital technology.
i note that belgium is not showing a lot of energy to recover its fair share of the unpaid taxes from apple.
we could call them the devilish lovers who are ready for anything, even the irreparable, because i think what they really want is to undermine the european economy, all to avoid participating in the financing of our social model, whether it be affordable and quality health care, social protection, education for all, support for employment, a sustainable economy or security for each of us.
simpler prospectuses means that less money is spent on legal formalities and more energy can be diverted to creating businesses and jobs.
a better and more efficient investment climate is a necessary condition for this.
access to information is essential if we are to create a trusting environment conducive to investment and hence growth.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
thus, vocational training and job creation are at the heart of the commission's priorities for inclusive and sustainable growth.
we must put a stop to this, because illegal trade is deadly for biodiversity.
but the illegal trade has other disastrous and often deadly consequences: the eu is also committed to the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
this transnational crime has not only immense consequences for biodiversity; illegal trade is detrimental to local economic development, fuels corruption and is used by militias as a source of conflict financing.
wildlife trafficking has become a form of transnational organised crime that is seriously damaging the world's biodiversity.
this accession is a fundamental step forward in ensuring that the union pursues the broader objectives of its environmental policies and the regulation of international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora, as well as the promotion of the sustainable development policies of the united nations 2030 agenda.
promoting greater competition in this sector is also important to achieve the europe 2020 objectives for sustainable growth in a resource-efficient and more competitive economy.
‒ the postal services directive provides member states with the necessary scope to respond to specific local characteristics and to ensure that the provision of universal services remains sustainable in the long term.
the issue of access to finance for smes cannot therefore be ignored, as is the question of sustainability and development of employment.
it is important to be able to take account of their specificities in the legislative process, but never, and i stress this, to call into question social and environmental standards.
‒ given the many forms of smes, including micro-enterprises, their financing needs are best served by a diverse, well-regulated and stable financial services sector that offers a wide range of cost-effective and tailor-made financing options, and allows for sustainable long-term development.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is essential to support smes in order to develop a sustainable economic fabric, close to the citizens, of human scale and creating jobs that cannot be relocated.
it is important to be able to take account of their specificities in the legislative process, but never, and i stress this, to call into question social and environmental standards.
‒ smes offer a cooperative model that should be promoted, as it has already proven its sustainability and resilience in recent years.
the report stresses that adequate employment and social protection must be ensured to guarantee sustainable employment.
in order to support them, specific measures and/or requirements are mentioned, such as a stable regulatory environment, and improved quality of regulation and actual enforcement.
the working environment must also be adapted; to do this, the commission and the member states should not only focus on legislation, but also on creating a work culture and on the well-being of everyone.
the changing political climate of fear of unemployment and the refugee crisis is increasing racism and discrimination, including in the labour market.
the working environment must also be adapted; to do this, the commission and the member states should not only focus on legislation, but also on creating a work culture and on the well-being of everyone.
in the long term, however, it is also essential to create a fair and effective framework in europe in order to safeguard jobs and industrial sites in europe in a sustainable way.
the european social fund and the juncker plan must therefore directly complement the globalisation adjustment fund to ensure the sustainability of european industrial activity.
furthermore, member states should use these funds in their services to redundant workers to promote a resource-efficient and sustainable economy.
the first of these is that the future framework will have to put sustainable development goals at the heart of its priorities, but also and above all policy coherence for development to ensure that trade, migration, security and environmental policies are consistent and compatible with development goals.
other amendments to the regulation may also be approved by us, such as the requirement of prior authorization for intermediary services and technical assistance for goods covered by annexes iii and iiia and the prohibition of such services for goods covered by annex ii; the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against pollution caused by nitrates from agricultural sources.
‒ the paris agreement is a landmark event in the fight against climate change and for multilateralism.
convinced that this agreement should accelerate the transition to a climate-resilient and climate-neutral global economy, i voted in favour of its adoption.
‒ the n-va delegation has strongly endorsed the paris climate agreement.
climate change is one of the most important global challenges, along with biodiversity loss and resource scarcity.
the paris agreement is the first legally binding global climate agreement and aims to limit global warming to well below 2°c.
we can only fight climate change effectively with global and collective efforts.
europe has been at the forefront of the fight against climate change for years, but setting a good example is not enough.
so we have to address both the effects and the causes of climate change.
the initiative of flemish prime minister geert bourgeois for a flemish climate and energy summit illustrates our commitment.
the n-va wants to combine economic growth and prosperity with a low-carbon economy.
this implies that we make sustainable, efficient and effective choices that we can sustain for years.
‒ i voted in favour of ratifying the paris agreement on climate change because it is the first ever global, legally binding climate agreement and it is urgent that it can enter into force as soon as possible.
it is also an opportunity to build a more sustainable and competitive economic model and more stable societies.
for the agreement to enter into force, a double condition had to be met: ratification by at least 55 parties and 55% of global emissions.
parliament's vote also allows the eu to remain a leader on climate.
in the middle of the last century, the world came to the conclusion that our climate was going in the wrong direction.
meanwhile, scientific research has shown that industrial activities are at the root of that climate change.
in 1997, kyoto was the first to set limits on harmful greenhouse gas emissions.
many more climate conferences would follow.
one: because all partners have now taken the climate threat seriously and are now committing to limiting temperature rise to 1.5°c.
now we need to quickly develop a concrete and ambitious climate policy to achieve that 1.5°c target.
this implies serious efforts to reduce harmful gas emissions, to introduce new energy technologies and to develop a fully sustainable economy.
with this ratification, the eu reaffirms its global commitment to a better environment.
it will thus make it possible to implement the measures adopted in the paris agreement to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and effectively combat global warming.
the fight against climate change is also a fight against respect for human rights.
‒ the european parliament voted overwhelmingly to ratify the paris climate agreement.
this is important and good news for international climate policy and shows that if there is political will, things can move forward.
this could, in theory, lead to a situation where the eu negotiates on behalf of member states at the marrakesh climate summit, which have no say in the matter.
as of now, the emissions of the six member states that have already ratified count towards the 55 percent emission threshold that brings the climate agreement into force.
this will close a 3.1 percent gap in emissions.
that's just in time for the start of the climate summit in marrakech.
it is a clear signal that europe intends to meet its commitments for a transition to a low-carbon economy and society.
the challenges remain many: to achieve an energy union, to continue to support the conditions for innovation and job creation that this transition will bring.
europe must be a leader in the energy transition.
‒ i voted in favour of this ratification decision to send a strong signal about the leadership and efforts of the eu and its member states to fight climate change at international level.
europe is back in the climate negotiations.
after the european commission gave its approval, the european parliament ratified the paris climate agreement.
i am very pleased that we in the european parliament have ratified the climate agreement, and that we are taking a decisive step towards the entry into force of the agreement.
by doing so, parliament has given its contribution to reaching the required 55 signatories representing 55% of global emissions, to come into effect.
this agreement is a milestone in our efforts to stop climate change.
over the past years it has become clear that we have to take action in order to keep climate change under control.
this agreement provides a long-term plan that includes 189 nations and the vast majority of emissions worldwide.
at the same time, it also helps those nations to fight climate change that do not have the resources to do so.
it will provide one of the cornerstones for future sustainable economic development.
the economic, social, human and environmental damage caused by these disasters cannot be ignored.
i believe it is essential to help workers, to ensure that they have stable and sustainable jobs in the long term and to assist them in their reintegration into the labour market.
my colleagues in the committee on development also felt that sustainable development, the fight against poverty and inequality, human rights, democratic principles and the rule of law should be at the heart of the agreement.
they also called for the establishment of a collegiate acp-eu mechanism for monitoring, justification of action and review with a view to regularly monitoring the implementation of the sustainable development goals in the member states.
on the eve of 2020, it is not only a question of taking stock of what has been done but also of taking into account new global challenges such as the fight against climate change, international crime, the fight against terrorism and the migration crisis.
we must work to improve our development cooperation policy by making it more effective, more coherent, more appropriate and more sustainable.
finally, we call for the 2030 agenda for sustainable development and the sustainable development goals (sdgs) to be placed at the centre of the new agreement, and for robust monitoring mechanisms to be put in place to ensure that the implementation of the agreement contributes to the achievement and promotion of the sdgs.
you are trying to make germans or dutch out of greeks, portuguese, spaniards and soon italians too, but that is not sustainable.
so i think we should help the young people in a sustainable way by helping them to get a job.
i imagine them worried after another record year for atmospheric temperatures and, above all, after a september that is the hottest in human history - at least since records began.
knowing that an increase in international trade flows goes hand in hand with an increase in our ecological footprint, they might conclude that this treaty is definitely not the thing to do.
they could come together to make investment in the energy transition the driving force behind european integration, because they know that it is good for the climate, for our strategic independence, for our balance of payments, for our industrial competitiveness and, of course, for employment.
we have recently had a discussion in flanders about the partial chinese takeover of our energy distribution network.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
‒ it is essential that global, national, local, governmental, non-governmental and private actors take genuinely coordinated and accelerated action to combat malnutrition in order to achieve the 2030 agenda for sustainable development.
in a world of 9 billion people by 2050, including 2 billion in africa, it is imperative to combine population growth, productivity agriculture and sustainable agriculture.
‒ sustainable development goal 2 (end hunger, achieve food security, improve nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture) and its related targets aim to end hunger and malnutrition by 2030. if we want to combat this, we're going to have to focus not just on calorie intake, but a global food and agriculture approach that provides a varied diet is much more critical.
when small-scale farms use agro-ecological farming practices, they are best able to grow a diverse supply while boosting food production.
the resolution, which was initially a bit narrow, now points out - thanks to the greens - some important elements in achieving food security, in particular the availability, affordability and control of seed, the problem of land grabbing and the link between development cooperation, world trade and european energy policy.
‒ it is important that global, national, local, governmental, non-governmental and private actors, including scientific and industrial research organisations and donors, take genuinely coordinated and accelerated action to tackle malnutrition in order to achieve the 2030 agenda for sustainable development and the second sdg of eliminating hunger.
food security and nutrition need to be improved through better governance, increased accountability and rights-based, gender-sensitive and comprehensive food and nutrition policies, sustainable agriculture, the use of and access to natural resources, public water supply, public sanitation and hygiene, and the establishment and expansion of inclusive and rights-based social protection systems, with a particular focus on marginalised and most vulnerable groups.
in the eu, this means that a total of 88 million tonnes of food waste is produced every year, while 842 million people, or 12% of the world's population, suffer from hunger.
some speak of a 'fourth industrial revolution' in europe, stimulating local creativity and local production in a sustainable way.
the economic crisis has shown that the strongest industries are those that invest the most in innovation, r&d, energy efficiency, circular economy, etc.
the greens advocate a sustainable transition to a green economy with quality jobs.
we also want to make state aid conditional and to see sustainable criteria in public procurement.
it is not possible for multinationals to receive financial support and then move production to countries with lower social and environmental standards.
as the resolution rightly points out, investment in energy efficiency provides a lot of opportunities here.
such sustainable investment will lead to sustainable economic growth and consequently new jobs for our labour market.
indeed, to release political prisoners by telling them that if they campaign, they will find themselves back in prison, i don't think that's a conducive environment for open elections.
the second broad area is enhancing action and transparency before 2020, because it is essential that we clearly demonstrate that countries are swiftly putting in place ambitious climate policies, that they are gearing up to implement their ndcs and integrate their ndcs into national development planning in full coherence with sdgs?
and we have an opportunity for progress on climate finance with a ministerial event which i hope can be pragmatic and action-oriented.
i would also like to see a politically visible high level event on global climate action agenda that will inspire future action.
we already have the emission trading system, and therefore certain decisions, and we will come forward in december with an ambitious package for electricity market design, energy efficiency directives and energy performance of buildings and a renewables directive, and at the beginning of the year we will come with co2 standards for cars and light vans.
with the historically swift adoption of the paris agreement, the eu is showing its commitment to the fight against climate change.
it is a good start to get things in order internally and to ensure the eu's leadership on climate and energy transition.
we must of course do so with the necessary caution, so that we do not push our companies out of the eu, but create a framework which encourages and attracts sustainable investment.
‒ we welcome the paris climate agreement, voted this week by the european parliament, as a landmark event in the fight against climate change and for multilateralism.
we believe that this is an ambitious, balanced, equitable and legally binding agreement, that its adoption, together with the announcement by 187 parties before the end of cop21 of planned nationally determined contributions (ndcs), marks a decisive turning point in global, comprehensive and collective action, and that once implemented, this agreement and these contributions will definitively and irreversibly accelerate the transition to a climate-resilient and climate-neutral global economy.
‒ the cop 22 resolution outlines the european parliament's priorities for the next un climate conference to be held in marrakech in november.
the importance of ratifying and implementing the paris agreement on climate change is rightly emphasised.
after all, we can only fight climate change effectively with full and united efforts.
the resolution also stresses the need to reduce emissions from shipping and aviation, limit the impact of carbon leakage and exploit the potential of climate diplomacy.
the n-va wants to combine economic growth and prosperity with a low-carbon economy.
this implies making sustainable, efficient and effective choices that we can sustain for years to come and linking ambition with a sense of reality.
the explicit demand for a climate finance tax and the call for earmarking revenues from the emissions trading system are problematic in this context.
in this resolution, the european parliament sets out its position on the climate conference in marrakesh in november.
the ratification of the paris agreement has made implementation of the climate plan a priority.
this means that the binding aspects of the agreement, such as the ambition to reduce greenhouse gases to zero in the long term, the transition to a zero-carbon economy, and limiting temperature rise to 1.5°c, will be effectively implemented.
the commission is asked to come up with a long-term strategy for a zero-carbon economy.
the transition to a climate-friendly economy also creates a platform for new and sustainable employment.
this resolution rightly emphasizes the importance of forests and their capacity to mitigate climate change.
the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat climate change and to ensure that the eu's climate policy is not distorted by the threat of climate change.
the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's energy sector is not left behind in the current crisis.
‒ two days after the solemn session in which the european parliament ratified the paris agreement on climate change, the climate issue was back on the agenda this afternoon with the vote on the resolution on the marrakesh conference (cop 22).
six leading climate scientists have written a report, published by the ngo universal ecological fund, to express concern about the acceleration of global warming and the practical impossibility of meeting the paris commitment without redoubling efforts.
and that is the problem in the absence of a binding mechanism in this international treaty and without more precision on how to mobilise $100 billion annually for climate action by 2020. this means that cop22 has 'bread on the table'.
the carbon-free world is still a pipe dream, 82% of all the world's energy still comes from the combustion of oil, coal and natural gas!
‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution of 6 october 2016 on the implementation of the paris agreement and on the conference of the parties to the 2016 united nations framework convention on climate change (cop22), to be held in marrakech, morocco.
‒ we welcome the paris climate agreement, voted this week by the european parliament, as a landmark event in the fight against climate change and for multilateralism.
we believe that this is an ambitious, balanced, equitable and legally binding agreement, that its adoption, together with the announcement by 187 parties before the end of cop21 of planned nationally determined contributions (ndcs), marks a decisive turning point in global, comprehensive and collective action, and that once implemented, this agreement and these contributions will definitively and irreversibly accelerate the transition to a climate-resilient and climate-neutral global economy.
‒ global climate action must be based on sound science.
the report urges developed countries, and especially the eu, to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions drastically and more than they have so far pledged.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety recognises that the framework regulation in question constitutes a sound legal basis, the objectives of which remain relevant.
all the opportunities provided for by the legislation must be exploited: the commission has also proposed that the rules on the protection of the environment be amended to include the following: the legislation provides for the possibility of establishing european rules for 17 materials.
however, as in 2013, the areas most affected by infringements are those related to the environment, health, consumer protection, mobility and transport.
the report shows that the environment, transport, the internal market and services were the areas where most infringement cases remained pending in 2014. however, bearing in mind that parliament still has little access to information on this procedure and on ongoing cases, it seems difficult to assess to what extent the decrease in infringement procedures is really a sign of better compliance by member states with union law, rather than compromise solutions between the commission and the infringing states.
it is also clear that the (possible) use of gmos must always be within an agricultural policy that integrates the protection of human health, the environment and biodiversity, with integrated pest management being essential for the sustainable use of pesticides and non-chemical alternatives.
innovation in agriculture will focus on sustainable and efficient farming techniques and plant technology will play a special role in ensuring food production.
at the same time, this needs to be done in an efficient and sustainable manner.
it is important that those products that are developed in this regard are safe for both consumers and the environment.
innovation in agriculture will focus on sustainable and efficient farming techniques and plant technology will play a special role in ensuring food production.
at the same time, this needs to be done in an efficient and sustainable manner.
it is important that those products that are developed in this regard are safe for both consumers and the environment.
innovation in agriculture will focus on sustainable and efficient farming techniques and plant technology will play a special role in ensuring food production.
at the same time, this needs to be done in an efficient and sustainable manner.
it is important that those products that are developed in this regard are safe for both consumers and the environment.
innovation in agriculture will focus on sustainable and efficient farming techniques and plant technology will play a special role in ensuring food production.
innovation in agriculture will focus on sustainable and efficient farming techniques and plant technology will play a special role in ensuring food production.
at the same time, this needs to be done in an efficient and sustainable manner.
it is important that products developed in this regard are safe for both consumers and the environment.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
without interoperability, it's a waste of money.
i agree with open dialogues for nuclear safety and on energy diversification.
we are always against this, not least because it would be the third agency of its kind, and would result in the waste of taxpayers' money.
i strongly believe in these values and as a liberal, i believe that everyone should be treated fairly, also in the working environment.
‒ the full integration of liquefied natural gas and gas storage will make a major contribution to the goal of a crisis-proof energy union in the future.
‒ i have approved this report, which first recalls that the eu strategy for liquefied natural gas and gas storage is an element of the energy union.
the eu has the ambition to become a world leader in sustainable energy use in the long term.
it will do so in stages, including by developing a shock-resistant energy union that includes liquefied gas and gas storage.
an eu strategy for liquefied gas and its storage is also vital to reduce our energy dependence on foreign suppliers.
but natural gas remains a fossil fuel, and its use contributes to the warming of our climate.
that is why i have, with some colleagues, proposed a number of amendments to this report which place the energy challenge in the wider environmental context.
in those amendments we emphasize that the eu's energy policy must be in line with the paris environmental agreements.
the ambition is to limit global warming to 1.5°c.
by focusing on reducing demand, optimising energy efficiency and phasing out the use of fossil fuels, including gas, we are strengthening europe's climate and energy goals.
the gyürk report adopted this afternoon also underlines the importance for the union of initiating this rapid transition to a sustainable energy system.
we all know that natural gas is a fossil fuel which can emit large quantities of methane which is harmful to the ozone layer.
this is one reason, if any, to place the energy union strategy within the broader framework of the paris agreement climate goals, with a focus on reducing demand and improving energy efficiency.
as a government, i am strongly opposed to the extraction of this gas because of the harmful effects on the environment and citizens.
the delegation is convinced that lng will play a crucial role in the european energy union in the coming years.
firstly, to ensure energy security.
lng allows us to diversify our energy suppliers and is a good alternative to other conventional energy sources for less accessible regions.
secondly, the delegation wishes to emphasise the importance of lng and gas for the transition to a low-carbon society.
gas and lng, when used properly, have significant environmental benefits compared to more polluting conventional sources such as coal.
– i voted in favour of this resolution because i support the creation of an energy union and the integration of an energy policy.
i support the reduction of gas dependency and the cutting of co2 emissions.
moreover there have to be binding climate and energy targets and ukraine should become more independent from russian gas, possibly through switching to lng.
investments for lng infrastructures should be private and there should be a full implementation of the third energy package.
i agree with the eu’s more active engagement in energy diplomacy.
‒ there is a need to harmonise fisheries controls to ensure sustainable management of living marine resources and a level playing field among eu fleets.
‒ i voted in favour of this report which stresses the need to improve the networking and accessibility of transport infrastructure from, to or within the central and eastern regions of the union, taking into account the needs of the economy and the principles of sustainable development.
an ambitious investment programme based on innovation and real needs such as energy transition, mobility, employment, health or education and, finally, a harmonised taxation system in europe to combat tax evasion.
i hope that the commission will use all its energy to bring this whole matter to a conclusion as soon as possible, including the mechanism for the objective allocation of profits between the member states.
the ccctb provides a comprehensive solution to the current problem of corporate taxation in the european union and contributes to improving the business environment in our single market by making it simpler and cheaper for cross-border activities.
in the 21st century, the objective of trade agreements cannot be to maximize flows, because that is incompatible with environmental constraints.
their primary objective must be to promote the highest standards of social, environmental, health, fiscal and democratic standards.
they say we're going to have to shake up our environmental laws.
our european quality standards in the fields of social affairs, the environment and consumer protection must be protected.
‒ this report highlights that the current multiannual financial framework is constantly resource-scarce and does not take due account of the new crises and priorities that have emerged in recent years, such as the migration and refugee crises, the agricultural crisis, external emergencies, internal security measures, unemployment (especially among young people), the ratification of the climate agreement, among others.
points also to the recent ratification by the eu of the agreement on climate change.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) helps workers who have lost their jobs as a result of changes in the global trading environment (e.g.
the main need therefore is for structural reforms to enable sustainable economic growth.
however, the current regulatory framework suffers from some limitations in view of new challenges linked to globalised trade and climate change such as the more frequent arrival of new pests and the establishment of organisms that previously did not survive in europe.
i would like to stress once again the need to strengthen the major european projects under way such as the banking union, the capital union and even the energy union.
the energy, transport, telecommunications and digital sectors are particularly highlighted.
meps also called for the tax burden on labour to be reduced so as not to discourage returns to work - favouring environmental taxes.
the resolution also stresses that without sustainable investment and structural reforms, monetary policy alone will not be able to stimulate growth.
i am also concerned that economic growth in the union will be lower than the european economic forecast for spring 2016, given that euro area gdp is expected to increase by only 1,6% to reach 1,8% in 2017. the challenges facing the union are linked to the deteriorating international environment, the lack of implementation of sustainable reforms and the divergence in economic and social outcomes in different parts of the union.
we cannot deny the absence of sustainable investment and the shortcomings in the completion of the internal market which are depriving the union of its full growth potential.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because i am concerned that the eu economy will grow less than expected on the basis of the european economic spring 2016 forecast, as gdp in the euro area is expected to increase by only 1.6% to reach 1.8% in 2017. the long economic crisis in europe has made it clear that there is a great need for investment in, for example, education, innovation and research and development, and that the eu's competitiveness needs to be enhanced through sustainable structural reforms.
the artemis joint undertaking, established in december 2007 for a period of 10 years, was given the task of establishing and implementing a research programme for the development of key technologies for embedded it systems in different application areas in order to strengthen the competitiveness of the european union and sustainable development and to enable the emergence of new markets and societal applications.
on the basis of the positive development of the iter joint undertaking, in particular its encouraging results in completing all project stages on schedule and the facilities it was able to obtain from the spanish government in terms of lease and premises, i voted the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the iter joint undertaking and the development of fusion energy.
given the historical ethno-religious diversity of northern iraq, the international community will need to support the establishment of a sustainable and inclusive post-conflict structure with greater autonomy for the nineveh plain, sinjar and tal afar regions.
we support the objectives of the nuclear non-proliferation treaty, which provides a global framework for preventing the spread of nuclear weapons, promoting the safe and reliable use of civilian nuclear energy and ultimately achieving a nuclear-free world.
both a security context and a sustainable denuclearisation necessarily require a multilateral approach.
– i voted in favour of this resolution because the global security environment, and particularly that of the eu, has deteriorated considerably, becoming more fluid, more precarious and less predictable.
a supportive environment would be essential to further promote volunteering.
however, in a context of increasing socioeconomic disparities, there is a need for sustainable solutions to tackle youth unemployment and to strengthen their social inclusion.
mountainous regions, overseas regions, outermost regions, sensitive natural areas) where the maintenance of agriculture is a key factor in economic, social and environmental development, with a focus on employment.
in the context of the common agricultural policy, it is the commission's task to develop initiatives that provide a solution to the crises in agriculture and at the same time generate sustainable employment in farms.
a better distribution of cap payments to smaller farms, adapting intervention prices to cost price developments, but also shortening supply chains and promoting our excellent food quality systems and our renowned european gastronomy on the world market can create a favourable dynamic and create sustainable employment in rural areas.
solutions include short-chain initiatives, organic farming, diversification in tourism, renewable energy production or farm shops, or investments in sustainable agricultural models.
we also underline the positive effects farmers have in our rural areas, and how they create sustainable local jobs.
you rightly conclude that we need policies that lead to more employment, social justice, convergence and a positive investment climate.
– mr president, first of all i would like to thank you very much for this debate on the european semester and to recall, really, that the main aim of the european semester and the economic policy priorities which we are setting within the semester is to strengthen the eu’s economic recovery and make it more sustainable.
and all of those elements are important if we are to ensure sustainable economic recovery.
and there i would just reiterate what is said in the communication itself, and which i also outlined in the introductory statements, namely that such orientation should build on the legal framework set by the stability and growth pact and take into account broader fiscal sustainability concerns.
a question was raised on climate change objectives.
this is also reflected, for example, through our work on investment, on the european structural investment fund where 20% is now earmarked for sustainable – sustainable from an elemental point of view – development on reducing bureaucracy.
so once again, when we are working we always have to keep our mind on the main goal: to strengthen europe’s economic recovery and to make it more sustainable.
this is therefore a further step towards the responsible and sustainable management of our fisheries resources.
the restriction of this practice should promote better management of the ichthyans and better use of exploited marine resources, and ensure the sustainability of a whole part of the european economy, since the fisheries and fish processing sector employs more than 350 000 people.
the report calls for full implementation of the various legislation already adopted (mortgage credit directive, payment accounts directive, payment services directive 2, mif regulation, insurance distribution directive) and calls on the commission to take further initiatives, including a proposal for an eu savings account, and to encourage financing of sustainable and green investments.
‒ this parliament resolution calls for eu member states to step up their security and defence cooperation in the face of an increase in hybrid threats, threats to energy security, cybersecurity or terrorism, paving the way for a european defence union.
we need to implement a new approach that takes into account the profoundly changed security environment and make the union a more important player in the field of security.
however, the waterborne passenger transport sector faces multiple challenges and needs in terms of infrastructure, environment, operational processes, safety and port-city links.
i therefore welcome this report, which aims to place greater emphasis on the environmental sustainability, safety and security, quality and accessibility of services of passenger transport by water in the transport policy agenda of the union and its member states.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on exploiting the potential of passenger water transport as passenger water transport plays a key role in enhancing the sustainability and efficiency of the european transport sector.
improving the use of available capacity for passenger transport by water would reduce congestion and co2 emissions, but also improve air quality and transport services.
the development of innovative technologies based on solar and wind energy would also make ships cleaner and more economical.
while water transport is already one of the most sustainable modes of transport, it is possible to make ships cleaner and more energy-efficient through investment in research and innovative technologies, for example in solar and wind energy, shore-based electricity and alternative fuels, while applying the principle of technological neutrality.
the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's energy policy is not undermined by the threat of nuclear power.
these are based in particular on sufficient funding for development policy, which must be put at the service of poverty eradication and the promotion of the sustainable development goals.
by voting in favour of enhancing the effectiveness of development cooperation, we are once again demonstrating the importance we attach to our commitment to contribute to the achievement of the sustainable development goals (sdgs) as set out in the 2030 agenda.
this should be strengthened by mobilising more development actors who are fully capable of recognising their responsibility to improve development in an environment of peace, respect for human rights and the rule of law.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
inclusive partnership, transparency and mutual accountability are 'driving forces for achieving the sustainable development goals'.
the rapporteur believes that the success of this meeting depends on the emergence of new ideas for sustainable development and the transparency of the concrete contribution of each participant.
this expenditure is not a structural and sustainable solution that contributes to socioeconomic development.
joint european agreements are needed to tackle the deadly problem of air pollution in a structural way.
air pollution does indeed know no bounds.
about 45 percent of the air pollution in my country comes from our neighbouring countries.
mr president, air pollution is thousands of tonnes of sulphur, methane, nitrogen and fine particulate matter that are released into the atmosphere and that kill 8 million people a year (400 000 in europe alone).
the council has completely ruled out methane, where parliament has been 'sensitive' to our farmers' demands concerning ruminant emissions, which still account for a quarter of total methane emissions.
can you confirm, commissioner, that you will take immediate action to reduce this pollution by methane in other tools, which is also a greenhouse gas 23 times more warming than co2?
and that means that we must also show that leadership in our own policies, and i support what mr turmes has said on this: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the european union is not able to meet its obligations under the treaty of rome.
‒ in the light of the vw scandal and the issue of real-world emissions, air quality is more topical than ever.
air pollution has a high environmental and health impact.
the aim is to reduce the impact of air pollution on public health by about 50% by 2030, which is certainly a reasonable goal.
‒ i have approved this report which proposes to limit national emissions of certain air pollutants.
this should aim in particular at air quality levels that do not result in major adverse impacts or risks to human health and the environment.
this requires member states to commit themselves to reducing their emissions to more ambitious levels by 2030, to protecting the health of vulnerable groups or, of course, to supporting the transition to investments in clean and efficient technologies through tax incentives.
despite the fact that progress has been made in recent years in the fight against air pollution, air quality in europe is still a matter of concern.
moreover, despite some good measures, road traffic, industry, electricity generation, household emissions and the burning of fossil fuels continue to cause significant damage to the environment and to the health of citizens.
according to the latest report by the european environment agency, in 2013, particulate matter was responsible for more than 400 000 premature deaths in the european union.
because air pollution also leads to additional health care costs and poorer agricultural yields, the annual cost of this is estimated to be at least eur 330 billion.
‒ in 2015, i had already voted in favour of the european parliament's position on this directive aimed at reducing air pollution and thus improving air quality in the european union by 2030. the compromise text negotiated between parliament and the council is not perfect.
but despite this lowered ambition, i have chosen to support this revision because i am convinced that it will make important progress in public health by significantly reducing the number of premature deaths related to air pollution in the european union.
‒ 500,000 europeans die prematurely each year from air pollution-related diseases.
‒ i voted in favour because this directive should also contribute to reducing the health-related costs of air pollution in the union by improving the quality of life of eu citizens and promoting the transition to a green economy.
to protect the health of citizens and the environment, it is important to reduce emissions of mercury.
fiscal incentives can play a big role in shifting investments towards clean and efficient technologies for a more sustainable production.
i think that the different needs and difficulties in tackling air pollution have to be analysed in advance for each national geographic region.
‒ i voted in favour of this report which stresses that the security environment in europe has deteriorated significantly and that to deal with this the union needs a revised and more robust common policy based on permanent structured cooperation.
i see that the security environment in europe has deteriorated significantly and is now more volatile, more complex, more dangerous and less predictable.
all this does not take away from the fact that the n-va strongly supports integrated pest management and advocates the sustainable use of pesticides and non-chemical alternatives.
the marketing authorisation for bentazone is due to expire on 30 june 2017. this means that the commission has until then to take a decision on the basis of a complete dossier, including data on the impact of bentazone on humans, animals and the environment.
‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution calling on the commission to withdraw its draft implementing regulation to extend the approval of the active substance bentazone until 31 january 2032. the reason for my choice is simple: there is currently insufficient evidence to say that this substance may not have harmful effects on human or animal health or on groundwater or have an unacceptable impact on the environment.
the evaluation of the representative uses of the active substance bentazone is not sufficient to conclude that, for at least one of the representative uses, a plant protection product containing the active substance bentazone may not have adverse effects on human or animal health or on groundwater or have an unacceptable impact on the environment.
this could amount to eur 770 billion in a stable economic climate.
i fully support the report, however, because the investment and risk management procedures also include criteria on environmental, social and governance aspects.
without biodiversity, there will be no humanity.
gender—based violence is really at high levels, especially in the domestic environment.
a sustainable vat system could consist in extending the self-liquidation mechanism to all transactions between traders throughout europe.
‒ wildlife trafficking is an international organised crime that generates around €20 billion a year for criminals and has serious impacts on biodiversity.
together with a shared responsibility of all member states on these points, we can save different animal and plant species and ensure the preservation of our ecosystem.
without biodiversity, there will be no humanity.
but they are full of talents who need a favourable environment to develop.
this is where the regulator can and must do its job by creating the most favourable regulatory, social and fiscal environment possible.
as new information and communication technologies have now become accessible to these small transport enterprises, the sector can be fully modernised, which will not only benefit the supplier and the customer, but also have positive effects on the sustainable use of the limited capacity of our transport infrastructure.
this report strives to create the most favourable regulatory, social and fiscal environment for small transport companies, so that they too can adapt and take advantage of the opportunities offered by these new technologies.
the report was initially very market-oriented, but under the influence of the green group it has become more social, more sustainable and more environmentally friendly.
some of our additions concern a combination of cooperation models with regard to, among other things, sustainability and the environment, the need for a regulatory framework for collaborative platforms, linking up with sustainable urban mobility plans and, finally, the development of alternatives to car use.
but they are full of talents who need a favourable environment to develop.
this is where the regulator can and must do its job by creating the most favourable regulatory, social and fiscal environment possible.
i believe that any country that sets up a nuclear force must adhere to international nuclear and environmental safety criteria and principles, and that the government of belarus, which assumes full responsibility for the safety and security of nuclear installations on its territory, must fulfil its obligations both to its own people and to neighbouring countries.
i believe that any country that sets up a nuclear force must adhere to international nuclear and environmental safety criteria and principles, and that the government of belarus, which assumes full responsibility for the safety and security of nuclear installations on its territory, must fulfil its obligations both to its own people and to neighbouring countries.
today, when we should be putting all our energy towards this regional agreement, you choose to favour interim bilateral agreements such as the one with ghana.
so rather than putting our energy into outdated agreements, as they have been presented to us today, i would argue that we should not vote for this interim agreement and that we should work to make the regional agreement a success.
let's put our energy into this regional agreement, rather than kill it with an interim agreement.
the defence of human rights and the protection of the environment are among the issues on which the two partners are engaged in political dialogue.
as with other archipelagos for which visa liberalisation is now in force, this agreement should strengthen political dialogue, particularly on human rights and climate change issues.
in particular, this partnership should further strengthen political dialogue on human rights and climate change issues.
the strengthening of the partnership should benefit cooperation between the partners on key issues such as gender equality and climate change.
it also reduces several budget lines for sustainable growth.
draft amending budget no 6/2016 concerns the proposal to mobilise the european union solidarity fund in relation to the floods in germany in may and june 2016. in response to this series of major natural disasters, the commission proposed to amend the 2016 budget to provide assistance to member states in the event of a natural disaster with serious consequences for living conditions, the natural environment and the economy.
‒ the commission proposes to amend the 2016 budget by increasing article 13 06 01 'assistance to member states in the event of a major natural disaster with serious repercussions on living conditions, the natural environment and the economy' by eur 31 475 125, both in commitment appropriations and payment appropriations.
the commission has also been successful in implementing the new eu-funded programme for the environment, climate change and energy, which is the first of its kind in the world.
it also encourages its member states to optimise the use of eu funds, in particular by investing in consolidation and sustainable development for reconstruction activities.
i would stress paragraph 7 of that resolution which calls on the commission to consider excluding all investment in earthquake-resistant and sustainable reconstruction from the calculation of national deficits under the stability and growth pact.
‒ offshore oil and gas operations are likely to have major and devastating consequences for the environment and the economy of the sea and coastal areas.
accidents in offshore oil and gas operations can not only have serious consequences for the environment, the economy of the commercial fishing industry, tourism businesses, tourism businesses and coastal sectors, but also jeopardise the future of offshore oil and gas operations across the eu.
this will allow us to move towards greater responsibility not only towards our environment but also towards our economy.
in this respect, i welcome the adoption of several directives, notably on the safety of offshore oil and gas operations and environmental responsibility.
in addition, this resolution is important because it further clarifies environmental or civil liability in the event of an incident, as well as compensation and financial guarantees resulting from accidents related to offshore oil and gas operations.
‒ following the 2010 deepwater horizon incident, which was a real environmental disaster, the european parliament rightly proposes to make offshore gas and oil operators responsible for preventing and repairing the environmental damage caused by their activities.
the recognition that an accident caused by such activities can have serious consequences for both people and the environment and the process by which citizens can more easily claim damages are some of the important green points included in the report.
although the protection of the environment and public health are absolute top priorities for n-va, the report unfortunately takes the wrong approach.
the commission has also proposed that the directive be amended to include the following elements: however, there was no question of voting against the n-va. abstention is thus her signal that environmental concerns demand a central place in european and national policy-making.
‒ the effectiveness of national liability regimes for traditional pollution damage from offshore oil and gas operations, the regimes for processing claims, the availability of financial guarantee instruments and the requirements for financial guarantees are closely linked.
‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution of 1 december 2016 on the situation in the democratic republic of congo as it highlights the increasingly worrying situation in the country due to the extremely tense pre-electoral climate.
‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution which encourages the european union to take initiatives to enable people in developing countries to have access to energy, a factor that accelerates human and economic development.
the union has a responsibility to make a major contribution to reducing energy poverty in these countries and to achieving goal 7 of the un sustainable development goals.
the proposal therefore supports the provisions of the development cooperation instrument regulation as a sound basis for union development aid in the field of energy.
it also calls for better coordination of international actions to improve access to energy for the implementation of the african clean energy corridor action plan to meet half of total electricity demand by 2030.
in writing.
although africa has the greatest potential for renewable energy on the planet, it is the continent with the greatest backlog of electrification.
access to energy is an accelerator of development.
it is therefore essential that the eu, through official development assistance, and the african continent focus their efforts on energy, prior to health, education, access to water, women's empowerment, the agri-food industry... access to energy for all is a guarantee of social peace, solidarity and sustainable development.
as a sister continent to africa, the eu has a role to play in the eu-africa energy partnership.
‒ access to energy is an accelerator of development.
draw attention to the scale and severity of energy poverty in developing countries and the major contribution of the european union to efforts to address it, and underline the need for governments, civil society and other stakeholders in the countries concerned, as well as their international partners, to undertake sustained and concerted efforts to reduce energy poverty and achieve sdg 7, which requires particular efforts in remote rural areas, including energy-deprived regions.
recall that climate change strategies and trade policies need to be mutually reinforcing in order to achieve sustainable development and poverty eradication in line with the 2030 agenda and the paris agreement.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
we are very pleased with the binding energy efficiency targets.
that is feasible, that is good for climate policy, but also for employment and also for energy poverty in europe.
two, renewable energy.
the commission has therefore proposed to improve the targets for renewable energy.
it is not worthwhile to invest in renewable energy and then give priority back to fossil fuels, which are easier or more expensive to disconnect.
finally, our group is very much in favour of the initiatives proposed on energy poverty.
it is, alongside climate policy, a hugely important challenge.
the commission's proposals show that it sees where the energy and climate challenges are today.
however, whereas the committee on energy efficiency is aiming for 30%, i propose that we stick to the 27% as also agreed in the council.
we can then possibly re-evaluate in 2023. then the second element, renewable energy.
the commission thus demonstrates that it is not sensible to set nationally binding renewable energy targets within a single energy market.
and finally, as regards the plans for a new energy market model, i will see to it that the remaining market barriers are removed as far as possible.
– mr president, honourable members, let me thank all of you for your thoughts and comments on the clean energy for all european package.
they will require considerable efforts by member states to meet their international and domestic obligations, and to get them right we have assessed our proposals along several dimensions, including energy system impacts, macroeconomic impacts, environmental effects, social impacts, including affordability issues, energy-related investments, and, finally, energy system costs.
and of course our proposal fully respects the right of member states to choose their energy means as stated in article 194 of the treaties.
many of you have referred to renewable energy.
the proposal revising the renewable energy directive is ambitious and improves upon the previous directive, in particular by putting an end to retroactive measures and launching a europeanisation process.
but the measures favouring renewables go beyond this text: the market design, energy efficiency, the energy performance of buildings and the governance of the union all contribute to reaching our policy goals and targets in a cost-effective way, paving the way for further deployment of renewables in buildings, transport and industry.
it is about bringing sustainable jobs to the market, creating local added value, locking in investment potential, and fostering innovation.
for the first time; the package is proposing a clear framework on cell consumption and production, energy communities and demand response, and this will help drive the energy transition by unlocking private capital for investment in renewables and make the electricity system more flexible in order to help renewable integration.
the european union’s binding 30% energy efficiency target for 2030 is ambitious but balanced and consistent with other targets of the 2030 framework for energy and climate.
with this package we will take the decisive step forward to ensure that the energy transition will continue and that the targets agreed upon will be met.
just to complement miguel’s remark about energy poverty, i think it is very important that we clearly recognise energy poverty as an important challenge in our package.
we are addressing the energy poverty issue in our governance system.
we want to make sure that renovations, issues of social housing, and long—term innovation plans clearly factor in the issue of energy poverty.
miguel elaborated on the importance of energy efficiency and we see it as a very strong instrument in tackling energy poverty as well.
in electricity market design we are proposing a clear procedure which would prevent people from being unfairly disconnected, not to mention eco-design and energy labelling where already today our citizens are saving hundreds of euros thanks to our efficient electric appliances.
i would also like to respond to one remark and express the support of the commission for all those who are pushing for the completion of the internal energy market in a prompt and smart way.
its truly transformational nature should deliver the most significant modernisation of our energy systems since they were built in europe.
the commission is working on many fronts simultaneously to enable the transition to a clean and energy-efficient economy.
we must use the power of the union and better link our energy markets so that we can exchange renewable energy more easily.
increasing the energy efficiency target from 27% to 30% of final energy consumption is crucial.
we can do this through the new funding opportunities for better insulated buildings, better energy labels and more efficient appliances through the ecodesign regulation.
member states should rapidly introduce renewable energy for heating obligations and provide incentives for the establishment of energy cooperatives.
consumers should also receive clearer information on the share of renewable energy in their total energy consumption through their electricity bill.
the crucial simplification that member states submit one national climate and energy plan and one progress report annually, instead of the hundreds of reports now, should be the deciding factor.
i am pleased that the european fisheries policy is taking a further step towards responsible management of resources and increased protection of the marine environment, and in particular the most vulnerable ecosystems.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on fundamental rights in the eu in 2015. this text, which addresses the main challenges related to fundamental rights in the eu in 2015, notably in the areas of migration, child protection and the online environment, is parliament's response to the commission's annual report on fundamental rights in the eu.
in developing inclusive, sustainable and smart growth in europe, we are therefore well placed to fully exploit the potential of this fully-fledged sector.
in addition to market-oriented training, an attractive investment climate will have to be created and research and development and public-private cooperation will have to be financially stimulated.
in the context of a changing regulatory environment, we adopted a resolution that reviews the main themes of the digital single market strategy.
i support the partnership with education, because i believe that it can contribute to stimulating a stronger learning environment and better integrate the disadvantaged and marginalised communities.
you were talking about a european union that is a leader in climate change, but that is no longer the case.
while in 2004 the european union, which accounted for 30% of global gdp, invested more than half in renewable energy, today we still account for a fifth of global gdp, but only 17% of global renewable investment.
i do not find any trace of this, of a fairer, more sustainable and more democratic europe, in the bratislava process, which seems to be clinging to a europe of defence as the solution to all ills.
the report stresses that this accession will give ecuador the opportunity to pursue its policy of sustainable economic and social development in a difficult regional and international context.
it can pave the way for progressive social and environmental policies.
there is a broad front, from environmental organizations to farmers' organizations, that is expressly opposed to this course of action.
environmental ngos fear that accession will be a step backwards and a return to the model of depletion, which will mainly affect indigenous peoples and small farmers.
i am pleased that the agreement in question incorporates principles that are important to the new common fisheries policy, such as the landing obligation and the exploitation of stocks to achieve maximum sustainable yield.
the main need is therefore for structural reforms to be able to match sustainable economic growth.
‒ i voted in favour because the european parliament welcomes spain's decision to offer training for the acquisition of certificates of competence, such as the passenger transport certificate, as well as for sectors or areas that offer or will offer opportunities, such as the food industry, the restaurant business, occupational risk prevention, quality control and environmental standards, projects in the field of heating, ventilation and air conditioning, and the maintenance of industrial equipment.
the rail sector has undergone many changes and the regulation is no longer in line with the current legal environment and even discriminates against some companies not listed.
with this resolution, we will contribute to a more efficient, interconnected and sustainable functioning of the trans-european transport network by creating a framework for ports to improve their performance and better cope with changing transport and logistics requirements.
we tried with the greens to include measures on the environment and working conditions in the text, but almost everything was voted down, including the question of clarity on state aid.
‒ having regard to protocol no 37 on the financial consequences of the expiry of the ecsc treaty and of the research fund for coal and steel, annexed to the treaty on european union and to the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and having regard to the report of the committee on industry, research and energy of the european parliament, i voted in favour of this report, which calls on the commission to amend its proposal accordingly, in accordance with article 293 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and article 106a of the treaty establishing the european atomic energy community.
it is important to stress that the union remains the world's leading economic power, the most generous provider of humanitarian and development aid and a tenor of global multilateral diplomacy on issues such as climate change, international justice, non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and human rights.
‒ i voted in favour because the european union is facing unprecedented internal and external challenges, including interstate conflict, the collapse of states, terrorism, hybrid threats, cyber and energy security uncertainty, organised crime and climate change.
i therefore endorsed this report, which calls for a more forceful and coherent policy implementing targeted instruments at both national and union level to ensure sustainable and multifunctional agricultural production throughout the eu and fair and remunerative prices, in particular by reducing the negative effects on those most exposed to price volatility.
the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the environment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
these mainly concerned the environment, justice, the internal market and fundamental rights.