it is very important that we do everything we can to deal with the damage done to the marine environment.
because of ineffective regulation, a serious lack of foresight and impartial management, in addition to the continuous destruction of the marine environment through pollution.
the depletion of natural resources due to overfishing requires us to impose stricter environmental protection rules and to propose measures to ensure sustainability, rather than increasing quotas on the advice of experts.
the report stresses that an effective and credible competition policy must not only aim at lowering consumer prices, but also take into account the strategic interests of the european economy: the ability to innovate; investment; competitiveness and sustainability; the special conditions of competition for smes and start-ups and micro-enterprises.
it fosters a healthy environment for business in europe where companies can generate economic growth, create jobs, and invest in the future.
as a founder of the education bulgaria 2030 project, i am a keen supporter and advocate for education policies that are adjusted to today’s reality, challenges and environment.
young people must have the technical skills, entrepreneurial mind-set, language competences and confidence of course, but they need to adapt over the course of their lifetimes and achieve a sustainable school to work transition.
i believe that to achieve smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, we need to invest in education and skills, in developing talents and creating opportunities for fulfillment in life.
on the contrary, i believe that it should remain part of the agreement on sustainable development and good governance, as it will have a positive impact on its future development and in particular on the implementation of international conventions, despite the difficult economic conditions.
kosovo is in an extremely difficult situation institutions and independent regulators are highly politicized, the judicial system is not functioning properly, there is no progress in the fight against organised crime and corruption, and the economic environment and high unemployment are driving people to flee the country.
mrs mogherini, let us use the activation of article 42 (7) by france as a catalyst and lay the foundations for a strong and sustainable european defence capability, including a european intelligence service, a european army and an external border guard, so that we can meet the many external and internal threats to the european union.
so we know we have not only some values, some principles, but i would say also some interests, because defending and promoting human rights around the world is also responding to a direct interest in stability and security worldwide, because there is no possibility of a stable environment if there is no respect for human rights.
ukraine is also trying to reform its system and cope with organised crime, corruption and a difficult economic environment.
finally, it is important to place these agreements within the wider framework of strengthening our partnership, which must cover both political dialogue and priority areas ranging from employment to energy, security, conflict prevention and the fight against terrorism.
‒ i supported the report by mrs la via, because heavy metal vapour has a very negative impact on the environment.
the 1998 protocol outlines the best available techniques for reducing harmful emissions.
the aim of this protocol is to reduce and control anthropogenic emissions to air that can lead to high levels of cadmium and mercury and cause respiratory and cardiac problems and diseases.
the ratification of this protocol represents a step forward in the fight against pollution.
– long-range transport of air pollution has been recognized as an important factor affecting ecosystems and the human population.
the amendments to the 1998 protocol to the 1979 convention is an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution.
the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution, which entered into force in 1983, was the first international legally binding instrument in this field.
to date, the convention has been extended by eight protocols setting out specific measures to reduce emissions of air pollutants such as sulphur and nitrogen oxides, volatile and persistent organic compounds, heavy metals, combat acidification, eutrophication and tropospheric ozone, introduce national ceilings and reduce emissions for various substances below 1990 levels.
the amendments to the protocol are largely covered by eu legislation and will be further transposed by a new directive setting updated national ceilings for emissions of certain air pollutants.
the ratification of the amendments will be an important step towards achieving a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution.
‒ i supported the report by mrs la via on the amendments to the 1998 protocol to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution.
the 1998 protocol outlines the best available techniques for reducing harmful emissions.
its purpose is to control or eliminate emissions or losses of persistent organic pollutants.
the ratification of this protocol represents a step forward in the fight against pollution.
it is recognised that pops resist degradation under natural conditions and are associated with adverse effects on human health and the environment.
the amendments to the 1998 protocol to the 1979 convention is an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution.
i hope that this is also the case in this important aspect, namely the conservation of biodiversity.
i voted in favour of this report because it represents the european parliament's assessment of the mid-term review of the biodiversity strategy presented by the commission at the end of 2015 and is of strategic importance for the achievement of the eu's biodiversity objectives.
investments in biodiversity are socially and economically necessary and bring high added value.
the adoption of the report underlines the central place of biodiversity in a smart, sustainable and inclusive europe.
– the overall trend in biodiversity loss is alarming and urgent political measures need to be undertaken in order for the 2020 targets to be attained.
‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the application of the safeguard clause and the anti-circumvention mechanism providing for the temporary suspension of the application of the tariff preferences under the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of moldova, of the other part.
‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the implementation of the anti-circumvention mechanism providing for the temporary suspension of the tariff preferences under the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part.
i supported the resolution of the committee on the environment and public health to withdraw the draft european commission implementing decision concerning the placing on the market of foods, food ingredients and feed containing, consisting of, or produced from mst-fgø72-2 soybean.
i supported the resolution of the committee on the environment and public health to withdraw the draft european commission implementing decision concerning the placing on the market of foods, food ingredients and feed containing, consisting of, or produced from soybean the following entry is inserted after the entry for norway: scientific information shows that this soybean contributes to the expression of the dmo proteins, which confer resistance to dicamba-based herbicides, and the cp4 epsps protein, which confer resistance to glyphosate-based herbicides.
that is why i did not follow the epp line and voted for the objections proposed by the parliament's committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
i supported the resolution of the committee on the environment and public health to withdraw the draft european commission implementing decision concerning the placing on the market of foods, food ingredients and feed containing, consisting of, or produced from soybean the following entry is inserted after the entry for norway: scientific information shows that this soybean has reduced expression of the δ12 fatty acid desaturase (fad2) and palmitoyl [acyl-transfer protein] thioesterase (fatb) enzymes, resulting in an elevated oleic acid profile and a reduced linoleic acid profile, and expresses the cp4 epsps protein, which confers resistance to glyphosate-based herbicides.
‒ i voted against the objection under rule 106 on emissions from light passenger and goods vehicles.
the reason for this is that i think it would slow down the process of reducing emissions.
i believe it's our responsibility to reduce the damage we do to the environment as technology advances.
‒ i voted against the objection to the resolution calling on the commission to withdraw the draft regulation and to submit a new one by 1 april 2016 in order to introduce a genuine driving emissions test for all vehicles.
the proposed report provides an effective way to significantly reduce air pollution from diesel cars in the short term.
‒ i voted to reject the objection to new tests for real-life emissions from passenger cars, which, if adopted, would have delayed the decision to reduce car emissions by several years, given the volkswagen diesel car scandal.
i welcome the responsible decision reached at the plenary to continue the procedure for assessing emissions under real conditions and to reduce emissions of nitrogen oxides, which are currently four to five times the official limits.
this makes them particularly vulnerable to the challenges currently facing europe, such as globalisation, demographic trends, climate change, energy supply, and in particular in the southern regions, exposure to increasing migration flows.
therefore, particular emphasis in their development should be placed on transport links, intermodal transport and sustainable mobility, as well as on the development of digital capacity, which is vital to offset the disadvantages of connectivity.
they have the advantage of formulating policies and initiatives aimed at improving the lives of citizens in the areas of job creation, innovation, health, environment, energy, transport we could go on and on.
in this context, i would like to ask the european commission, through commissioner crezzo, to answer the following questions defined by the european parliament's committee on regional policy: what specific support will the european commission provide to regional and local authorities to strengthen their role in the impact and management and implementation of the european structural and investment funds for the period 2014-2020, taking into account their respective responsibilities and the specificities of individual member states with a view to creating economic growth and sustainable jobs?
colleagues, regional and local authorities are closest to citizens and have the best view of local needs, policies and initiatives to improve citizens' lives job creation, health, environment, energy, transport, etc.
these island regions are also leading tourist destinations, which also contribute to the eu's diversity in terms of both culture and the environment; they have the capacity to contribute to sustainable development with their renewable energy production potential or because of their specific location.
there are problems such as depopulation, the effects of climate change and the shifting balance between urban and non-urban communities, which directly affect local and regional authorities and institutions.
the separate national systems, where they exist, are also not linked, resulting in a fragmented environment with incomplete or missing information on the status of animals.
rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
the environment and health sector has great potential for growth, investment and job preservation.
– the publication of the annual report complements ecb efforts towards greater transparency by describing the actions that the ecb undertook in 2014. from a monetary policy perspective, the environment we faced in 2014 was very complex and demanding, for the year as a whole, we saw gdp growing by 0.9% in the euro area.
we have put a strong emphasis on educational measures to educate about food origin and healthy eating, local food chains, organic farming, sustainable production and the fight against food waste.
the commission’s proposal seeks to contribute to the goal of a more efficient, interconnected and sustainable functioning of the ten-t by creating a framework which improves the performance of ports and helps them to cope with changes in transport and logistics requirements.
my first comment: on this international women's day, the un special envoy staffan de mistura has reminded us that syrian women are an integral part of a sustainable solution.
secondly, lebanon and jordan: we must continue to support these two countries, which are key elements for the sustainable management of the migration issue.
now is the time of year when we also need to define the properties of a budget that is results-oriented so that it can take on the next big challenge without piling up unpaid bills, have simpler rules, more own revenues, certainly be more sustainable.
i believe that the renegotiation and updating of the 2003 interinstitutional agreement in line with the 'better law-making' agenda is necessary to take account of the new legislative environment created by the treaty of lisbon, to consolidate current best practices.
undoubtedly, only stable democracy provides the natural environment for the protection of human rights and peace, and therefore we cannot allow ourselves to lose it in the drc.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that international waters must be protected from encroachment and that there must be stricter controls on illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, mineral exploitation, drilling, pollution and marine litter.
i support the creation of an international instrument under the un convention on the law of the sea that will reduce the damage currently being done to the marine ecosystem by ensuring the sustainable management of marine resources in international waters.
in fact, it is our common international duty to suppress the increased pressure on the sustainability and conservation of the marine biodiversity caused by marine activities.
they will not only contribute to a more favourable economic environment across the eu, but also achieve a level playing field.
‒ ladies and gentlemen,i support the report on better regulation of the single market as it is a good basis for achieving a holistic and integrated approach that does not place undue burdens on the manufacturing sector, innovation or trade, but contributes to the creation of a sustainable market as a prerequisite for the long-term economic development of the eu and the prosperity of its citizens.
simplifying access to the single market and taking advantage of the digital revolution are key factors in achieving a competitive regulatory environment that supports jobs and business in europe.
this necessarily means that we should create a competitive regulatory environment which in practice will facilitate but not frustrate production, innovation and commerce.
in a long-term perspective, a competitive regulatory environment will bring economic growth to the eu and prosperity to its citizens
in writing.
experience-oriented education, and of course the learning and training mobility within it, incorporates inputs from the business environment to enable participants to react in a flexible way to the rapidly changing world and labour market demands.
individuals need to be motivated to engage in mobility and to take up lifelong learning through efficient and sustainable financing tools and themes.
it ensures a high level of employment and is a socially and environmentally sustainable way of fishing.
the report provides for the promotion of sustainable fisheries, as well as the improvement of fisheries management standards on the international stage and the enhancement of transparency regarding the overall size of the fisheries and the identity of the different fisheries operators.
the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the eu-azerbaijan joint action on the energy union.
nagorno-karabakh requires more than just diplomatic shuttles, because the region is already linked to the eu we have an active partnership in the fields of economy, energy and security issues.
it is clear that we are facing a changed environment today and we all need to realise that the challenges and threats facing the european union today are complex, interconnected and come from both within and beyond our common borders.
it is this particular geographical location and the possession of important energy resources that enable the countries of the region to develop close relations with europe, the usa, russia and china.
the european union must work hard with the countries of the region to deepen our cooperation, to create regional programmes, new energy routes and to provide investment for the development of central asia.
‒ i voted against the report on the eu in a changing global environment - a more connected, contested and complex world, as it reflects the european commission's intention to move towards the creation of a common european army and a common defence policy.
it is in our interest to support the european path of turkish civil society and to develop mutually beneficial relations in the economy, energy, tourism, culture, etc.
it has a very specific and demanding environment, and just as it is able to control the entry of refugees and migrants into the country, so turkey is expected to control their exit.
let me underline that a constructive and sustainable dialogue between the government and the opposition on eu-related reforms will be vital for the success of these endeavours.
member states need to use the european structural and investment funds more effectively to tackle energy poverty, expand the fund for the most deprived and develop active employment policies.
‒ i voted against this report because it creates a link between poverty and energy, in complete disregard of the other factors that need to be taken into account.
secondly, we should effectively reduce the household costs of poor households; in particular we should fight energy poverty through targeting existing renewable and energy efficiency projects on energy poor households.
in light of this, we should work to make energy affordable to all eu citizens.
overall, 24.5 % of the eu population were at risk of poverty or social exclusion in 2013. the primary aim of the report is to see how energy policies and consumer prices can have impact on poverty, especially with regard to disadvantaged groups.
the private sector has the potential to contribute to a sustainable, efficient and long—term development, because economic development is a key to eradicating poverty.
we are convinced that the eib's activities are a crucial component of the european union's efforts to restore sustainable growth and employment levels in europe, in particular through the partnership between the commission and the eib in implementing the €315 billion investment plan for europe, the juncker plan.
well, of course, the eu bank does not have quotas that is completely impossible, because we go for economically viable and sustainable projects and we observe criteria which are also ecological and of course social, and if these projects do not appear on the list of proposals, then there will not be such a programme.
an additional business volume percentage of 27% is expected to go into climate-related lending.
because it is the opportunity to grow up in a healthy, family environment that is in a child's best interest.
‒ i voted against the report on the discharge to be given to the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014. the reason for this is that i believe that all agencies and joint undertakings should provide a comprehensive account of their activities and expenditure.
‒ i voted against the report on the discharge to be given to the european environment agency in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014. the reason for this is that i believe that all agencies and joint undertakings should provide a comprehensive account of their activities and expenditure.
‒ i voted against the discharge of the european medicines agency for the implementation of the general budget of the eu because my view and that of my group is that the adoption of the discharge decision should be postponed, as it is important for us to see which european structures work effectively and do not waste the money of the european citizen, and to keep those under control who spend more money but do not do the job.
– the 2030 agenda for sustainable development, which was adopted by un member states in september, identifies icts as key enablers of growth and as an essential component of transformative solutions to meet today’s societal challenges.
the gender gap in icts has to be addressed in various dimensions of access, affordability, skills and usage, and only by closing the digital gender gap shall we be able to realise the full potential of icts as a catalytic and transformative tool for development and sustainable growth.
firstly, mountains have specific characteristics, which are due to their difficult accessibility and vulnerability to climate change.
the report therefore focuses on environmental protection and the fight against climate change.
mountains are an excellent source of all types of renewable energy - wind, solar, water and biomass.
they provide an excellent opportunity for the development of eu renewable energy policy, which can be concentrated in mountain regions.
during the preparation of my report, i saw a number of cases where dual education leads to good results, as in the mountains it is necessary to concentrate on skills and training, especially in sectors that do not lead to environmental pollution.
the commission is confident that this work will bear fruit, allowing investments to result and sustainable growth for people on the ground, which is after all our common objective to us all.
i can assure you the commission will spare no energy in these efforts.
with the loss of mountain communities, not only are the ecosystem services we all depend on being lost.
this time, the split is in the context of one of the eu's most significant initiatives for a new impetus to unite, namely the creation of a european energy union, in which solidarity and trust between the parties will achieve security and diversification of energy supplies and competitive prices in a common energy market.
is it possible today that the gas map of europe could be redrawn again by the consortium of european energy companies and gazprom involved in nord stream?
it is high time for a real openness in the european energy sector to trigger the solidarity and trust mechanism.
although fishing waters are not directly linked to southern and eastern european waters, small changes in the marine ecosystem can have dangerous consequences for fishing in our waters, i.e.
‒ i support the eu-liberia sustainable fisheries partnership agreement and the protocol on its implementation.
the conclusion of this agreement will help the eu to achieve its objectives in the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing and to implement one of the priorities of the common fisheries policy sustainable management of fisheries and aquaculture.
– every person on our planet is affected by their surroundings and environment.
‒ i supported the report on the eu's cohesion policy for mountain regions because it focuses on the development needs of mountain regions in the european union and their potential to become sources of jobs and sustainable growth.
mountain regions are crucial to achieving the eu's objectives of employment, cohesion and environmental protection through the sustainable use of their natural resources.
it highlights the opportunities that mountain areas offer for job creation, sustainable tourism and the use of renewable energy sources.
the integration of the mountain dimension into future eu programmes and policies, especially within the framework of the european structural and investment funds, is key to ensuring sustainable economic development of mountains.
i believe that the coordination of eu policies for mountain areas ensures that eu funding has a clear strategic focus on achieving sustainable and inclusive growth.
in conclusion, i support a coordinated approach to sustainable mountain development so that its enormous potential can be exploited to the full.
these areas need additional support to be able to provide long-term, not just seasonal, employment, economic development, prevention and management of natural disasters, and environmental protection.
the resolution addresses the above issues and focuses not only on agriculture and tourism as investment areas, but also on the potential for developing renewable energy based on water, wind, solar and biomass resources.
i vote for the cohesion policy in mountainous regions of the eu, to enable a more effective and productive environment for smes and other local businesses affected by environmental issues in mountainous regions.
mountains cover a significant part of the eu's territory (around 30%) and are at the heart of the protection of biodiversity and the fight against climate change.
taking into account their cultural and natural heritage, mountain areas can become engines of 'green' and sustainable growth by developing a bio-economy based on agriculture, forestry, renewable energy, tourism and crafts.
madam president, the world humanitarian summit must outline a sustainable framework for humanitarian aid, designed for over 120 million people in need around the world.
today, more than 400 million people worldwide are affected by armed conflicts, natural disasters, climate change and socioeconomic instability.
cohesion policy is part of the eu's regional policy and aims to create jobs, business competitiveness, economic growth and sustainable development.
this is precisely why we are particularly concerned today about the deterioration of the political climate, which has the potential to destabilise the country and, subsequently, the region.
it is essential to develop a comprehensive sustainable development strategy that covers all relevant internal and external eu policy areas and that will encourage all member states to commit to achieving the sdgs and to adopt appropriate national frameworks for their implementation and enforcement.
this will enhance cooperation in shaping new security strategies, addressing global crises, challenges and threats, and implementing the 2030 agenda for sustainable development.
‒ i supported the resolution because the 2030 agenda for sustainable development seeks to build on the millennium development goals and complete those goals which have not been achieved.
we recognise that eradicating poverty in all its forms and dimensions, including extreme poverty, is the greatest global challenge and an indispensable requirement for sustainable development.
therefore i vote for the agenda 2030 and sustainable development goals.
hence i believe that every child born in the eu must have the chance to grow up with a caring parent and within a stimulating environment that teaches them the importance of the european values we hold.
and don't you think that this structure duplicates other similar structures and that in fact such a debate is, to put it mildly, a waste of time?
the deepening of the global humanitarian crisis, the decline of the global economy, the growing threats of terrorism, the impact of climate change and the persistence of ethno-religious conflicts are urgent issues for which the world's leading powers must propose solutions based on concrete priorities and concrete commitments.
we all know that those e-governmental services will make our governments more efficient, more transparent, which is extremely important, but if those services are provided in a really transparent way, then this will not create the best environment for corruption for example.
– mr president, putting citizens at the heart of the energy union and tackling energy poverty deserves our full attention and thank you very much for the report.
the report is very timely because the energy transition and the new technologies are changing how the energy markets work.
however, it is a fact that retail markets for energy are not working today for consumers as they should.
consumer satisfaction and engagement in the energy market remain persistently low, and we have seen a trend of rising energy prices for end-consumers across the eu.
the new deal for energy consumers is about correcting these shortcomings.
our objective is to deliver: a competitive, technology-driven and fair energy market which delivers high-quality energy services to consumers.
we want a market where consumers can make informed choices about the way they consume energy and about the sources of energy they want to consume.
and we want a market-based framework to protect vulnerable consumers and fight energy poverty.
i am pleased to see that parliament recognises the importance of smart technologies in the energy sector.
this means that more and more consumers could reduce their energy bills by using technologies like rooftop solar panels, heat pumps or smart meters.
this is beneficial for energy efficiency and for consumers.
we must adjust our rules to the energy technologies of the 21st century.
we need more cooperatives, aggregators, and energy service companies in order to ensure access for those who are not in a position to self-generate, such as tenants and vulnerable consumers.
and finally, we need a better and informed debate about energy cost, taxes, levies and subsidies.
therefore, we will publish in the second half of this year a report on energy prices and costs that will enhance transparency on the different components of energy prices in the member states.
the cost of energy leads me to the second topic of today: energy poverty.
since 2000, the share of energy spending of the lowest income households in their total income increased from 6% to 9%, which means a 50% increase.
i know from my energy union tour and from the country analyses which we drew up, that we have a very diverse picture in europe but energy poverty is an issue everywhere.
but nevertheless, the commission is analysing if and how our work can support the member states in addressing energy poverty.
we are analysing if a definition of energy poverty is possible and how it could help address the problem.
with your support, thanks to your pilot project on fuel energy poverty, the commission is considering an energy poverty observatory.
the commission agrees that energy efficiency is the most effective way to prevent energy poverty.
it reduces greenhouse gas emissions and energy bills.
it contributes to better health and living standard, and as for all energy efficiency measures, it creates jobs in the local economy.
we have underlined the importance of energy poverty from the very beginning, and we promised in the first state of the energy union report that we would pay particular attention to the issue when reviewing key legislation in 2016. therefore, the report and the resolution which we discuss today are very timely.
i would also like to acknowledge the resolution on meeting the anti-poverty target in the light of increasing household costs which this parliament adopted on 14 april 2016. i can promise that we will examine all your recommendations on tackling energy poverty very closely.
when you talk about state-run energy, don't you think it's better for consumers in individual countries to be able to make decisions about changing their supplier through the mechanism of comparing offers rather than along the lines of socialist planned economy?
this is due to factors such as low incomes of the population and low energy efficiency of buildings on the one hand, and a lack of diversity of energy market participants on the other, which leads to high energy prices.
the need for an effective and comprehensive energy strategy is therefore more urgent than ever.
our efforts should focus on consumer rights by limiting regulated pricing, improving energy efficiency by reducing energy consumption and improving energy infrastructure, ensuring an open and competitive market as a prerequisite for reducing energy poverty.
virtual currency is something innovative, and we're probably going to have a hard time getting this payment environment regulated, but we will have to.
‒ although much of the content of this report is contained in the third energy package, i supported it because it is aimed at the end user and in particular to make it easier for him to be informed and thus to be able to obtain lower electricity prices.
of course, we have to pay a lot of attention to the energy poor, and there are many of them in bulgaria, and at the same time we do it in an orderly way so that there are no abuses.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the introduction of a new trading mechanism for energy consumers, as i believe that there is a need for increased coordination at european union level to combat energy poverty, focused on the idea that access to affordable energy is a fundamental social right.
it is necessary to promote cooperation in the area of supporting energy poor citizens by developing a set of good practices to protect the most vulnerable low-income citizens.
efforts to reduce energy consumption should not be neglected and, in line with the principle 'energy efficiency is the most important fuel', mechanisms should be put in place to reduce the number of energy-inefficient homes by 2030. i welcome the establishment of the right of citizens to produce and sell their own renewable energy as a fundamental right, and in this respect the reduction to an absolute minimum of administrative obstacles, the reduction and simplification of permitting procedures, of course while ensuring compliance with all rules and requirements.
– there is no doubt that consumers should play a more active role on the eu single energy market and benefit more from renewable energies and new technologies.
the retail energy market will become truly competitive and transparent if we manage to make it more consumer friendly.
we should deliver a new energy deal which empowers consumers in a way that they will have clear information on energy bills (prices, consumption and taxes) and protection from unfair commercial practices.
empowerment of energy consumers is also related to the notion of self-generation and consumption.
citizens should benefit in full from the advancement of green/renewable energy technologies for the home (wind turbines, solar and thermal panels) and the integration of smart home energy management systems.
the fact that we need to move away from energy creation from non-renewable resources is key considering a long-term perspective for both the wellbeing of humanity and our planet.
i therefore support the european commission’s communication on ‘new deal for energy consumers’, which is part of the ‘summer energy package’ launched in july 2015 aiming at bringing the energy union together.
there is a need to move away from a centralized, inflexible energy system to one which is more decentralized, flexible and renewables-based and it is in our interest to be able to offer the citizens of the eu a new alternative.
- mr. and mrs. president, ladies and gentlemen, the creation of a new trading mechanism for energy consumers means the development of a consumer-oriented energy market in which the problem of energy poverty must find an adequate solution.
in order to ensure that the energy efficiency of buildings is not compromised by the energy efficiency of buildings, the commission should be able to adopt a decision on the application of this regulation to the energy efficiency of buildings.
this includes mandatory reductions in energy consumption in buildings through energy efficiency improvements, which is a widely recognised effective policy across the eu and should be prioritised for energy poor citizens.
this also includes an active role for consumers in optimising consumption, for which they need to be better informed about the profile of energy consumption, about the opportunities to consume in low-cost hours and to have such services offered competitively by energy retailers.
without fair energy prices in a well-functioning competitive market, there are no good solutions to energy poverty.
the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken on the energy sector, including on the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment protection.
the fragmentation of the single market remains one of the main obstacles to achieving sustainable and structural economic growth.
we must therefore intensify our efforts to build a strategic approach to the single market that becomes a driver of sustainable development and job creation and ensures a highly competitive social market economy at a time when unemployment rates remain high.
yet the full potential of free movement of goods, services and capital has been unexploited because of ever changing environment of the market.
as we adopt the 2030 sustainable development goals, as we prepare to revise the cotonou agreement and as the european union faces an unprecedented migration crisis, it is more crucial than ever to redouble our efforts to ensure that policy coherence for development becomes a real mode of action and delivers results beyond the concept stage.
first, policy coherence for development must contribute to the establishment of the rule of law, democracy and good governance in developing countries, in order to serve the objective and the ambition of sustainable outcomes.
even the un environment programme/who report has classified endocrine disruptors as a global threat.
it is essential that this programme be integrated into all policies related to the achievement of the un millennium declaration as embodied in the un 2030 agenda for sustainable development, because the main problem at international level is the lack of coordination and inconsistency in development policies.
– investing in the development of the agriculture sector is a key step in achieving a better sustainable future.
innovation in this field must be carried out in the spirit of measures which protect and improve human, animal and plant health and the environment.
the risk-based approach model hinted at in this report is not applicable to the proven european legislative framework and i believe this is the union's strong advantage in maintaining a sustainable feed production model and maintaining standards that are beneficial for citizens and the environment.
‒ i support the report on technological solutions for sustainable agriculture in the eu.
environmental change, crop yield losses, soil quality and yields are among the main challenges that could be addressed by integrating technologies.
they need to be applied to every type of agriculture to make it more productive and sustainable.
long-term planning and financing of this sector is essential to achieve lasting improvements in the sustainability of agriculture, reductions in production costs and improvements in competitiveness.
– the european union is becoming a world leader in agricultural technology, innovation and sustainability.
actions need to be undertaken within a short period to ensure that needs of land availability, water shortage and the increasing energy demand will be met by 2050. in my work and activities as a member of the european parliament, among other initiatives, i fully support that technological solutions and innovation, which are our best chance to meet the upcoming demands.
i supported this report because i believe that sustainable use of available resources in agriculture is the key to moving in the right direction.
i am convinced that economic development and sustainable production go hand in hand.
hence, i vote in favour of the better economic development of disadvantaged regions such as mountainous and outermost regions as well as small and medium-sized farms, as this is crucial for the better implementation of a stable, sustainable future.
in the years to come, the eu will be a haven for climate refugees, who we don't talk about much yet.
we should continue to provide financial support to the philippines for poverty alleviation, disaster relief and recovery assistance, as well as for combating terrorism, human trafficking and tackling climate change.
these resources are spread throughout the vast majority of the eu member states and are concentrated in the areas of energy, research and development, transport, the digital single market and other sectors vital for the european economy.
equally important are the other two strands of the investment plan: the transparency of investment opportunities and strengthening the advisory services, as well as improving the investment environment.
it is also a clear signal that the eu is seeking to facilitate political dialogue with palau in terms of protecting the environment in relation to climate change, defending human rights, and gender equality.
visa liberalisation could send out a positive message of support for the country and the efforts it is making in terms of protecting its vulnerable environment and defending human rights and gender equality.
i share the concerns about the human rights situation there, although the situation has improved somewhat in recent years, as well as the climate of impunity in the country, which ranks very high on the global impunity index.
the resolution also encourages the philippines to continue to improve the investment climate and welcomes the 2015 agreement to open negotiations on an eu-philippines free trade agreement.
the additional aid of eur 500 million will improve the country's budget balance and create a better business climate, putting the country on the path to growth.
the objective of the loan is to bring about economic and political stabilisation in tunisia and to support the development of the country and the implementation of reforms aimed at improving the budgetary situation, ensuring stability for the balance of payments and creating a more favourable investment environment.
i take the chance to vote on favour of the mfa to the tunisian republic so that the necessary reforms are made, in order for them to achieve a sustainable balance and hopefully the ultimate goal of economic growth.
‒ there is no doubt that security environment is ever changing.
however, in recent years the security environment, both within and outside the union, has become more dangerous and challenging due to the rise of international terrorism, aggression by foreign states and development of technologies.
high-resolution earth observation data and positioning systems are a means of disaster and crisis management, including in the context of energy security and global food security.
‒ the global security environment is becoming increasingly dangerous and challenging due to terrorism and armed conflict, and this requires an adequate response by strengthening the eu's common security and defence policy.
we must not hesitate to double-use the capabilities of galileo and copernicus, and the development of the next generation of technologies must provide the capability for precise earth observation and better management and response to natural disasters, earthquakes, fires and floods, global warming, humanitarian action and military applications.
the ecj is fully committed to protecting human health and the environment and to ensuring a high level of protection for both.
even the un environment programme/who report has classified endocrine disruptors as a global threat.
the country is an important partner in the context of the union's strategy for central asia, which aims to strengthen trade and energy links between europe and the region.
as you know, madam chairman, i am responsible for iran in the delegation as well as in the energy committee.
european business is geographically and economically closest to re-establishing ties with iranian business, especially in the energy sector.
this follows verification by the international atomic energy agency (iaea) on the same date that iran had implemented the agreed nuclear-related measures as set out in the joint comprehensive plan of action (jcpoa).
the effective application of this strategy would not only allow us to devise policies advancing the social and professional fulfilment of all citizens, but also to progress further towards sustainable economic prosperity and employability.
as far as renewable energy and low carbon emissions are concerned, there are also cases like bulgaria.
on the one hand, we have long since exceeded the percentage of energy from renewable sources, and this has led to an increase in the price of electricity and the decline of a traditional industry for us - coal mining.
but countries like those in eastern europe are lagging behind in energy efficiency.
on the other hand, increasing the percentage of green energy in the mix did not solve the problem of the poorest member state of the european union, our energy dependence on russia.
but how do we strike a balance between protecting the climate and respecting the political independence of the european union from third countries?
i fully support the inclusion of energy poverty in the directive.
energy efficiency and strategic policy orientation go hand in hand.
the european neighbourhood policy enables the eu to offer its neighbours privileged relations, based on a mutual commitment to shared values such as democracy and human rights, the rule of law, good governance, market economy principles and sustainable development.
it will also contribute to the development of a sustainable and inclusive economy that reduces social and regional inequalities, creates jobs and improves people's living standards, increases productivity and ensures protection of the natural environment.
the framework agreement creates a favourable climate for economic relations between the european union and lebanon, in particular in the field of trade and investment.
moving towards greater tax transparency is essential for the sustainability of european economy and i take the chance to vote in favour and support the report as it stands.
– all species are important in an ecosystem.
– the mortality rates of cod, herring and sprat are essential to the preservation of the marine ecosystem.
the proposed agreement suggests that the fishing activities will be conducted in a sustainable way so that a balance is achieved.
the importance of teaching and mastering common basic skills such as ict, mathematics, critical thinking, foreign languages, mobility, etc., which would help young people to adapt more easily to the changing social and economic environment, is emphasised.
‒ i voted against the report on progress on renewable energy, as it calls for less participation by member states and more regulation through eu legislation.
i think it is unacceptable to say that the transition to a sustainable energy production model is a public priority that cannot be entrusted solely to the market, because we can take the example of finland, where it is the market that forces producers to promote innovation in renewable sources.
‒ i supported the report because the development of renewable energy is a key priority to the eu.
this is so because renewable energy has the capacity, on one hand, to ensure the normal functioning of the eu energy market and, on the other hand, to secure eu energy supplies.
furthermore, the development of renewable energy will facilitate rational use of europe’s energy resources, technology development, smart infrastructure, economic growth and job creation.
most importantly, the development of renewable energy will significantly decrease energy cost for europe’s citizens and businesses.
in the light of this, the eu should continue its work to reach the 2020 targets for renewable energy.
however, in order to achieve those targets the eu should promote tax cuts for renewable energy and, in particular, reform the energy taxation directive to facilitate further the shift from fossil energy to renewable energy.
furthermore, the eu should promote regional cooperation and coordination including sharing best practices among member states in order to develop the rational use of renewable energy sources.
last but not least, the eu should work to promote collective and democratic management of renewable energy with a view to ensuring a fully sovereign, efficient and clean european energy model.
‒ the the report notes that the eu is generally making good progress towards its 2020 renewable energy targets, but that further active action is needed in some member states.
ambitious renewable energy policies, combined with energy efficiency, are a key driver for reducing the eu's import dependency and overall energy import costs, and for increasing energy security vis-à-vis external suppliers.
the eu imports more than half of the energy it consumes, and the cost of these imports amounts to more than €1 billion a day (more than 50% of total imports).
the report recognises that enhanced regional cooperation in the field of renewable energy is key to ensuring the further development of renewable energy sources.
‒ i voted against the report on the implementation of the energy efficiency directive because i believe that energy efficiency should be a priority for the member states, not for the european commission, which creates an additional bureaucratic burden.
i think the market would regulate energy efficiency most favorably.
‒ ladies and gentlemen, i support the report on the implementation of the energy efficiency directive.
improving energy efficiency and achieving energy savings are key factors for protecting the environment and climate, improving the competitiveness of the economy, and creating jobs.
they also ensure the security of energy supply and the fight against energy poverty.
the investments and energy efficiency measures provided for in the energy efficiency directive will help to improve living standards by reducing fuel poverty, increasing productivity, improving safety and improving people's health.
‒ the energy efficiency directive is key directive for the eu which recognises the importance of energy saving, strengthening environmental and climate protection, facilitating economic competitiveness, promoting job creation, providing security of energy supplies and last but not least tackling energy poverty.
however, in order to fully implement the directive, the eu should promote better and smart management of energy consumption.
another important step will be further improvement of the transparency and clarity of energy bills by establishing high-level principles for bills at eu level so that key information is available to consumers in a comparable format in order to help them adjust their consumption.
ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased to support the report on a new regulation on energy labelling of household appliances and products.
the labelling policy has so far resulted in energy savings equivalent to the annual energy consumption of italy, one of the large countries of the european union.
the scale-up mechanism provided for in the regulation for existing products will allow for the transition to the new higher energy efficiency requirements for domestically produced and imported household appliances in the union within a period of five years.
i fully support the criteria for transforming the rocks with the advancement of technology and the saturation of the market with energy-efficient products of the highest class.
the enhanced requirements for consumer information and advertising material, as well as the enhanced role of market surveillance authorities in complying with the requirements of the new regulation, will contribute to the high targets for reducing energy consumption in our households.
don't waste your time with pointless and petty bureaucratic hurdles.
it is essential to use the full potential of formal and informal education, training and lifelong learning in order to integrate refugees and asylum seekers fully and in a sustainable way.
it is also important to say what the alternative would be: the creation of ghettos and of encapsulated communities that are incapable of fitting into the host environment.
‒ i voted against the report on the implementation of the 2010 european parliament recommendations on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate responsibility, as i believe that the application of conditionality in trade agreements will not immediately reduce human rights violations, but rather will have negative consequences for trade and business.
‒ i support the report on the implementation of parliament's 2010 recommendations on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate responsibility.
the benefits of efforts to improve social and environmental issues in eu trade diplomacy are already being seen.
and greater prosperity also leads to better protection of human rights, social rights and workers' rights, as well as environmental protection, which can in no way be neglected.
a stricter policy for monitoring the implementation of human rights clauses and the factors affecting trade in ecological goods needs to be established.
examples include anti-dumping policies in the renewable energy sector, intellectual property regimes, restrictive financing programmes and national environmental policies that create demand for such goods.
for this reason, i believe that the eu, and in particular each member state, should develop a strategy for sustainable economic development.
they must be transparent and guarantee eu civil, labour and social standards, as well as supporting the objectives of the '2030 agenda' for sustainable development and environmental protection.
through trade policy to promote human rights, social rights, environmental rights, democracy and rule of law.
in the meantime, the eu-azerbaijan visa facilitation and readmission agreements entered into force on 1 september 2014. azerbaijan is also an important partner for the eu in the field of energy.
however, the importance of the eu-azerbaijan relationship goes beyond energy security and the relevance of this partnership should be seen in the context of all aspects of the cooperation envisaged in the eastern partnership framework.
‒ mr president, i support the recommendation on azerbaijan's participation in union programmes, as the country is an important partner for the eu in the field of energy.
given that the importance of the eu-azerbaijan relationship is not limited to energy security, the appropriateness of this partnership should be considered in the context of all aspects of cooperation envisaged in the eastern partnership framework.
it is also important that azerbaijan is an important energy and foreign trade partner for the eu.
the partnership with the eu should boost democratisation, respect for human rights, socio-economic reforms, improvement of the business and investment climate and, in particular, strengthening the fight against corruption.
the country is on one hand part of the eastern partnership initiative and on the other an important energy partner for the eu.
azerbaijan is a strategically important energy partner for both the european union and bulgaria.
‒ i voted in favour of this file because i support the initiative to reintroduce the original a-g scale as eu energy labels.
– it is more than clear that energy efficiency labelling is useful and needed.
this is so because it will allow consumers to obtain accurate, relevant and comparable information on the energy efficiency and consumption of energy-related products.
energy efficiency labelling will allow consumers to make friendly purchasing decisions that are both good for the environment and save money.
this consequently means that in the long term energy efficiency labelling will reduce the level of the eu’s energy dependency.
importantly, in order to achieve all of these goals member states should ensure that the introduction and rescaling of labels is accompanied by educational and promotional information campaigns on energy labelling.
full coherence and synergies between all eu instruments must be ensured to achieve the common strategic objective of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
i believe that the key to achieving sustainable growth and raising living standards is a more social europe.
the eu could cope with the prolonged economic crisis by accelerating sustainable investment, implementing coherent policies and developing better policies.
– as you well know, the eu has one of the world’s highest environmental standards.
a good example of this is the natura 2000 programme which represents a network of 26 000 protected natural areas, covering almost 20% of the eu’s land mass, where sustainable human activities can coexist with rare and vulnerable species and habitats.
they constitute the necessary and concrete basis for establishing a minimum climate of confidence and appeasement with clear objectives for a real resumption of negotiations between israel and the palestinian authorities.
it also empowers our institution to present its opinion via the council to the un general assembly, not only on matters of migration, peace and security, and the fight against terrorism as mentioned above, but also on issues such as non-proliferation and disarmament, human rights, democracy and the rule of law, development, climate change, and the eu and reform of the un system.
parliament’s recommendations to the council in the report are, among others, to continue to support multilateral attempts to find lasting political and peaceful solutions to ongoing conflicts in the middle east and africa; to support the ongoing comprehensive efforts to strengthen us-un peace operations and the organisation’s ability to address conflicts; to reiterate its unequivocal condemnation of terrorism and its full support for actions aimed at the defeat and eradication of terrorist organisations such as the so-called isis/daesh; to support un efforts to prevent non-state actors and terrorist groups from developing, manufacturing, acquiring or transferring weapons of mass destruction and conventional weapons; to promote greater support for the work of the united nations refugee agency in implementing its international mandate to protect refugees; to reiterate clearly and firmly that all human rights agreed under the eu charter are universal, indivisible and independent and that respect for these rights must be enforced; to continue to advocate for freedom of religion or belief; to call for the repeal of laws criminalising blasphemy or apostasy; to serve as protection against the persecution of religious minorities or non-believers; to work towards the implementation of sustainable development goals on the 2030 agenda for sustainable development; to ensure that the eu remains at the forefront of the fight against climate change and to cooperate further with the un in this area; to ensure swift implementation of the position taken at the 2015 un climate change conference in paris; to support a comprehensive reform of the un security council on the basis of a broad consensus; to promote the revitalisation of the work of the general assembly and improve the coordination and coherence of action by the un institutions.
it has clearly highlighted the role of the european union in human rights, climate change, development and the active promotion of the rule of law and international humanitarian law.
- i voted against this file because this proposal concerns caffeine in energy drinks, which is somewhat misleading.
moreover, energy drinks account for only 1% and calories account for only 3% of the calories consumed in the average diet of eu citizens, and most of the caffeine consumed by adolescents actually comes from sources other than energy drinks.
in this connection, i believe that manufacturers of energy and sugary drinks should not advertise on their products the benefits of the caffeine they contain, as well as the presence of other harmful food ingredients.
statistics show that 68 percent of teenagers and 18 percent of children regularly consume energy drinks, and 25 percent of these teenagers drink three or more of them in one sitting.
the consumer's fundamental right to be free from manipulation of the composition of products and their direct effects on the human body is a presumption that is missing and should be addressed in the voluntary code on the marketing and labelling of energy drinks.
commissioner, the european union's heating and cooling strategy is fundamental to the impact of the community's efforts in the field of carbon reduction, renewable energy, energy independence, environmental protection and sustainable development.
the paper provides an extremely thorough analysis of energy consumption for heating and cooling and provides excellent guidance to national governments on environmental and energy efficiency policies.
on the one hand, synergies between renewable energy sources, which must be increased in relation to the use of fossil fuels, which account for 75% of primary heating and cooling energy.
on the other hand, there is a synergy between the urgent need for production and the mass adoption of energy-saving appliances, the renovation of the building stock and the application of innovation in the field of district heating and industry, which are in fact the largest consumers of energy from renewable sources.
through the implementation of the strategy, the european union will support the development of small hydropower plants, biomass processing, solar, wind, geothermal power plants, biofuels, rain, tidal and wave energy extraction and other innovative methods for recreational energy sources.
in this context, i would like to point out that cross-border and transnational cooperation has over the years produced good practices in the areas of better connectivity and accessibility, in the transfer of knowledge and innovation, in addressing environmental challenges, in increasing administrative capacity in health, education, employment and labour mobility, and in creating new partnerships.
i would like to emphasise once again that european territorial cooperation has proven its effectiveness and potential beyond the traditional framework of regional policy: in areas such as the single market, digital technologies, employment, mobility, energy, research, why not specialisation, smart specialisation in individual regions; in the field of education, culture, health, the environment.
the g20 summit took place in an extremely sensitive environment for the world and europe.
the need for more sustainable and high-quality economic growth, punitive measures against tax havens in the world, the need to invest in new technologies and take action against global warming were discussed, alongside the fight against terrorism and the international refugee crisis.
‒ research and innovation strategies for smart specialisation are particularly important in times when the eu needs to create smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in order to tackle financial and social crises across the union.
the commission has also been able to demonstrate that it is able to meet the challenges of the environment, better manage risks and respond to disasters, and to strengthen institutional capacity building and social capital, strengthen cross-border network structures and create new partnerships.
therefore, etc’s potential should be further developed beyond regional policy in areas such as the single market, the digital agenda, employment, mobility and energy, research, education, culture, health and environment.
‒ i supported the interim report on the inquiry into emissions in the automotive sector, which was drawn up by the committee of inquiry dealing with the case.
price data will be reported every six months for different consumption volumes and will cover energy prices, access charges, fees and charges and their sub-components.
the price data on gas and electricity prices are needed for monitoring the internal market for energy, and the impacts of various policies in the field of energy, such as support for renewable energy sources.
this is particularly important in the context of the energy union strategy, which obligates the commission to prepare reports about energy costs and prices every two years, starting in 2016.
mr president, i have supported this report, i consider it important.
for me, building an internal energy market is not just a matter of economic advantage and strengthening the eu internal market as such, but it is also a matter of energy security, which is particularly geopolitically important for smaller countries that were formerly under the influence of the soviet union during the communist era.
in short, the better the internal energy market, the less dependent we will be on energy from outside the eu, for example from russia, and the better able we will be to negotiate better terms with our external partners.
the advantage of this material, which is why i endorse and support it, is that it leaves it up to the individual states to choose their energy sources, including nuclear energy.
nuclear energy is not banned here, which i think is very correct and sensible.
mr president, the report we are voting on today is entitled 'towards a new concept for the energy market'.
when we talk about energy markets, especially with recommendations for better cooperation, we must not forget that geopolitical challenges across the european union vary widely.
incorporating more renewable energy is a good approach, and i strongly support it.
nevertheless, the eu's approach to defining the energy mix policy will ignore regional specificities and only disrupt the functioning of the whole structure.
i supported the report on a new energy market concept as i believe it is a successful step towards achieving and guaranteeing the eu's energy independence.
it is necessary to establish a long-term and transparent concept that includes and protects both national and european objectives and interests, striking a balance between security of supply and price sustainability.
the integrated single energy market will help overcome europe's energy dependence on russian gas and oil imports, which will provide a prerequisite for achieving and negotiating better terms with new and potential eu energy partners.
i believe that a coordinated renewable energy policy between the eu and national energy policies will promote the production and consumption of energy from renewable sources, help to integrate the energy market, reduce the prerequisites for energy poverty and promote the fight against climate change.
i have some concerns about the possibility of getting some significant short-term effects, but in the long run, this is the only viable strategy if we want to improve the system and preserve the environment, considering the resources.
more funds from the european energy efficiency and renewable energy fund should be allocated to this purpose.
this is a good way to ensure that energy is used more efficiently and to achieve a significant reduction in co2 emissions.
it is also important to create the conditions for specialised training to ensure sustainability and management capacity.
‒ i expressed my support for the report on the european union strategy for the alpine region, as i believe it provides an answer to common issues for the region, in line with the major european objectives of 'europe 2020' in the field of sustainable development, the environment and energy.
proposals for the responsible management of sustainable and competitive tourism, the diversification of tourism products and supply in order to overcome the seasonal nature and improve the quality and innovation in tourism are of key importance for the development of the alpine region.
at the same time, protecting the remarkable lake system that runs through the alpine and pre-alpine plains, preserving and restoring the biodiversity of ecosystems by providing an appropriate monitoring, information and management system for the natura 2000 network, requires sustainable nature management.
it enables the countries of the region to invest in joint projects at european, not just interregional, level and to promote the achievement of sustainable development of the alpine economy and the sustainable use of alpine resources.
it supports the diversification of tourism, stresses the importance of improving transport and energy connectivity, as well as of protecting and enhancing the biodiversity in the alpine region.
it is also essential to ensure that the eu trust fund reflects the principles of policy coherence for sustainable development and complementarity between all development stakeholders.
well-designed and implemented policies to achieve this balance should be seen as a significant improvement in the working environment, as they contribute to good working conditions and to social and occupational well-being.
today, it is crucial to complete the work of the mission without wasting time and energy on unacceptable accusations, false allegations or lies.
i am thinking in particular of conflict prevention and the effects of climate change on the movement of people.
to achieve this, we know that the education system must be able to meet the needs of the labour market, particularly in sectors with high potential such as agriculture or renewable energy.
the partnership agreement between the eu and its member states, on the one hand, and the sadc epa states, on the other, will contribute to sustainable economic growth and enhance intra-regional trade and integration.
all of this just shows us that the current system is not sustainable and it's going after the events.
the proposed resolution is an important step towards pursuing, upholding and implementing the eu's environmental policy objectives and the regulation of international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora, as well as the eu's commitments on sustainable development set out in the 2030 agenda.
trafficking in wildlife is to be considered an organised transnational crime that negatively affects biodiversity, undermines animal welfare and damages national and eu budgets.
hence i voted in favour, because promoting more competition in this sector is also important in reaching the europe 2020 goals for sustainable growth in a resource-efficient and more competitive economy.
the rapporteur stresses that in order to achieve a stable environment for business development and increase its job creation potential, national and european policies must prioritise addressing skills issues (shortages, mismatches, brain drain), regulatory uncertainty and administrative burdens, and the problem of undeclared work.
the commission considers that the measures provided for in this decision are in accordance with the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, i believe that the council of europe convention on the manipulation of sports competitions has the potential to become one of the most important, if not the most important, documents and instruments in this field.
‒ i supported the ratification of the paris agreement adopted under the un framework convention on climate change as an important step for global action against climate change.
the european parliament's consent opens the way to overcoming the double threshold and the entry into force of the paris agreement before the cop 22 climate change conference in marrakech from 7 to 18 november 2016. i believe that early ratification of the agreement is a top priority for the eu.
a situation where the agreement enters into force without the eu being a party to it should be avoided, as the eu is a global leader in climate action policies and the world's largest financial donor.
‒ today, the european parliament ratified the largest and first binding agreement of its kind against climate change.
it was a historic vote, ensuring that the paris agreement to combat climate change will be in force by the end of the year.
the agreement commits parties for the first time to take concrete measures to limit global warming to below 2°c.
europe is a global leader in the fight against climate change, and today we confirmed that.
‒ the paris agreement is a landmark achievement in the fight against climate change and in multilateral cooperation.
the establishment of a climate protection benchmark is of paramount importance.
the decision to ratify the conclusion of the paris agreement will send a strong signal and underline the leadership of the eu and its member states and their continued efforts to address climate change at international level.
implementation of the paris agreement will make a key contribution to global efforts to combat climate change and its formal entry into force is therefore a key priority for the european union.
– i supported this report, as i believe it is high time to take concrete actions to combat climate change.
the paris agreement is a global milestone for enhancing global collective action and accelerating the global transformation to a low-carbon and climate resilient society.
the quick ratification decision by the eu on the conclusion of the paris agreement adopted under the unfccc will send a strong signal and highlight the leadership of the eu and its member states and their continuing efforts to address climate change at international level.
‒ ladies and gentlemen, today, in the presence of the un secretary-general, we adopted a resolution on the eu's ratification of the paris climate agreement - a historic act, because the conditions for the agreement's entry into force will be met.
it has been ratified by 63 parties to the unfccc (at least 55 if required) and accounts for around 52% of global greenhouse gas emissions (55% if required).
this is clear evidence that the world is ripe for global action to combat climate change, whether it's in developed or developing countries.
i would remind you that in paris, the countries agreed to limit warming to 2°c, set a target of even 1.5°c, and in the second half of this century, strike a balance between anthropogenic emissions of greenhouse gases and their reabsorption by the earth and the seas.
last but not least, it will create a good environment for the development of relations between china and europe.
the resolution also calls for the fight against fraud, corruption, poverty and inequality to be eradicated and for the principle of developing country ownership of sustainable development initiatives and projects to be translated into a donor-recipient mentality.
i call for the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals (sdgs) to be placed at the centre of the new agreement, and for strong monitoring mechanisms to be established to ensure that the implementation of the agreement contributes to and promotes the sdgs.
i believe that cooperation should be in areas of common interest where mutual benefits can be expected, not only in economic terms, but also in terms of peace and security, human rights and the rule of law, good governance and democracy, migration, the environment, climate change and other areas related to the well-being of the acp and eu populations.
looking from this perspective, it could be argued that acp-eu cooperation is a valuable and unique achievement that has strengthened not only bonds between acp and eu peoples and countries but also has raised public awareness of development issues (promotion of sustainable development, eradication of poverty and inequalities).
however, in order to improve the effectiveness of acp-eu cooperation and to address new global challenges such as climate change, poverty, inequalities, migration, peace and security, a new structure (agreement) should be adopted that maintains partnership and relations with the acp countries after 2020. the new agreement should primarily be a political project based on the principle of ownership and clearly leave behind the donor-recipient mentality.
the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals (sdgs) would be placed at the centre of the new partnership in order to achieve better results when addressing global challenges.
only in this way will small producers and farmers and civil society be provided with a favourable environment for development and access to quality financing.
in this regard, a framework needs to be established for implementing the new agenda 2030 and achieving the objectives of sustainable development.
in recent years, a number of temporary camps have been set up across europe, and their existence is a clear sign that we cannot find a sustainable solution to the migratory waves.
however, i have voted against some additions because they are not in line with the overall aim to increase the productivity of smallholders and achieve sustainable agriculture and food systems that are capable of feeding an expected global population of 8.5 billion people, in particular because it calls on the commission to increase investments on nutrition-specific interventions.
‒ i supported the resolution on the next steps to achieve the eu's global goals and commitments on food and food security in the world, as this is one of the main and most important goals of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development.
making agriculture sustainable, increasing funding for farmers in less developed regions and using innovation in this area will boost productivity and help tackle the food problem.
as the world population continues to grow, much more effort and innovation will be urgently needed in order to sustainably increase agricultural production, improve the global supply chain, decrease food losses and waste, and ensure that all who are suffering from hunger and malnutrition have access to nutritious food.
therefore, the eu should continue to support and invest in smallholder farmers to boost food production, achieve nutrition security and sustainable agriculture.
i support the idea of reinvesting in local food production, targeting in particular small-scale food producers and agro-environmental practices, and i believe this is a key condition for the success of food strategies.
eradicating hunger and malnutrition is a long-term commitment of the eu, which has the ambition to be a global leader on the path towards the achievement of sustainable development goal 2 of the agenda 2030 (ending hunger by 2030).
importantly, reindustrialisation of europe should be based on digitalisation (in particular the integration of smart technologies and robotics into industrial value chains), sustainability, energy efficiency and adequate resources.
i share the view that rail transport is a strong and innovative sector that not only creates many jobs but is also environmentally friendly and fully compatible with the eu's climate and energy objectives.
thanks to eu ratification, there are no longer any obstacles to the entry into force of the paris agreement in time for the cop 22 climate change conference in marrakech from 7 to 18 november 2016. the agreement marks a truly historic breakthrough in international climate negotiations, because for the first time all 195 countries have agreed to a legally binding target to reduce emissions to a level that will keep global warming below 2°c.
the eu is a leader in climate policy and the largest financial donor globally, but we cannot tackle this global problem alone.
it is also important that ambitious carbon reduction targets do not lead to an increase in our dependence on imported energy sources.
it is important to move now to implement collective global commitments to accelerate the transition to a low-carbon and climate-resilient global economy.
in 2014, the environment and transport remained among the areas where the highest number of new infringement proceedings were brought.
in this complex international environment, the eu must use all its diplomatic and humanitarian resources to prevent the human horror in aleppo, where more than 250,000 people are suffering surrounded by the forces of bashar al-assad and hezbollah.
overall, i support some of the points it addresses, such as the need to ratify the paris accord, the emerging role of international ets and the limiting of the harmful effects of carbon leakage.
– it is pleasing that the ep is ratifying the unfcc paris agreement (cop21) on fighting climate change, the first ever universal, legally binding global climate deal.
thus, the eu will join the us, china and india, other global players and major greenhouse gas emitters at 2016 un climate change conference in marrakesh, morocco (cop22).
the climate change is a key priority for the eu.
in fact, the eu is working hard to cut greenhouse gas emissions substantially while encouraging other nations and regions to do likewise.
the eu’s continued focus on climate diplomacy shows the eu’s capacity to support the implementation of cop21 commitments, but also emphasises eu’s ability to influence cop22.
in this regard, on 2016 un climate change conference in marrakesh the eu should push the international community (parties to the paris agreement) to adopt without delay concrete measures, including a timetable, environmentally or economically harmful subsidies, for reduction of fossil fuels.
in this context, the eu should insist from the international community an increase in the contribution of renewable energy to all energy consumption.
this painful example from my country and thousands of others around the world shows that global warming is real and it's high time for measures and actions that will prevent or at least mitigate climate change.
the eu's target of reducing emissions by 80-95% by 2050 compared to 1990 levels is ambitious, but it should not become a filter for even more stringent requirements for the european farmer and producer.
– i voted in favour of this resolution as it aims to define the position of the european parliament in view of the cop22 climate conference in november 2016 in marrakesh.
the resolution addresses important issues such as the urgency to ratify and implement the paris agreement, the pre-2020 ambition and the kyoto protocol, the priority negotiation points in cop22, the role of non-state actors, the comprehensive effort of all sectors, the reduction of non-co2 emissions, climate finance, climate resilience through adaptation, and climate diplomacy, among other issues overall, the resolution welcomes the paris climate agreement as a landmark achievement for combating climate change and for multilateralism.
the adoption of uniform measures on food quality will help to protect the environment and the proper functioning of the internal market.
the report shows that the environment, transport and the internal market and services are the policy areas for which the highest number of infringement proceedings were initiated in 2014. it is also stressed that the number of formal infringement proceedings has decreased over the last five years.
although the number of proceedings decreased in 2014, underlining the effectiveness of the eu pilot procedure, the areas where the application of eu law remains problematic are environment, transport and internal market and services.
i supported this resolution, initiated by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, because i believe that without an effective control mechanism within the internal market which can ensure that products which are banned for cultivation in a member state do not present a danger and do not contravene that ban or pose a risk of infringement, the authorisation of the placing on the market of seeds from that banned crop cannot and should not be granted.
i supported this resolution, initiated by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, because i believe that without an effective control mechanism within the internal market which can ensure that products which are banned for cultivation in a member state do not present a danger and do not contravene that ban or pose a risk of infringement, the authorisation of the placing on the market of seeds from that banned crop cannot and should not be granted.
i supported this resolution, initiated by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, because i believe that without an effective control mechanism within the internal market which can ensure that products which are banned for cultivation in a member state do not present a danger and do not contravene that ban or pose a risk of infringement, the authorisation of the placing on the market of seeds from that banned crop cannot and should not be granted.
i supported this resolution, initiated by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, because i believe that without an effective control mechanism within the internal market which can ensure that products which are banned for cultivation in a member state do not present a danger and do not contravene that ban or pose a risk of infringement, the authorisation of the placing on the market of seeds from that banned crop cannot and should not be granted.
i supported this resolution, initiated by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, because i believe that without an effective control mechanism within the internal market which can ensure that products which are banned for cultivation in a member state do not present a danger and do not contravene that ban or pose a risk of infringement, the authorisation of the placing on the market of seeds from that banned crop cannot and should not be granted.
from this debate i conclude that we all share a common interest in ensuring that the joint comprehensive plan of action works for all sides and ultimately that balanced bilateral relations can lead to iran’s reintegration into the international community, politically, economically and socially, as well as to building a more constructive real environment.
‒ a key objective of european rail policy is to establish a fast, safe, secure and energy-efficient transport system that is comfortable for passengers and provides good conditions for the development of a european industry that creates jobs and economic prosperity.
in addition, the country should focus on reforms by liberalising its economy and improving the business climate in the country.
the adopted regulation creates a realistic environment to prevent organised crime and corruption from entering the legal economy and calls for the introduction of a comprehensive eu-wide 'electronic public procurement' system to reduce the risk of corruption in public procurement.
‒ the eu strategy on liquefied natural gas and its storage has a significant role to play in achieving the ultimate goal of a european energy union.
the eu and eastern europe in particular need diversification of energy supplies, and this can be achieved through better coordination of national energy policies and the creation of an energy union with a single energy market and a common external policy.
‒ the eu is the largest energy importer in the world, importing more than half (54%) of the energy it consumes.
therefore, the establishment of an energy union is an important step on the road to achieve energy security through diversification of energy sources and energy routes to europe.
in a long term perspective, the establishment of the energy union will ensure that all eu citizens have secure, equal and affordable energy supply.
in this context, the current developments on global liquefied natural gas (lng) markets present a major opportunity for the eu to deliver lower energy costs, security and resilience to eu consumers.
lng is a particularly important element for the establishment of the energy union and will contribute significantly towards ending any kind of energy isolation or dependence of the eu member states and eu regions.
‒ natural gas will play an important role, at least for the next few decades, for eu energy and industry, the integration of renewables and the shift towards a low-carbon economy based on clean energy sources.
the eu's dependence on natural gas imports is growing and alternative sources and supply routes are needed to ensure energy security.
in the field of transport, without natural gas, it is unlikely that an environmental breakthrough will be made.
this requires a strategic approach to lng and gas storage as an element of our security, competitiveness and manageability of our energy dependence.
i also support the strong texts relating to the potential of liquefied gas as an alternative fuel for land and water transport, which can easily contribute to reducing harmful emissions from transport.
the importance of ensuring effective control of fishing activities in order to ensure the sustainable exploitation of living marine resources and to maintain a level playing field should be emphasised.
‒ european fishermen have the greatest stake in the sustainable management of living marine resources in the seas and oceans, whose reproduction is threatened by current overfishing conditions.
thirdly, member states in central and eastern europe should improve connections between different transport modes in order to reduce prices for passenger and freight transport and to take into account ecological and social concerns.
finally, it is also important to note that rail transport is one of the most environmentally friendly modes of transport and its development must accompany any economy that seeks to be sustainable.
there is also significant potential for further developing shipping to the maritime ports in the baltic and black seas, not least in the energy sector.
s&ds) i supported the resolution because i believe that the mid-term review of the mff is an opportunity to ensure a sustainable budget for the european union, both for long-term priorities and for emerging challenges.
‒ i supported the proposal for a regulation on protective measures against plant pests, as their health is a key factor for sustainable and competitive agriculture, horticulture and forestry.
the adopted legislation aims to protect european agriculture and forestry by preventing the introduction and spread of alien pests, also taking into account invasive alien species, under the mechanism provided for in the eu biodiversity strategy.
i disagree with the fact, that low public demand and a deteriorating international environment are the key challenges for the economic recovery of the european union.
‒ unfortunately, eu economy will grow less than expected on the basis of the european economic spring forecast 2016, as gdp in the eurozone is expected to increase by only 1.6%, reaching 1.8% by 2017. the slow economic growth highlights that the eu and some of its member states continue to struggle with the implementation of sustainable reforms.
furthermore, the slow economic growth signals that eu economy lacks cohesion, productivity, competitiveness, sustainable investments and that it suffers from too high unemployment rates.
strengthening the mandate of the international atomic energy agency and including non-proliferation clauses in the european union's treaties with third countries are steps in the right direction.
the security environment in the european union's neighbouring countries has deteriorated significantly and this increasingly calls for us to strive for a world without nuclear weapons.
gaining experience, adapting to the new environment and sharing good practices is certainly beneficial for all of us.
i believe that such a law would undoubtedly contribute to creating a favourable environment for voluntary activities, to improving their quality and to giving them the recognition they deserve.
another great value of volunteering is that it brings people together, uniting people from diverse backgrounds to work towards a common goal and benefit our community, addressing human, social and environmental needs and concerns.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, i truly believe that investment today in skills development, encouraging and supporting participation in community-building and confidence, and also the resilience of young people, will have a long and lasting effect on the future shape of the eu, its sustainable development and competitiveness.
‒ the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons aims to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons and technologies and to promote cooperation in the peaceful uses of nuclear energy and in the pursuit of general and complete nuclear disarmament.
– i have voted in favour of this resolution because i am concerned about the deteriorating security environment around the eu and beyond its neighbourhood and the atrocious humanitarian impact of nuclear weapons.
i do not think that we should ask member states to define a legal environment for volunteering, because each of them should decide for itself whether to do so or not, but since the word 'encourages' is used in the resolution, i felt that this resolution should be supported, which can only reinforce the affirmation of the importance of volunteering.
it will have an impact on food quality and indirectly on production and environmental standards.
they aim to reduce catches of cod and to limit discards to the sea, while maintaining sustainable catch levels of the target species.
in a long term perspective, such a link between green paper and digitalisation could foster job creation, sustainable growth, financial stability and the role of the consumer in the european economy.
‒ i supported the resolution because nowadays the eu and the member states face many complex and interconnected security threats such as terrorism, violation of international law by third countries, energy insecurity, cyber attacks and hybrid warfare.
‒ i supported the resolution on unlocking the potential of passenger transport by water, as waterborne passenger transport, including sea ferries, river ferries, barges and cruise ships, plays a key role in achieving a more sustainable and efficient european transport sector.
more efficient use of available waterborne passenger transport capacity can not only help reduce congestion and co2 emissions, but can also improve air quality and provide better transport services overall.
there are many areas in europe where water travel would be more sustainable, easier and faster, thus increasing the social and economic well-being of the region, while protecting the environment and the health of european citizens.
looking from this perspective, i supported the resolution because the wpt sector is sustainable and efficient mode of transport for eu citizens.
importantly, we should support the wpt sector by making policies that address safety, environmental standards, cross-border cooperation and competitiveness as well as service quality, passenger rights and barrier-free accessibility.
first, they help to reduce congestion in large river-side cities, improving their environmental performance and increasing their comfort and quality of life.
– waterborne passenger transport, including maritime ferries, inland ferries, barges and cruises, plays a crucial role in achieving a more sustainable and efficient european transport sector, assisted by policies that address safety, environmental standards, cross-border cooperation and competitiveness as well as service quality, passenger rights and barrier-free accessibility.
i voted in favour of this excellent report, which contributes to a clear and precise positioning of the european union in the process of implementing the 2030 agenda and achieving the sustainable development goals.
the eu is a major financial donor in support of the development of countries in financial difficulty, and a key factor in the fight to eradicate poverty by 2030. i welcome the idea of a global partnership and the joint setting of sustainable development priorities and the effectiveness of development cooperation between international donors, national governments, the private sector and civil society.
the main commitment of these countries is to pursue a transparent and targeted policy to achieve the 2030 agenda's sustainable development goals.
in fact, this is necessary because aid and development effectiveness can play a crucial role in implementation of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development and the achievement of the sdgs.
development assistance and cooperation are necessary but insufficient factors for effectively eradicating poverty and promoting the sustainable development goals.
i voted in favour of this report because it reaffirms the importance of official development aid and sustainable financing for development, while promoting an approach that goes beyond aid and aid-providing agendas.
the inclusiveness of the process is essential for a sustainable political solution.
one thing is clear: turkey will always remain a close partner in all areas: trade, migration, foreign and security policy, energy.
i support the compromise reached with the council on the new directive, which sets ambitious targets for reducing air pollution by 2030. recent attention has focused on greenhouse gas emissions, and this has led to a slowdown in the reduction of other pollutants that have serious impacts on human health and the environment.
for example, the growth of diesel cars due to lower co2 emissions has led to an increase in harmful nitrogen oxides from them.
the new legislation must restore confidence in emissions reductions with its ambitious targets and sound control mechanisms.
the directive is particularly valuable in its concern for agriculture and its specificity for response, even though the sector is responsible for most of the ammonia and methane emissions.
‒ i supported the agreement reached on reducing national emissions of certain air pollutants, as i believe that new concrete targets are needed to reduce air pollution, which is a major problem for both the environment and human health.
i support the new national targets set for reducing emissions of five major air pollutants by 2030 and the specific commitments provided in the report to adopt national control programmes.
the eu is a major player in the fight against climate change, partly caused by air and environmental pollution.
‒ after years of political neglect, air pollution has become the single largest environmental cause of premature death in urban europe, productivity loss, crop yield loss and damage to buildings.
over the last couple of decades, emission reductions have led to improvements in air quality in europe, but not enough to avoid an unacceptable 400 000 premature deaths in europe and growing damage to environment.
i supported the resolution because the growing air pollution represents a real health threat to the eu, its member states and citizens.
i call particularly on member states to adopt and implement national air pollution control programmes with a view to meeting their emission reduction requirements and to contributing effectively to the achievement of the union air quality objectives.
most importantly, in order to reduce emissions from the main contributors, national air pollution control programmes should include measures applicable to all relevant sectors, including agriculture, industry, road transport, non-road mobile machinery, inland and domestic shipping, domestic heating and solvents.
‒ i supported the resolution on the finalisation of basel iii because i believe it is our duty to ensure a sustainable and well-capitalised banking system.
mr president, unfortunately nowadays the eu and its member states live in a more dangerous and less predictable security environment.
‒ in the face of a radically changed international environment, the eu needs a new approach and a new security strategy.
the report underlines that europe is no longer in full control of its security environment and calls on the eu to adapt to new challenges by making more effective use of existing csdp tools.
– the european security environment is deteriorating considerably, and the eu need to find ways to react to an arc of increasingly complex crises in its neighbourhoods.
accessibility should not be limited to the physical accessibility of the environment but should also refer to the accessibility of information and communication, including in the form of the provision of sign language content.
a sustainable pension system shall include a wide range of products, a diversity of institutions, and effective and efficient supervisory practices, which are duly referred to in this directive.
i support the introduction of a single european vat area, which should underpin a deeper and fairer single market and contribute to the promotion of tax fairness, sustainable consumption, employment, growth, investment and competitiveness, while limiting the potential for vat fraud.
vat fraud also leads to a loss of revenue for member states and therefore for the eu, creating a distorted fiscal environment that is particularly harmful to small and medium-sized enterprises.
i believe that the action plan is an important step towards the eu's objectives and policies relating to environmental protection and the regulation of international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora.
it will also help to achieve the objectives adopted under cites and the eu's commitments to sustainable development in the 2030 agenda.
much of the illicit trade is carried out by illegal groups, which finance their illegal activities, threaten the biodiversity of protected species of flora and fauna and damage the eu budget.
it is here that the legislator can and must fulfil its mission by creating the most favourable regulatory, social and tax environment possible.
the ongoing construction of a nuclear power plant in ostrovets, grodno region, financed by russia and using russian technology, which will lead to further dependence of belarus on russia in terms of energy security, is of concern.
‒ i voted in favour of the ghana-eu interim economic partnership agreement (iepa) because it will give both partners practical tools to strengthen capacity in fiscal reforms, improving business climate, competitiveness, trade facilitation and customs co-operation.
last but not least, i would like to remind the commission and italian national and regional authorities that sustainable reconstruction efforts need to be properly coordinated in order to fully overcome the economic and social losses from the earthquakes.
‒ the european parliament's legal affairs committee recently had to analyse the alleged conflict of interest of the european commissioner for climate and energy, miguel arias cañete.
calls on the commission to include major oil accidents in the environmental crime directive (osd); it also proposes the creation of a fund based on fees paid by the offshore industry, with a request for a possible assessment by the commission.
in view of the liability systems available in member states, it appears there is a crucial issue as to whether the majority of civil claims from accidents resulting in widespread pollution damage will be met by the current legislative or non-legislative and ad hoc or judicial regimes in place in these states.
‒ i voted for the resolution on access to energy in developing countries, as it draws attention to the growing energy poverty in these regions and underlines the eu's leading role in tackling this problem.
it underlines the great potential of renewable energy in africa in terms of wind and solar power generation to provide access to energy for all, especially in rural areas, and calls on the eu and its member states to provide support and technical assistance in the implementation of the action plan of the african clean energy corridor initiative, which aims to meet half of total electricity consumption from clean, local, cost-effective renewable sources by 2030 to achieve carbon dioxide emissions reductions.
– access to reliable and safe energy is crucial for the satisfaction of basic human needs and rights, a key driver of development and a must for modernity.
unfortunately, nowadays 1.2 billion people lack access to electricity, half of those without access to electricity live in africa; this number is growing, since the population on this continent is increasing at a faster pace than that at which access to energy is being extended.
i supported the commission’s ‘energising development’ initiative, which aims to provide access to sustainable energy for an additional 500 million people in developing countries by 2030 through programme elements such as the creation of a technical assistance facility, drawing upon eu experts to develop technical expertise in developing countries, and to promote capacity building and technology transfer.
in my opinion, the ‘energising development’ initiative must be fully aligned with the eu development policy and it should urge the eu and its member states to facilitate technology transfer (renewable energy resources) in developing states, in africa particularly.
– the main objective of this resolution is to take stock of the energy poverty in developing countries by emphasising the large number of people who lack access to electricity.
i also believe this resolution also pays attention to respect on climate change in achieving global access.
europe must deliver to business and to citizens clean energy at a fair price.
i welcome the proposed ‘clean energy for all’ package and i believe we must be even more ambitious if we are to be at the forefront of the low-carbon economy.
i call on the two co-legislators to ensure the swift negotiation and implementation of the proposals; only in this way will we deliver security of the energy supply.
by making the energy market more flexible, i believe it will bring about more resilience and adaptability of the energy sector.
europe must work towards greater fairness of the cost of energy in order to increase consumers’ trust.
ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate the commission for presenting a comprehensive legislative package for the european energy union in just two years.
the current clean energy for all europeans package outlines the future of european energy by 2030 in both an ambitious and achievable way.
energy efficiency is put at the forefront as a universal means of reducing energy consumption, energy dependence, energy poverty and harmful greenhouse gas emissions.
the proposed 30% energy saving target by 2030 will allow the current pace of energy efficiency improvements to be maintained.
the package adopts the principle of technology neutrality in energy support policies, which provides the necessary flexibility for member states to seek the most cost-effective solutions to meet the targets of reducing greenhouse gas emissions and ensuring a reliable supply of clean and affordable energy, including from nuclear sources.
i welcome the reduction of the super-privileges for renewable energy.
after their technological development and entry into the energy sector, it is time to move to market mechanisms of their participation in the energy supply.
the prospect of a declining role for fossil fuels in energy is also clear, but setting the unenforceable 550 gco2/kwh emissions target for new coal plants is effectively a cessation of investment in new capacity on existing coal technologies.
‒ i voted in favour because it is our moral duty to reduce the destructive impact on the marine ecosystem that has been caused by the use of bottom trawls in international waters.
in the context of this complex international environment, i find the actions taken by the european union to protect human rights and democracy to be successful and adequate.
madam president, nowadays the european union faces unprecedented internal and external challenges including conflict zones, state collapse, terrorism, hybrid states, cyber- and energy insecurity.
this volatility can be caused by a combination of the economic and natural factors and can be intensified by the broad political and legislative environment and speculation on agricultural products.
secondly, improving synergies between the cap and other eu policies, in particular regarding energy, water supply, land use, biodiversity and ecosystems, as well as development of remote and mountainous areas.
two remarks in this context: it is crucial that the economic environment is improved for the plan to work.
last but not least, i call on both the eu and uzbek authorities to work together on diversification of uzbek economy, which could gradually alleviate the disastrous environmental situation with regard, in particular, to what is left of the aral sea and its tributaries.
it is important to note that the agreement contains a trade and sustainable development charter, which includes ambitious provisions on labour and environmental protection and aims to ensure predictable and stable environmental conditions for investors on both sides.
we must support the railway sector as it is the environmental friendly means of transportation of passengers and cargo as well as being of strategic importance for the eu’s security.
the modernisation of rail transport has enormous added value for both citizens and businesses in countries in the bulgaria region, because it will make travel faster, cheaper and more sustainable.
‒ i supported the european commission's proposal for a framework for market access to port services and financial transparency of ports, as it aims to contribute to the objective of more efficient, interconnected and sustainable operation of trans-european transport networks by creating a framework that improves the performance of ports and helps them to cope with changing transport and logistics requirements.
in this context, the commission’s proposal on the trans-european transport network (ten-t) seeks to contribute to the goal of more efficient, interconnected and sustainable functioning of eu ports by creating a framework which improves the performance of ports and helps them to cope with changes in transport and logistics requirements.
the fund is currently managed by the european commission and has some €50 million available for development and research in sectors such as steel and coal mining, environmental improvement and safety at work.
rfcs brings together industrial partners, smes, leading research centres and universities from across the eu to develop knowledge and foster innovation in the sector with regard to production processes, utilisation and conservation of resources, environmental improvements and safety.
the research fund brings together industrial enterprises, smes, leading research centres and universities across the european union, both to develop knowledge and stimulate innovation in the sector and to research production processes, the use and protection of resources and the environment and safety in the workplace in these sectors.
i do not think that the time has come yet for us to stop research into steel and coal in an attempt to shut down coal as an energy resource altogether.
in its holistic approach to finding sustainable, long-term and coherent solutions, based on international human rights standards, it highlights the importance of differentiating between refugees and migrants.
‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of a resolution on the implementation of the common foreign and security policy, as i believe that the european union is facing unprecedented internal and external challenges, including interstate conflicts, state breakdown, terrorism, hybrid threats, cyber and energy insecurity, organised crime and climate change.
it remains the world's most significant economic power, the world's largest donor of humanitarian and development aid, and a leader in global diplomacy on issues such as climate change, international justice, non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and human rights.
geopolitical decisions, climate change and rising equipment prices are just some of the factors affecting the volatility of the sector in europe.
the eu's food security and the development of a competitive and sustainable agricultural sector that meets the needs of european citizens should be a strategic objective that cannot be achieved without ensuring stable incomes for farmers.
‒ colleagues, the deteriorating climate, droughts, floods, pests and whatnot are having an adverse impact on the level of harvest and the stability of production prices.
farmers face increasing production costs and mounting debts, while sustainable agriculture as a source of livelihood can only be guaranteed if purchase prices cover all production costs.
the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection.