the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one.
the commission will continue to support the development of the european union's policy on the environment, and will continue to support the development of the european union's policy on the environment.
we support the report and stress that competition policy can contribute to the objectives of the employment and growth agenda, including in areas such as the digital internal market, energy policy, financial services, industrial policy and the fight against tax evasion.
the digital single market strategy is structured around three pillars: (1) access: better access for consumers and businesses to digital products and services across europe, (2) environment: creating appropriate conditions and a level playing field for the development of digital networks and innovative services, (3) economy and society: maximising the growth potential of the digital economy.
as regards the energy union, we expect some of the positions expressed in the european parliament's report to be implemented, in particular the promotion of measures to combat energy poverty and the exploitation of the gas resources of the eastern mediterranean to strengthen the union's energy security.
this directive is an example of harmonisation of union legislation to ensure the free movement of gas appliances and has contributed significantly to the completion and functioning of the single market by harmonising the conditions for the placing on the market and/or putting into service of gas appliances falling within its scope in relation to risks to gas safety and the rational use of energy.
‒ the the eu has granted trade preferences to developing countries through the generalised system of preferences (gsp) since 1971. the gsp supports these countries in their efforts to assume the specific burdens and responsibilities arising from the ratification of 27 international conventions on human and labour rights, environmental protection and good governance, and from the effective implementation of these conventions.
the committee will investigate violations of european regulations by car manufacturers in relation to the measurement of pollutant emissions, as well as any violations by member states and the european commission in the implementation of european standards.
‒ the scandal of falsified emissions data in the automotive industry is a major issue.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
first of all, we acknowledge the efforts you are making and we applaud your policy, especially with the quantitative easing programme, in an extremely difficult environment for inflation and the return to growth.
‒ the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution aims to protect the human environment from air pollution.
we support the report and believe that the problems caused by air pollution should be tackled at international level.
‒ the the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution aims to protect the environment from air pollution.
the 1998 aarhus protocol on heavy metals aims to reduce and control emissions into the atmosphere.
it requires the parties to reduce their total annual emissions for these three metals.
the amended protocol specifies, in particular, stricter limit values for dust emissions from certain main fixed sources, as well as flexible transitional arrangements applicable to the benefit of contracting parties that accede to the amended protocol before the end of 2019. the ratification of the amendment will be an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution.
‒ we support the report which stresses that air pollutants can travel many thousands of kilometres before they settle and therefore the problems caused by air pollution should be addressed at international level.
‒ the the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution aims to protect the environment from air pollution.
the 1998 aarhus protocol aims to control and reduce emissions.
the amended protocol updates the implementation requirements for various substances, updates the restrictions on emissions from various sources, and adds to the list new substances affected by the annual total emission limits and reporting obligations.
the ratification of the amendments will be an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
‒ the we support the report and believe that the loss of biodiversity is a loss for nature, for people and for the economy.
we agree with the rapporteur who calls for a stronger political will to tackle biodiversity loss as a priority and for a multilateral approach where regional and local actors play a special role.
‒ the the eu's target to halt biodiversity loss was not met in 2010. the eu responded by setting out a new strategy in 2011. in 2015, it was clear that without more effort, the eu would fail again in 2020 to achieve its goals.
the report tackles the biodiversity strategy as an objective and recommends better implementation of all relevant legislation.
‒ the i voted in favour of the report in recognition of the need for urgent action to protect europe's biodiversity, which is essential to our health and well-being and to our economic well-being.
the report proposes european and national actions to achieve the objectives of the european biodiversity strategy by 2020 and suggests the full implementation, enforcement and funding of the birds and habitats directives.
with climate change, we are seeing a reshaping of fauna and flora that is directly affecting the biodiversity of the planet.
in addition to the extreme right-wing parties, we have unfortunately recently seen xenophobic approaches by some governments in eastern europe, racist voices from parties in the ecr group, and dangerous statements by party officials in the ppe group, which are fostering a climate of xenophobia and racism and which must be dealt with effectively.
‒ we oppose the proposal, taking into account the concerns often expressed at national level concerning issues related to the safety of genetically modified organisms for health or the environment.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies, and that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies.
‒ the we voted against the report to veto the authorization of the placing on the market of genetically modified soya, since our aim remains to ensure a high level of protection of human life and health, the environment and the interests of consumers.
‒ we vote against the motion for a resolution and stress that our aim is to ensure a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests in relation to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies, and that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies.
‒ the we voted against the report to veto the authorization of the placing on the market of genetically modified soya, since our aim remains to ensure a high level of protection of human life and health, the environment and the interests of consumers.
‒ we vote against the motion for a resolution and stress that our aim is to ensure a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests in relation to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies, and that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies.
‒ the we voted against the report to veto the authorization of the placing on the market of genetically modified soya, since our aim remains to ensure a high level of protection of human life and health, the environment and the interests of consumers.
‒ the the commission has proposed a regulation amending regulation (ec) no 692/2008 on emissions from light passenger and commercial vehicles (euro 6).
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies.
the new plan would require car manufacturers to reach a 'temporary compliance factor' which would effectively raise emissions to 168 mg/km.
the commission's decision confirms our concerns about its hypocritical attitude to the issue of reducing emissions and climate change, as was shown by the volkswagen scandal.
we also need to make the most of the comparative advantages of island regions, such as the exploitation of various forms of renewable energy.
we support this process and believe that there should be no outside interference affecting the whole climate, but purely support for the process itself.
the purpose of the western intervention in libya is none other than to control and dominate the rich energy resources of the region.
‒ the we support the motion for a resolution and recall that reducing economic, social and environmental disparities between regions is a major objective of european cohesion policy.
we stress that islands, as peripheral regions on the eu's external borders, are particularly vulnerable to today's challenges (globalisation, demographic challenges, climate change, energy supply and, particularly for the southern regions, exposure to increasing migratory flows).
for the above reasons, we call on the commission to draw up an 'eu strategic framework for islands', as we call on member states and regional and local authorities to play an important role in development strategies for islands based on a vertical approach involving all levels of governance, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, in the perspective of ensuring sustainable development for eu islands.
in particular, it calls on the commission to (a) create, on the basis of article 174 tfeu, which recognises the permanent handicaps of island regions, a homogeneous group consisting of all island regions, (b) take into account, in addition to gdp, other statistical indicators reflecting economic and social vulnerability as a result of permanent natural handicaps, (c) produce an in-depth study/analysis on the extra costs of living in island regions, as regards the transport system, energy supply and access to markets, and finally to submit a communication on the eu agenda for new zealand and a follow-up to the development of access to new zealand.
finally, we note the challenges facing local and regional authorities such as globalisation, climate change, energy security, migration flows and increased urbanisation.
‒ the we voted against the resolution as it aims to further strengthen the role of regional and local authorities in the formulation of national policies on local and regional environmental issues.
we believe that the migration of workers should be a matter of their free choice, from one safe working environment to another.
the migration of workers from one safe working environment to another must be a matter of their free choice.
‒ we support the report and stress the need to invest in social development, which is not only a means to ensure sustainable and inclusive economic growth and convergence, but must also be an objective in itself.
‒ we support the report and recognise that the ecb, in reacting to a complex environment characterised by a sovereign debt crisis, falling inflation, credit crunch and sluggish economic growth, and with its interest rates nearing the lower bound of zero, has unfortunately also made wrong decisions on key issues.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of certain substances and mixtures is a very good one.
as stated in the draft law, the member states should - as a general principle - promote healthy eating habits, local food, organic farming and the fight against food waste.
‒ we support the report, which we believe can contribute to efforts to make the trans-european transport network (ten-t) more efficient, interconnected and sustainable, by creating a framework that will improve port efficiency and help to cope with changes in transport and logistics requirements.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
‒ we reject the report and note that the reduction of sulphur dioxide emissions from the combustion of certain liquid petroleum fuels is achieved by imposing sulphur content limits on these fuels as a condition for their use within the territory, territorial waters and exclusive economic zones or pollution control zones of the member states.
it is clear that the eu, in order to promote the euro-atlantic integration of fyrom in order to serve its energy interests, is prepared to repudiate itself once again and to abolish the principles it invokes.
the protection of the environment is, after all, the guiding principle behind all this.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment, the environment and the environmentally friendly aspects of the transport of dangerous goods.
it shall promote a partnership framework within which a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible exploitation of fishery resources can be developed in the greenland fishing zone.
the new protocol, as the previous one expired on 31 december 2015, is in line with the objectives of the fisheries partnership agreement, strengthens cooperation between the eu and greenland and promotes a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy.
the current protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement expired on 31 december 2015. following the conclusion of those negotiations, a new protocol was initialled on 20 march 2015. the new protocol is consistent with the objectives of the fisheries partnership agreement, strengthens cooperation between the union and greenland and promotes a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the greenland fishing zone in the interests of both parties.
‒ we support the report, as marine activities are developing and multiplying at a rapid pace, and therefore the pressure for sustainability and conservation of marine biodiversity is constantly increasing.
‒ the the report focuses on the need to enhance and conserve marine biodiversity and sustainable use, while recognising the risks and negative impacts on the global marine environment caused by the rapid development and expansion of marine activities (industrial fishing, offshore drilling, shipping, etc.).
finally, there is also another important explicit reference to the right of each country to benefit from the conservation and sustainable use of its resources, particularly in the context of blue growth.
‒ the marine biodiversity in areas outside national jurisdiction is at serious risk of pollution in the absence of an organised effort to protect it by the international community.
‒ the i voted in favour of the report on the legal regime for the law of the sea and the conservation of biodiversity in areas beyond national jurisdiction, recognising the need for an international approach to manage pollution and the growing risks to marine biodiversity.
the conservation of biodiversity in areas outside the framework of the law of the sea is an urgent need in the light of the rapid changes in the fishing industry worldwide.
this report raises a serious issue, which is also primarily environmental, and aims to preserve marine biodiversity.
‒ the the fisheries aspects to be included in the un convention on the law of the sea include mainly the conservation of biodiversity.
the aim should be to achieve a competitive regulatory environment within the eu, while taking account of the needs of businesses and promoting employment, production and innovation.
however, i am voting against this resolution because i believe that there is a need for a better balance between the present weak legislation and the different privileges enjoyed by the member states, while taking into account the important rules for the protection of workers, consumers and the environment.
it ensures a high level of employment and is a socially and environmentally sustainable form of fishing.
a number of independent studies reveal a number of worrying findings in terms of health and the environment.
the eu-central asia strategy was adopted in the context of the growing importance of the region and the eu's increased involvement in neighbouring afghanistan, the extension of the european neighbourhood policy to the caspian region, the eu's continued support for the reform and modernisation of post-soviet societies, and the eu's energy security interests.
unfortunately, however, it contains a number of negative elements such as macrofinancial assistance, extension of its failed policies to neighbouring states, energy liberalisation by russia and cooperation with the us across the region to tackle the various problems.
however, placing private finance at the heart of the development agenda is a major cause for concern, without an equal emphasis on building a strong and effective regulatory environment.
‒ we support the report and approve the closure of the accounts of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2014.
gue/ngl), in writing.
‒ we support the report, as we found that it justifiably approves the closure of the accounts of the european environment agency for the financial year 2014.
gue/ngl), in writing.
in reality, however, not only is the northern pipeline not a problem, but it is a response to the union's own inability to achieve energy efficiency and supply while enhancing its energy security.
the problem is that no real measures have yet been taken to end the energy isolation to which many of the union's countries and regions are condemned, particularly in the south and not in the north.
the problem is that we have not yet been able to tackle the serious problems in the energy supply, while energy poverty is afflicting a large proportion of the population.
what is needed is the immediate exploitation of the union's domestic energy resources, and an end to the ignoring of the role of deposits discovered in cyprus, which is a member state, and of deposits in the wider region of the eastern mediterranean and north africa.
the european union is therefore called upon to support energy investment in the eastern mediterranean immediately, to promote the creation of a mediterranean gas hub with pipelines and to develop the production of liquefied natural gas.
it is equally important for us to develop a comprehensive strategy for the development of renewable energy sources, while ensuring affordable prices for consumers.
the speaker accepts to answer a question with a 'blue card' (rule 162 (8))
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
i would like to focus more attention on the fact that the european union must turn to domestic energy sources but, at the same time, develop renewable energy sources even more.
‒ we support the report and consider that the conclusion of a sustainable fisheries partnership agreement with liberia would clearly help the eu to achieve its objectives on combating iuu fishing and extend the common fisheries policy (cfp) objective of sustainable management of fisheries and aquaculture activities.
the union's objectives through this agreement include combating illegal and unregulated (iuu) fishing, which has contributed significantly to the reduction of the national income of liberian fishermen and the destruction of the country's marine ecosystem.
in my vote, i support the conclusion of a fisheries partnership agreement with liberia, in the hope that this agreement will be put to good use to help combat illegal fishing, protect marine biodiversity and provide economic and social support for the country.
a corresponding financial support of eur 16.5 million is provided to promote sustainable development in the fisheries sector and environmental protection in sensitive marine areas.
the oct will also contribute to sustainable urban development by pooling funds from the various operational programmes.
the natural wealth of mountains, which leads to an abundance of renewable energy sources, can help union policies aimed at protecting the environment.
this will create new jobs, the so-called 'green' jobs in the report, which help to combat climate change.
cohesion policy in mountain areas will also help to combat the poverty and social exclusion experienced by the inhabitants of these areas, with the ultimate aim of sustainable economic development in the mountains.
the rich natural resources and advantages of mountain areas can create jobs by improving employment within the eu, in particular green jobs that help to combat climate change.
as for the debt, i'll answer it as simply as i can: without debt relief to the extent that it becomes sustainable, growth through rational investment is not going to happen.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
‒ we support the motion for a resolution and stress that the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals are a renewed international commitment to eradicate poverty, to redefine and modernise our development strategies for the next 15 years and to deliver results.
we have abstained because we remain committed to sustainable development.
our objective remains and is a top priority to have a functioning energy market that is beneficial to citizens.
i therefore believe that the objective of the third energy package is to create a truly competitive, transparent and consumer-friendly retail energy market.
‒ we support the report and believe that the ultimate goal should be an economy based entirely on renewable energy sources.
in this context, the energy union should focus on the interests of current and future generations of citizens.
the problem is that there is a decentralisation of energy management with responsibility shifting from the state to smes, consumers and local communities.
the call for the states to implement the third energy package immediately, which we have expressed our disagreement with as it does not meet the needs of society, is also negative.
the proposals being developed are aimed at promoting the privatisation of energy, with negative consequences, of course, primarily for citizens but also for the state and society.
on the positive side, the objective of combating energy poverty through a specific relationship plan and a focus on access to affordable energy as a basic social right.
‒ the this report concerns only household energy consumers and not industrial consumers, who should be subject to a separate legislative regime because of their substantial differences.
in the course of the evolution of the traditional centralised energy production system, we are moving towards a more decentralised and efficient system based on renewable energy sources, since this is our ultimate goal, the full exploitation of renewable energy sources.
at the same time, the energy union must have as its main objective the provision of energy to citizens at affordable prices, but at the same time in good quality.
the protection of citizens must be a priority in tackling unfair competition and energy poverty.
i therefore believe that despite the progress made, more effort is needed to achieve a balanced energy union combining a competitive environment with consumer-friendly prices.
‒ the the report includes problematic references such as the position of decentralising energy management with responsibility shifting from the state to smes, consumers and local communities.
the aim is to produce and market energy by citizens themselves acting as investors in order to achieve a competitive energy system in a free competitive energy market.
it also stresses that the states must immediately implement the third energy package, which we have disagreed with as it does not meet the needs of society.
the proposals being developed also promote the privatization of the energy commodity, with negative consequences for the state and society.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of electricity from renewable sources, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of electricity from renewable sources.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is based on the principle of the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
we believe that eu development policy cohesion is a key element in the implementation of the new agenda for sustainable development.
it is noted that some states have established an effective inter-ministerial coordination mechanism with a specific mandate for policy cohesion for sustainable development.
for the above reasons, an international regulatory agreement in the automotive sector can help to ensure transparency and a healthy competitive environment in this sector.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
‒ the the european commission's report on policy coherence for development, published last august, addressed the 2030 agenda for sustainable development, of which policy coherence is a part.
it stresses the need to support the development of local communities, to take measures to protect the environment, and to oppose the reckless exploitation promoted by large companies.
‒ we support the report and believe that the eu can become a world leader in agricultural technology, innovation and sustainability.
‒ the although the report contained some positive elements, its one-dimensional approach to the issue of technological solutions for sustainable agriculture in the eu did not allow us to support it.
the report also fails to address the burning issue of food waste, which is estimated to account for 30% of production.
‒ we support the report and stress the importance of new innovative and affordable solutions for the agricultural sector to increase the use of more environmentally friendly methods, goods and resources, which may include not only new farming and land management methods but also means to increase the use of renewable energy sources and means to phase out the need for fossil fuels.
we believe that the current agricultural crisis is very closely linked to the environmental, social and economic crisis, to a globalised production-consumption system and to the unequal distribution of resources in the eu and around the world.
solidarity, equal burden-sharing, adherence to the principles and values of the european union, respect for human rights, emphasis on legal channels of migration, cooperation between the european union and third countries of origin and transit, an adequate and sustainable financial base.
we are convinced that agreements between the european union and third countries should focus on improving the situation of citizens, protecting their rights, the environment and building peace and stability.
the agreement also does nothing to help tackle the environmental problems of the proliferation of appliances and the need for recycling.
‒ we voted against the objection to the authorisation of genetically modified maize, based on the need to safeguard the interests of consumers, to ensure a high level of protection of human life and health and to protect the environment.
‒ we vote against the proposal as we consider that the draft commission implementing decision does not achieve the objective of protecting health and the environment set out in directive 2001/18/ec and therefore exceeds the implementing powers provided for in that directive.
‒ we rejected the objection concerning the placing on the market of genetically modified carnations on the grounds that consumer interests, a high level of protection of human life and health and the protection of the environment must be safeguarded.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environmental objectives are met, and i am pleased to say that the commission has taken the necessary steps to ensure that the objectives of the directive are met.
(the president cut off the speaker because of a microphone problem) i am convinced that the climate and environmental objectives are identical to the energy objectives.
we cannot just focus on energy issues and leave the environment out, and because my country has recently suffered an unprecedented ecological, environmental disaster from uncontrolled fires, resulting in the loss of life of firefighters who fell on duty, there must be... (the president cut off the speaker)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud.
how can we, as the european union, mobilise both funds and the objectives of the european union so that, alongside the energy objectives, we can also achieve environmental objectives and be able to protect our forests and restore them when they are damaged, as has happened at the moment with cyprus?
the report rightly stresses that the development of renewable energy sources must be recognised as a fundamental pillar of our energy policy.
indeed, if we are sincere about the goals we are setting for combating climate change, tackling energy poverty and developing a productive energy model for the benefit of society, it is very important to promote an ambitious and realistic integrated strategy for renewable energy.
only then will we achieve the relevant targets we have set for 2020 and 2030. but to create an energy model based on recognisable energy sources, it is important to increase public investment in promoting the necessary infrastructure.
it is equally important to promote instruments to support small producers of renewable energy sources as well as measures to ensure the promotion of renewable energy sources at the lowest possible cost to consumers.
in this process, democratic control and collective management, as the report rightly calls for, are necessary elements to ensure that the needs and interests of society are best served, so that energy is safeguarded as a social good to which all people have equal and cheap access.
i believe that one way of achieving this is to exploit new european energy sources.
so if the eu really means that it has the political will and determination to become energy self-sufficient in the future and at the same time reduce both energy dependence and energy costs, it has only one way to go steadily and consistently: to make use of and develop europe's energy sources as a priority.
cyprus and possibly other european countries currently have energy resources and energy prospects.
the eu must support cyprus and the eastern mediterranean not only in theory but in practice with energy infrastructure and investment.
the promotion of competitive alternative energy and the exploitation of renewable energy sources, focusing on the comparative advantages of countries with increased sunshine, wind, biofuels, etc., is an efficient move with multiple benefits for both energy and the environment.
the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of subsidiarity to the energy sector in order to ensure that the energy sector is not left to the discretion of the member states.
the three species are important elements of the baltic sea ecosystem, and i therefore consider it of the utmost importance to protect and control their stocks.
i therefore support this resolution, which aims at the sustainable exploitation of these species as part of the overall effort to protect the marine ecosystem.
‒ the we support the report and once again stress that the development of renewable energy sources requires a new orientation that makes them the fundamental pillar of the european union's energy model.
we have a primary responsibility to combat climate change, as we face an historic commitment.
we must reduce the rest of the world's dependence on energy resources if we are to sustain our production model and create quality jobs, spearheading the development of technologies of strategic importance for the energy transition.
‒ we voted against the report because it advocates the creation of an integrated strategy for the development and support of renewable energy sources as a fundamental pillar of eu energy policy.
it also refers to energy poverty and to the aid/support to small producers of renewable energy sources.
‒ the the development of renewable energy sources is a major objective of the union, with environmental protection as its main motivation.
the eu is contributing to the fight against climate change and to the development of new technologies to support the energy transition towards renewable energy sources.
i believe that the renewable energy directive is a legal commitment for the union to move in the right direction towards socially acceptable and sustainable energy production, which is environmentally friendly and beneficial to the health of european citizens.
the directive also contains mechanisms for monitoring the application of the rules contained therein, so as to maximise the use and development of renewable energy sources.
i am voting in favour of this resolution in the hope that we will be able to create an efficient and effective system in this area by increasing investment and by ensuring proper control of the management of energy production.
‒ the i voted in favour of the progress report on renewable energy in the plenary, welcoming the european parliament's aim of further using these sources, making them capable of shaping the european union's energy model.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states, in particular through the implementation of the energy union strategy and the energy union strategy.
the right regulatory framework exists, it just needs to include a more binding target on the use of renewable energy sources, to be able to talk about an effective path towards the union's long-term climate goals by 2050.
gue/ngl), in writing.
‒ the we voted against the report because it is moving in the right direction towards creating an integrated strategy for the development and support of renewable energy sources.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of renewable energy sources, which are not covered by the directive, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of renewable energy sources.
it also points out that it is very important to set binding and ambitious targets to combat climate change, to address energy poverty and to develop a productive energy model for the benefit of society.
equally important are references to the need to increase public investment to promote the necessary infrastructure, to promote measures to support small producers of renewable energy sources as well as measures to ensure the promotion of renewable energy sources at the lowest possible cost to consumers.
it has rightly pointed out that in this process democratic control and collective management are necessary elements to achieve the best possible service to the needs and interests of society and to ensure energy as a social good, to which all peoples have equal and cheap access.
‒ the we abstained in this report because, on the one hand, there are positive references in the text to the need for this directive to be consistent with the objectives of climate protection and to the need to promote measures to combat energy poverty and to support vulnerable groups.
however, it is clear that the policies proposed and promoted are in the context of and in the service of the implementation of the energy union, which we have strongly criticised.
the policies being promoted are therefore not serving the needs and interests of society but are using energy as a tool to serve the needs of the market.
‒ the the european union's 2020 targets are to reduce carbon dioxide emissions, to make better use of renewable energy sources in total energy consumption and to increase energy efficiency.
the main objective is also to increase investment in new energy-efficient technologies.
i believe that the present bureaucracy in the energy sector, the high prices for energy consumption by small and mediumsized enterprises, together with the complexity of the legislation on energy efficiency, reduce the efficiency of the system.
the energy efficiency directive, which aims to simplify legislation and achieve coherence, is therefore a positive step in the right direction.
at the same time, the directive promotes and encourages innovation and provides new incentives for member states to fully comply and modernise in the energy sector.
‒ the there are positive references in the text, which we supported, to the need for this directive to be in line with the objectives of climate protection and to the need to promote measures to combat energy poverty and support vulnerable groups.
in this context, the policies being promoted do not serve the needs and interests of society but transform energy into a tool designed to serve the needs of the market.
our group, the gue, has argued from the outset that it is important to ensure that an energy labelling system is accessible to consumers, but that it also includes all the necessary information.
we therefore welcome the proposals in the report to delete the misleading symbols and to move to a simpler, uniform system of labelling from a to g. consumers will thus have clearer indications of a product's energy efficiency and will be able to make informed choices, which will save energy and money.
we support the report, and call on the commission to actively promote further wto reforms in order to develop multilateral rules for the sustainable and responsible management of global supply chains, which should include in particular: (a) effective and enforceable supply chain due diligence and transparency requirements, based on the un guiding principles on business and human rights; (b) health and safety standards, in particular recognising the right of workers to safety committees; (c) a social protection threshold; (d) compliance with the core wto labour standards.
finally, we ask the commission to accelerate progress on the development of product differentiation schemes, depending on the process and method of production, and sustainability criteria in the framework of trade agreements.
‒ taking into account the changes to the text and the promotion of less harmful emissions, we agreed and voted in favour of the report in the context of the co-decision of parliament and the council on the subject.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
however, the importance of eu-azerbaijan relations is not limited to energy security, and the pivotal nature of this partnership needs to be considered in the context of all aspects of cooperation considered in the eastern partnership.
the ida is also a prerequisite for a credible environment for trade in services on a global scale.
we support the report as we believe it serves the objective of further exploiting the potential of energy efficiency to limit energy demand and consequently reduce the european union's energy dependence.
‒ we voted against the report on energy efficiency labelling as it includes deleting misleading symbols and moving to a simpler, uniform labelling system from a to g. this will help consumers make informed choices and thus save energy, but also money.
we support the resolution and stress that cohesion policy should be fully aligned with the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and based on the structuring of its three funds the european regional development fund (erdf), the european social fund (esf) and the cohesion fund (cf) as well as on broader coordination under the common strategic framework (csf) with the rural development funds, namely the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd) and, in the maritime and fisheries sector, the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff).
for those of us on the left, it is clear that energy must be secured as a public social good to which we all have equal and cheap access.
equally important is that the provision of energy to citizens is a matter of national policy, defined on the basis of the needs of the country and the people, with the aim of social development.
finally, the design of the electricity market should be based on an integrated proposal to support and develop renewable energy sources, which is also missing from the report.
we shall therefore vote against the report, since its sole aim is to make energy a tool for promoting large private interests and competitiveness in the union.
the commission i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to make a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire in a building.
energy issues are certainly of paramount importance to the european union, the member states and consumers.
and consumers are not more concerned by the left members who are in denial on these issues and do not realise that through the re-design of the energy market there will be greater energy efficiency, which also means lower costs for consumers.
but the key words here are greater energy efficiency and energy security.
energy security, commissioner, and i am addressing you, if that is really our objective, by saying that we must turn to those countries which have the potential for future energy support from the european union.
the eastern mediterranean is a great opportunity for this and i would ask you to take the initiative to make cyprus a coordinating energy hub and hub.
the european union must be able to make europe truly independent, through and from this factor of energy wealth, through a member state of the european union.
but at the same time i would like to stress that for isolated countries, and in particular island regions, which are likely to be excluded from the single internal energy market because of their interconnection, there must be other kinds of support and assistance.
i would like to conclude, mr president, by stressing that these countries, particularly those in the mediterranean, have comparative advantages in terms of renewable energy sources.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
moreover, while it was known that the emissions measurements are much higher under real conditions than the values recorded in laboratories, it was not requested to carry out checks only under real road conditions.
but let's call it what it is: the gaps in legislation, the strong pressure from the car industry and the safety net of multinational companies have led to the political scandal over emissions measurements.
we want to put an end to all practices that seek to make unfair profits at the expense of public health and the environment.
‒ the in the current economic recession and financial and social crisis, we want the eu to become a smart, sustainable and unconstrained economy within the framework of the europe 2020 strategy.
we voted against the report because it guarantees: - improved regional connectivity, mobility and accessibility to services; - transfer of knowledge and innovation, enhancing the competitiveness of smes; - addressing environmental challenges, better risk management and disaster response; - enhancing institutional capacity and social capital development, consolidating cross-border network structures and creating new partnerships, and also contributing to territorial cohesion.
it also promotes safety and helps to overcome barriers related to education, health care, transport and energy.
the eia is undoubtedly achieving best practices in areas such as better regional connectivity, mobility and accessibility to services, knowledge and innovation transfer, in addressing many environmental challenges through the application of environmental best practices.
despite the small budget, the esi projects have tangible results: removing barriers to better safety, transferring knowledge and innovation, improving regional connectivity, boosting the competitiveness of smes and tackling environmental challenges.
we want to put an end to all practices which, in pursuit of illicit profit, have serious consequences for public health and the environment.
‒ we support the report because when mr rosario crocetta was a member of the european parliament, and especially when he made the statements in question, he was actively involved, at political level, in the fight against organised crime and its effects on politics and the economy, particularly in the area of public procurement in the field of environmental policy.
he was vice-chairman of the european parliament's select committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering and was a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
there is no doubt that, when mr crocetta made the statements at issue (for which he is accused), he raised a matter of general concern to european citizens, namely the alleged influence of organised crime on specific public procurement procedures with significant economic and environmental consequences, as well as on well-known politicians, an issue which can be considered as one of the key tasks of members of the european parliament.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
our main objective is to protect citizens from unfair profits and to secure the supply of energy to households at the lowest possible prices.
‒ we support the report which promotes the objectives of energy policy, namely security of energy supply, environmental sustainability and the setting of appropriate prices.
this should facilitate the use of new technologies and investment, in particular in renewable energy sources and low-carbon power plants.
we are convinced that energy must be safeguarded as a public good, to which everyone can have equal and cheap access.
the provision of energy to citizens should also be a matter of national policy, determined by the needs of the country and the people, always with a view to social development.
finally, the design of the electricity market should be based on an integrated proposal to support and develop renewable energy sources, which is also missing from the report.
the report is a report which is not only about the energy sector but also about the energy sector itself.
‒ the the redesign of the eu energy market is a major issue for both the union and its member states.
in order to achieve energy policy objectives, it is important to facilitate the use of new technologies and to invest, in particular in renewable energy sources and low-carbon power plants.
the energy challenges facing europe can be addressed through better integration and coordination of energy markets, providing many opportunities to achieve the common european objectives of a more secure, cost-effective and environmentally sustainable energy supply.
we are clear that energy must be safeguarded as a public social good, to which we all have equal and cheap access.
equally important is that the provision of energy to citizens is a matter of national policy, defined on the basis of the needs of the country and the people, always with a view to social development.
finally, the design of the electricity market should be based on a comprehensive proposal to support and develop renewable energy sources, which is also missing from the report.
we therefore voted against the report because its sole objective is to make energy a tool for strengthening private interests and the competitiveness of the eu.
‒ the the report makes a number of positive suggestions concerning the promotion of renewable energy sources, the need to combat energy poverty and support vulnerable groups, the increase in funding for housing renovation and for households outside areas with central heating and cooling systems.
however, there is a problematic assessment that the key to fighting energy poverty is to increase energy efficiency to reduce overall costs.
the proposal seeks to disorient and silence the main cause of energy poverty, which is the neoliberal policies of severe austerity.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not affected by the effects of the climate change.
i am voting against the eu heating and cooling strategy because it is an integral part of the energy union strategy and of achieving the eu's 2020, 2030 and 2050 energy and climate goals.
‒ the the energy union strategy promises to provide all europeans with secure, sustainable and competitive energy, which requires a fundamental change in our energy landscape.
heating and cooling buildings and industry consume half of the eu's energy.
this not only means consuming more energy than is needed, but also means a financial burden for many families in europe.
increasing energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy sources will also have an impact on the security of energy supply.
i voted in favour of the report which calls for ambitious reforms in the energy sector to make it more efficient, environmentally responsible and socially oriented.
there is an urgent need to take measures to reduce co2 emissions and avoid a dangerous global warming.
this is why the eu should set a binding target of reducing energy consumption by 40% by 2030.
in writing.
‒ the we voted against the report because it contains many positive proposals on the promotion of renewable energy sources, the need to combat energy poverty and support vulnerable groups, the need to increase funding for housing renovation and for households outside areas with central heating and cooling systems.
however, we separate our position from the erroneous assessment that the key to fighting energy poverty is to increase energy efficiency to reduce overall costs.
smes are the backbone of the eu economy and are essential for job creation, they are the main drivers of sustainable job creation for all member states.
finally, smes must have a favourable business environment in which environmental damage can be avoided and prevented and green ideas can be developed.
smes and entrepreneurs themselves need a supportive environment to gradually move to a circular economy.
it is about pursuing common objectives throughout the region, in line with the major european objectives of the europe 2020 strategy on sustainable development, the environment and energy.
however, the area has poor transport links and logistical problems for manufacturers and suffers from the consequences of climate change.
the strategy is built on a number of pillars, which are reflected in the report and which include proposals to improve competitiveness, prosperity and cohesion, accessibility and transport links for all in the alpine region, the protection of the alpine cultural heritage and the promotion of the sustainable use of natural and cultural resources.
‒ we support the report and believe that this ecowas has the potential to bring about fundamental positive change and contribute to sustainable economic growth and enhance intra-regional trade and integration.
‒ we support the resolution stressing that fisheries workers need special protection, taking into account, inter alia, the specific nature of work on fishing vessels, the high number of fatal and non-fatal accidents, as well as the risk and incidence of occupational diseases, compared to other sectors, in a hazardous working environment, the unclear separation between working hours, rest and leisure and the impact of fatigue due to inadequate rest on health and safety; this includes the dissemination of informal and informal employment relationships and pay arrangements, including crew-sharing schemes.
the eu is also committed to the development of a comprehensive and effective policy on the environment, and to the promotion of sustainable development.
we voted against the report which contains many positive points, particularly with regard to the regulation on wild animals which should provide incentives for rural populations to participate in nature conservation by linking their benefits to the state of biodiversity.
‒ we support the report and the rapporteur's position that in order to achieve a healthy environment for business development and stimulate job creation, national and european policies must as a priority address skills issues (shortages, mismatches, brain drain), regulatory uncertainty and administrative burdens, as well as the problem of undeclared work and the de facto privileged position of multinational companies.
i believe that if one studies this agreement, in its sixteen years of existence, one will realize that, whatever problems there may be, whatever difficulties and obstacles there may be, it is a very useful agreement, useful because it really does something for these countries and contributes both to their sustainable development and to their development and integration into the world economy.
our intention must be to achieve sustainable development within objective ii, but also the related objectives, which aim to eliminate both hunger and malnutrition by 2030. however, the current situation proves that our policies so far have been ineffective and wrong, and i disagree with the encouraging results and figures that have been reported.
the new targets can be achieved mainly by increasing the productivity of small farms and holdings and by creating sustainable agricultural and food production systems capable of feeding a total population expected to reach 8.5 billion people.
member states should, in line with their commitments, step up their efforts for global food security and give priority to sustainable agriculture and local food production, as well as support for smallholder farmers and women farmers as food producers.
at the same time, the international community and the european union must work with all countries to support the design and implementation of a comprehensive framework of concrete, feasible and robust national and transnational food measures, based on the sustainable development goals, to reduce underdevelopment and malnutrition.
finally, humanitarian aid must be targeted, not exploited by corrupt actors, avoided waste and complemented by commission strategies linking humanitarian and development aid.
but all our action must respect and promote the objectives we have set for the climate and the protection of the environment.
the protection of the environment is a basic prerequisite for improving the quality of human life.
‒ we support the agreement and underline europe's commitment to take a leading role in efforts to tackle climate change and to make progress towards a low-carbon economy.
‒ the i am voting against the commission's draft proposal for the paris agreement because i believe that the eu must play a leading role in the fight against climate change and work towards a subsequent global treaty.
i also believe that the decision to conclude the paris agreement will send a strong message and highlight the leadership of the eu and its member states in the international effort to tackle climate change.
it will also make a decisive contribution to the rest of the world's efforts to tackle climate change.
‒ the i voted in favour of the resolution by which the european parliament gives its consent to ratify the paris agreement to combat climate change.
the european union, which accounts for around 12% of global greenhouse gas emissions, is confirming its leading role in the fight against climate change.
together we are now moving towards the eu's commitment to reduce emissions in the european union by at least 40% by 2030. thanks to eu ratification, the paris agreement will enter into force in time for the cop 22 climate change conference in marrakesh.
‒ the the paris agreement has created an important framework for tackling climate change.
it's the only way to protect the environment.
the eu and rich countries in particular must persistently take the lead in setting new targets to combat energy poverty, end the wasteful use of natural resources, end deforestation, reduce greenhouse gas emissions and develop an integrated plan to support and promote renewable energy sources.
i believe that if one studies this agreement, in its sixteen years of existence, one will realize that, whatever problems there are, whatever difficulties and obstacles there may be, it is a very useful agreement which really does offer these countries and contributes both to their sustainable development and to their development and integration into the world economy.
finally, i support this resolution and stress that issues such as the fight against poverty, the fight against inequalities and the promotion of sustainable development should be the primary objective of acp-eu cooperation.
i voted in favour of the report calling for the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals to be at the heart of the new agreement, as well as the establishment of an acp-eu peer monitoring, accountability and evaluation mechanism to regularly monitor the implementation of the sdgs in the member states.
at the same time, the calls of the etuc/bpa for integrated and sustainable development policies with the strengthening of the labour and democratic rights of all citizens were not heeded.
today's discussion could have been a question: is the greek public debt sustainable?
i would find it hard to believe that there is any economist who would say that the greek public debt is sustainable.
if it is not sustainable, it does not mean that structural changes and all the rest are not needed, but without sustainable debt i think greece will not develop as quickly as we would like, because there are those who are simply playing games to oppress the greek people or to punish tsipras or anyone else.
the us multinationals will be able to use the tools of ceta through canada to attack the labour, social and environmental standards of the states.
labour legislation, environmental protection standards, consumer safety and public health standards will be squeezed down drastically.
‒ the i voted in favour of the report on achieving the objective of eradicating hunger and malnutrition by 2030, in particular by ensuring opportunities for increasing the productivity of small farms and by achieving sustainable and climate resilient agricultural and food systems.
currently, 159 million children are sick and 50 million are affected because of the reckless waste of food.
‒ the the resolution addresses not only food security but also ensuring sustainable agriculture through improved governance and accountability.
it also proposes systemic policies on food and nutrition, which take into account the gender dimension, sustainable agriculture, the use of and access to natural resources, public water, and public sanitation and hygiene.
on the other hand, only through an ambitious innovation policy that promotes the production of innovative products will the eu be allowed to be self-sufficient in a competitive global environment.
i believe that in order for this agreement to be able to be implemented and to be effective, the two main pillars that we as the european parliament have identified must be given incentives: energy saving and renewable energy sources, which are the basic conditions for the european energy union, and because i heard earlier that we must give incentives to third countries in africa, i say in the mediterranean itself, since the mediterranean has the comparative advantage of being sunny.
my own country, cyprus, has over 300 days of sunshine, and it can very well develop renewable energy sources if it really has the support of the european union programmes.
the other important point i wanted to make is that there must be a mobilization of the citizens themselves, of civil society, for sustainable development, for sustainable development, but also the fight against energy poverty.
by serving and implementing these goals, we are certainly also fighting energy poverty, they will certainly also benefit consumers, and finally, this effort cannot be funded from other sources except the basic principle of all of us that 'no polluters pay' and i don't think the financial transaction tax is related to funding any effort to prevent climate change.
‒ we support the motion for a resolution and urge developed countries and the eu to drastically reduce their own greenhouse gas emissions, even beyond current commitments, to avoid, as far as possible, the large-scale deployment of negative emission technologies because these technologies have not yet been proven successful, socially acceptable, cost-effective or safe.
‒ the i am voting against the resolution on the implementation of the paris agreement and the un conference on climate change because, firstly, climate change can act as a stimulus to competition for resources but it can also exacerbate economic hardship and political instability.
i stress the very important role that developing countries can play in efforts to implement and achieve the paris agreement and for this reason the eu should support developing countries' efforts to transition to societies with low carbon emissions, which are more socially and environmentally sustainable.
finally, i hope that the eu will focus on climate diplomacy to ensure the stability and practical implementation of the paris agreement.
‒ the the resolution aims to define the european parliament's position in the run-up to the cop22 climate conference in marrakesh, morocco.
the draft resolution touches on issues such as the urgent need to implement the paris agreement (cop21), the drastic reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, the eu's renewable energy target for 2020. in parallel, further efforts are needed to ensure that climate finance is mobilised.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
as it states, environment, health, transport, internal market and services remain the policy areas in which most infringement cases remained pending in 2014. given that parliament still has limited access to information on the eu pilot procedure as well as to pending cases, it is not easy to assess to what extent the reduction in formal infringement procedures actually reflects member states' compliance with union law rather than compromise solutions between the commission and member states that are in breach of union law.
‒ i vote against the resolution on the draft commission implementing decision concerning the placing on the market for cultivation of seeds of genetically modified maize bt11 series because i believe that the draft commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law in the sense that it is not compatible with the objectives of directive 2001/18/ec of the european parliament and of the council, which are, in accordance with the precautionary principle, the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states and the protection of human health and the environment when genetically modified organisms are deliberately released into the environment for purposes other than placing on the market within the community and when genetically modified organisms are placed on the market as or in products within the community.
the commission mr president, i must congratulate and commend the rapporteur of this truly comprehensive, effective and holistic report on energy, the dear colleague andrás gyürk, who has really touched not only on the question of natural gas but also on the wider issues of the european union's energy strategy and the subject of the energy union.
i am adopting and supporting this report not only because it includes my own country, cyprus, in its energy plans, but also the wider mediterranean, which is a very important player today in order to be able to complete the issue of energy self-sufficiency, energy supply and energy support for the european union, but also because it proposes solutions with regard to the lng terminal, since a small country like cyprus cannot in fact invest and build such a large project on its own, and for this reason it is turning to the european investment fund, which is important to be used for these plans.
i would like to say to the commissioner present that now is the time to make use of the european fund for strategic investments for the energy self-sufficiency of the european union.
at the same time, i should like to welcome the report's reference to the fact that the european union can become a leader in renewable energy sources, that it can use 100% renewable energy, that it can combat energy poverty and that it can effectively guarantee this basic human right, namely that energy should be the property of every european citizen.
the lng strategy should contribute to reducing dependence on pipelines and diversifying sources and supply routes, primarily to combat energy poverty, but also to enhance energy security.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy resources are used to the full.
it is equally important to support energy island countries such as cyprus and malta to lift their energy isolation.
unfortunately, however, the positive proposals in the report are being overridden by the measures being proposed to impose a common energy policy which would limit the sovereignty and flexibility of the states and make energy a means of serving the needs of the market through ttip-type agreements.
for gue/ngl, the lng strategy must enhance national resilience, promote public infrastructure with environmental standards and ensure the right to equitable and cheap access to energy.
given the european union's energy needs, the desire to reduce dependence on one supplier and geographical diversification, and finally the serious security problems that exist, it is imperative to exploit both resources outside the european union, but especially - and this is mentioned in the report - domestic natural energy resources and, in particular, deposits located in the eastern mediterranean and within the cypriot exclusive economic zone.
given that the business community is obliged to respect human rights, it may also have an important role to play in providing positive incentives to promote human rights, democracy, environmental standards and corporate responsibility.
businesses are called upon to embrace, support and implement, within their sphere of influence, a set of fundamental values relating to human rights, labour standards, the environment, the fight against corruption, and to commit themselves to respecting these values.
‒ i am adopting and supporting this report not only because it includes my own country, cyprus, in its energy plans, but also the wider mediterranean, which is a very important factor today in order to be able to complete the issue of energy self-sufficiency, energy supply and energy support for the european union, but also because it proposes solutions regarding the lng terminal, since a small country like cyprus cannot invest and build such a large project by itself and, therefore, it is turning to the european regional investment fund, which is important to be used for these plans.
the need to ensure the right of access to affordable energy and to combat energy poverty is also underlined.
while today the formulation of energy policy is the responsibility of the member states, the aim is to have a common energy policy and to speak with one voice, which will of course serve specific interests.
the proposal for institutional convergence and the synergy of the union's external policy with the common energy policy, which is being imposed on the member states, is also problematic.
the aim is to make energy a tool of foreign policy rather than part of a development policy to improve the quality of life.
we do not want energy to be used to meet market needs through ttip-type agreements, as proposed in the report, nor to be used to strengthen the eu's ruling circles.
we are fighting to ensure that energy is a public good, to which we all have equal and cheap access.
it is important to put forward a comprehensive proposal for the exploitation of indigenous energy sources, such as, for example, the gas deposits in the cypriot eez, and to support the establishment of a gas liquefaction terminal in cyprus, so as to exploit the deposits in the wider area.
finally, the use of small-scale lng technology in certain sectors, such as long-distance transport or high-efficiency industrial applications, could contribute to climate policy objectives.
the need to ensure the right of access to affordable energy and to combat energy poverty is also underlined.
while today the formulation of energy policy is the responsibility of the member states, the aim is to have a common energy policy and to speak with one voice, which will of course serve specific interests.
the proposal for institutional convergence and the synergy of the union's external policy with the common energy policy, which is being imposed on the member states, is also problematic.
the aim is to make energy a tool of foreign policy rather than part of a development policy to improve the quality of life.
we do not want energy to be used to meet market needs through ttip-type agreements, as proposed in the report, nor to be used to strengthen the eu's ruling circles.
we are fighting to ensure that energy is a public good, to which we all have equal and cheap access.
‒ we support the report and stress the importance of ensuring effective control of fishing activities to ensure the sustainable exploitation of living marine resources and to maintain a level playing field between eu fleets.
in addition, the maintenance of sustainable transport links should be seen as an increasingly important factor in strengthening the stability and security of the eu's borders in eastern europe and the western balkans.
this regulation, despite its individual imperfections, will enhance plant safety and biodiversity through a risk-based approach, allowing for faster decision-making, faster action and better cooperation between member states.
‒ our disagreement with nuclear energy programmes is clear.
‒ our disagreement with nuclear energy programmes is clear.
‒ we believe that the conditions for security and sustainable nuclear disarmament can only be achieved through a multilateral process in which the parties participate in good faith.
‒ the the deterioration of relations between the nuclear-armed states is making the security environment of the european union increasingly tense.
the need to strengthen nuclear non-proliferation and cooperation on the peaceful use of nuclear energy is emphasised.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
‒ the the security situation inside and outside europe has deteriorated significantly in recent years due to challenges that no country can address alone, such as terrorism, cyber threats and security breaches and energy.
better use of the available capacity of passenger shipping could contribute not only to reducing congestion and co2 emissions but also to improving air quality and providing better transport services overall.
the report does not differentiate between small regular ship routes and large leisure cruises, nor between strategic impacts such as their contribution to social and long-term territorial cohesion or to higher overall environmental performance.
nor is there a call for proper social, economic and environmental assessment in the design and financing of new related infrastructure.
it also stresses the need for the private sector to respect the principles of international law and social and environmental standards.
notes with concern that only five member states had published busan implementation plans in 2015 and calls on the member states to publish the implementation plans and report on their efforts; it also stresses the need for the private sector to respect the principles of international law and social and environmental standards.
in this environment, the freezing of funds is a purely political message, but it does not exert any real pressure on the erdoğan regime.
but how does this combine with reducing pollution in europe?
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, the paris agreement has provided an important framework for tackling climate change.
however, the objective of the 22nd climate summit, to develop national action plans and promote more specific targets to strengthen actions by 2020 and thus support the implementation of the paris agreement, failed.
commissioner, the european union and the rich countries, regardless of what the united states does, must immediately move forward in cooperation with china and other countries, support the developing countries, develop a comprehensive action plan to combat energy poverty, to end the wasteful use of natural resources and deforestation, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to promote renewable energy sources.
‒ we reject the report and note that air pollution is high on the political agenda as a major public health issue.
‒ the the purpose of the directive is to reduce national emissions of certain air pollutants in order to address the extremely significant health risks and environmental impacts, in particular of air pollution in the union.
however, the report shows serious shortcomings in particular with regard to the removal of the methane and mercury emission ceilings and the absence of binding interim (2025) targets for reducing emissions (there is only a reference to indicative targets).
some 90% of europeans living in cities are exposed to air pollution levels considered harmful to human health, and many vulnerable socio-demographic groups are particularly affected.
the member states must now act to fully implement the directive and, moreover, to put into practice their ambition to combat air pollution.
‒ the the case of air quality is a cross-border health and environmental issue.
‒ we reject the report and note that the european security environment has deteriorated significantly, becoming more fluid, more complex, more dangerous and less predictable.
‒ we abstained in the vote on the report because, although our group's amendments were not taken into account, the report was clearly better than its original form, particularly with regard to issues such as information given to beneficiaries, the environmental risk of investments, transparency and the limitation of portfolio investments.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the action plan is part of the european union's response to the un 2030 agenda for sustainable development.
they also have a wealth of talents that need a supportive environment to express themselves.
they also have a wealth of talents that need a supportive environment to express themselves.
secondly, we are in the best possible situation to develop sustainable solutions which will enable us, despite the limited capacity of transport infrastructure, to meet the growing needs of mobility in an environmentally friendly way.
‒ having regard to draft amending budget no 6/2016 covering the proposal to mobilise the european union solidarity fund, in relation to the floods in germany in may and june 2016, taking into account that the commission therefore proposes to amend the 2016 budget and to increase the appropriations for budget article 13 06 01 'assistance to member states in the event of a major natural disaster with serious consequences for living conditions, the natural environment or the economy' by eur 31 475 125 in both commitment and payment appropriations, and that the european union solidarity fund is a specific instrument as defined in the mff regulation and that the corresponding appropriations should be entered in the budget above and beyond the ceilings, voted in favour of that proposal.
‒ the the report focuses on the importance of updating existing civil liability systems in the member states to ensure that the 'polluter pays' principle is applied not only for environmental damage but also for traditional damage (personal injury/material damage and consequent economic loss).
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, commissioners, we as gue/ngl will not support an energy package which subordinates energy entirely to the needs of the market, making it a tool for the benefit of multinationals and monopolies.
they are asking from 2012 to oversee the energy planning of the states and to have superpowers, thus undermining the sovereign rights of the states.
although some progress has been made in promoting energy efficiency, the 30% target for 2030 is a serious setback compared to the 40% target set by the european parliament.
the same applies to the 27% target for renewable energy sources, instead of the 30% or more requested by the european parliament.
it is also a negative thing that the priority for renewable energy sources in the networks is being eliminated.
once again the commission recognizes the problem of energy poverty but fails to propose a comprehensive action plan to combat it.
it has also failed to provide solutions to serious energy problems, such as the energy isolation of european countries and regions.
it also failed to provide a comprehensive and proper framework for addressing climate change.
parliament needs to introduce new and stricter transparency rules, including obligations to publish information on european vessels targeting deep-sea species and reporting on all fisheries in the ecosystem.
i voted in favour of the report, which raises, among other things, the issue of sustainable management of stocks and the issue of preventing significant adverse impacts on vulnerable marine ecosystems.
on 20 november 2015, the european parliament adopted a resolution on the accession of ecuador to the agreement, welcoming the conclusion of the negotiations and encouraging the swift and full entry into force and application of the agreement, considering that this would allow ecuador to continue its new orientations in terms of promoting policies for sustainable economic and social development of the country, in a context of complex regional and international conditions.
the agreement also supports the implementation of the reformed eu fisheries management system, established in line with the objectives and basic principles of the new common fisheries policy (cfp), in particular the introduction of the landing obligation and mandatory measures to maintain stocks above levels allowing maximum sustainable yield.
‒ we voted against the recommendation for a second reading, as the regulation is no longer compatible with the existing legal environment.
further development of high-speed passenger transport should also make railways more competitive by increasing their market share and contributing to climate change objectives.
‒ the the aim of the proposal is to contribute to efforts to make the trans-european transport network more efficient, interconnected and sustainable by creating a framework to improve port efficiency and help to cope with changes in transport and logistics requirements.
the members are appointed by the council, after consulting the european parliament, for a renewable term of six years.
the members shall elect the chairman from among themselves for a renewable term of three years.
‒ we support the report and call on the commission to amend its proposal accordingly, in accordance with article 293 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and article 106a of the treaty establishing the european atomic energy community.
‒ we voted in favour of the report as it gives an objective picture of the problems facing the coal and steel industries, their environmental performance and the safety of workers in these industries.
in addition, the fund is expected to support the coal and steel industries until more sustainable solutions are found.
‒ the this research focuses on environmental performance, process improvement, resource conservation and occupational safety in the coal and steel sectors.
‒ the in an environment marked by instability and conflict in the middle east and parts of asia and africa, the ensuing migration crisis and repeated terrorist attacks against civilians, 2015 was a year of particular challenges for the european union and the international community in general.
‒ we support the report and stress that the european union faces internal and external challenges, including interstate conflicts, state collapse, terrorism, hybrid threats, cyber and energy insecurity, organised crime and climate change.