let me mention three areas in which we should make progress: the energy sector, which is suffering a market fragmentation, distortion and different levels of national support; the telecoms market, where we should maintain competition and allow the development of a vibrant digital economy; and transport – better road transport will mean huge benefits for people, as we can see, for example, in my country.
i, of course, value quality in health, consumer protection, environmental protection, but this cannot be done in the interests of sustainable development.
the commission's proposal to increase the nox emission limits is an unprecedented step backwards in the field of health and environmental protection.
for the first time in history, the proposal would increase nox emissions from diesel engines by 110% compared to the original plan.
we are now hearing that if we do not accept this commission proposal, the next one will be even weaker, that it is better to have this proposal than no proposal because it would have an even greater impact on the environment.
in addition, i also supported the amendment calling for a review of the bluefin tuna fishing quota system in order to encourage sustainable fishing and enable the protection of small-scale fishermen against the monopoly of large vessel owners.
although i have some doubts about the wording of paragraph 89 concerning distortions of competition, tax evasion and automatic exchange of information on tax evasion, i believe that overall this report will help to create a healthy and fair competitive environment and reduce unemployment.
moreover, its strategy for smart and sustainable growth clearly emphasises the need for policy initiatives to support entrepreneurship.
i therefore welcome the fact that the opinion of the committee on legal affairs has been taken into account and that the report also includes the issue of new rules for cross-border trade, where there is a need to improve the legal protection of consumers in the online environment, the issue of geo-blocking, where there is a need to address the problem of unfair geo-blocking, and the issue of modernisation of copyright rules, where there is a consensus on the need to modernise these rules in the light of the current state of the digital environment.
the right digital environment and non-regulatory framework can help our businesses grow and be more competitive.
i agree that it is necessary to ensure the security and protection of citizens' data in the virtual environment.
i would like to ask you to show commitment and dedicated energy to getting support for the ccctb project in the council and i hope you will succeed.
they are killing the european population, and i'm glad that among the big problems, migration and so on, has remained the environment.
the new regulation aims to simplify the regulatory environment in this area, while ensuring that only products that meet all safety standards and the rules for free movement within the single market enter the eu market.
in the eu, these devices are the most common cause of gas-related deaths, and unfortunately, we also hear from time to time about victims of carbon monoxide poisoning.
i consider the rapporteur's success in particular to be the enforcement of the requirements for preventive measures to prevent carbon monoxide poisoning of persons.
turning the directive into a regulation is in line with my agenda for better regulation as it will simplify the regulatory environment.
the current framework under which the conditions of placing onto the market safety components for cable installations was established by directive 2000/9/ec from 2000. turning the directive into a regulation will simplify the current regulatory environment and ensure a uniform implementation throughout the eu.
the creation of an eu trust fund to support the post-conflict phase is a concrete way for the eu to be with colombia all the way towards sustainable peace.
in ukraine, moldova and georgia, we see that the reforms that are necessary for the very survival and economic and social development of these countries, a stable legal environment, are not being implemented even with large investments from the european union.
the political climate needs to be improved, confrontation and polarization removed and dialogue ensured across the parties in order to strengthen democracy and the rule of law.
the communication sets out our commitment to, and the approach we will propose for, key issues such as trade and sustainable development, including labour and environmental issues, for public services and for investment dispute resolution.
- i am convinced that enhanced political dialogue and closer trade integration will help kosovo in its approach to introducing and implementing the necessary reforms and create a more favourable environment for business development and public administration.
this is particularly the case with respect for and strengthening of the principles of democracy and human rights, cooperation in the fight against crime, and professional cooperation in areas such as energy, the environment, education or culture.
‒ by endorsing this text, parliament appointed the 45 members of the special committee of inquiry into car makers’ breaches of eu rules on car emissions.
in particular, the inquiry will investigate why so called ‘defeat devices'’ were permitted to be installed in millions of cars, why the commission and member states failed to comply with the obligation to enforce eu emissions legislation and why tests reflecting real-world driving conditions were not introduced in a timely manner.
i know that in ukraine, there is a lot of expectation, support and such an impetus for more energy for the reforms that ukraine is carrying out, associated with this promise of visa liberalization.
i agree that successful implementation of the association agreement can only occur if there is a stable political environment in the countries, clear plans for trade policy reform, an institutional set-up with a clear division of powers and other elements that are natural to stable democratic states.
i also believe that the activation of the mutual defence clause is a singular opportunity to establish the grounds for a strong and sustainable european security and defence
mr president, let me explain briefly why i did not vote for the european parliament's opinion on the priorities for the un human rights council.
‒ the i am against the resolution because it blames the current wave of migration on the earth's climate and it is unduly interfering in the israeli-palestinian conflict, it calls for the institution of registered partnerships to be applied in the world, but that should be left to the individual countries.
i certainly welcome the mention of the need to define climate refugees.
there is no doubt that ongoing climate change is threatening many central africans, and they are moving toward more climate-friendly areas.
in view of the potential mass nature of this movement, it is necessary to prepare and develop an appropriate legal framework for climate migration now.
supporting north korea is a drain on the chinese economy, a waste of its natural resources and a shame on chinese honour.
nature, specifically its biodiversity.
it is no secret that the european union is unable to meet its own biodiversity targets either.
the protection of biodiversity must become a political priority.
this is not just to improve the possibility of collecting taxes but also to create a better environment for companies operating in europe.
i believe in the need to protect the atmosphere from toxic emissions.
‒ i have decided to vote in favour of amending the 1998 heavy metal protocol to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution because of the serious danger posed by dangerous air pollutants that can travel up to several thousand kilometres before being deposited.
this has been confirmed by several studies and once again supports the view that pollution must be tackled on a global scale.
the ratification of the amendment will be a significant step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution.
‒ i voted in favour of the amendments to the 1998 protocol to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution on heavy metals.
the convention aims at reducing air pollutant emissions and was amended by eight protocols.
the eu legislation is already fully compliant with the amendments to the 1998 protocol which, in particular, set stricter values for dust emissions and foresee transitional arrangements.
‒ i voted in favour of the amendments to the 1998 protocol to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution on persistent organic pollutants.
the convention aims at reducing air pollutant emissions and was amended by eight protocols.
the 1998 protocol on persistent organic pollutants (pops) aims at reducing those emissions and collecting information on their production and sales.
mr president, i also supported this draft report because diversity is not only one of the central slogans of the european union, but undoubtedly biodiversity is a fundamental value of our territory, of our continent.
it is clear that the strategy has not been very successful so far, and we must realise that biodiversity is not only an economic resource, undoubtedly ecological, but that the protection of the environment and the landscape is a fundamental and essential value.
biodiversity also has an undeniable social function.
however, the environment is one of those areas that definitely deserves good regulation, because what we're leaving to future generations is the legacy, and we can fight cockroaches and rats, but it's important that future generations appreciate that legacy.
the review of the eu biodiversity strategy finds that the agreed 2020 targets are far from being met.
the eu's ecological footprint is twice as large as its biological capacity.
the key is to find the political will to make targeted investments in nature and biodiversity.
the loss of biodiversity is one of the fundamental problems we face as a humanity today.
the loss of ecosystem diversity has immeasurable effects on humans, which may not be obvious today, but they can be fatal.
the european union is a world leader in tackling climate change, a leader in promoting green energy and the green economy, and yet it systematically fails to meet its own targets for protecting and restoring biodiversity.
in 2011, the eu adopted a new strategy for the conservation of biodiversity.
‒ i voted in favour of the own—initiative on the midterm review of the eu’s biodiversity strategy.
by doing so, i underlined together with my colleagues that unless it significantly steps up its efforts, the eu will not attain the objective it set itself to halt the loss of biodiversity and restore it as much as its services working on ecosystems can by 2020.
in writing.
as regards the protection of beehives, i was very pleased to support the sustainable development of this agricultural sector.
‒ biodiversity, the variety of ecosystems, species and habitats, is of vital importance to humans.
it provides a number of ecosystem services, such as clean air and water, that we cannot live without.
biodiversity is under considerable pressure in today's globalised and technological world.
i think that if the eu has to take care of anyone, it is children who are the most vulnerable group, and i think that we need to create a tool, create a safe environment so that unaccompanied children are placed in safe centres where they are taken care of and not left unattended on the streets.
‒ i voted in favour of this report which implements the safeguard clause and the anti-circumvention mechanism providing for the temporary suspension of tariff preferences of the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of moldova, of the other part.
‒ i voted in favour of this report which implements the anti-circumvention mechanism providing for the temporary suspension of tariff preferences of the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part.
‒ i voted together with the majority of the parliament to reject the objection on emissions from passenger and commercial vehicles.
this vote enabled us to clear the way to the second real driving emissions package, to avoid any uncertainties and will now oblige the industry to meet the strict deadlines foreseen by legislation.
i believe it is urgent that stricter rules for car emissions testing apply in europe.
it is understood that when the emission measurement procedure is changed (measurement in normal operation), the engines will show different (higher) emissions.
the transitional measures proposed by the commission to allow cars with emissions above 80 mg nox per km to pass the test are therefore understandable.
‒ after careful consideration, i have decided to abstain, although i am not happy with the commission's decision to introduce emissions tests in normal operation and consider the permitted deviations in emission measurements to be unduly benevolent.
i rely on the commission's promise to apply the review clause to bring emissions levels as close as possible to the approved figures with minimum deviations.
the current value is around 600 mg. the eu should strive for the highest possible emission reductions, the real value of emissions (where our desire to improve the environment is on the one hand, the technological capabilities of manufacturers and the 'life cycle' of innovation in the automotive industry on the other) have been and will be discussed.
although i am very dissatisfied with the form in which the commission has proposed the amendments, and in this respect the objection is entirely justified, i am also aware that the adoption of the objection would dramatically delay the introduction of the rde and would have a negative impact on both the environment and the manufacturer.
any delay in the implementation of this legislation would leave very little time for the necessary changes and would ultimately delay the desired positive environmental impacts.
‒ the european parliament rejected a resolution objecting to a compromise on testing of car emissions and demanding a greater say in the eu’s decision-making process on this issue.
the resolution was motivated mainly by efforts to limit air pollution from car emissions, namely by introducing a narrower margin for testing emissions on the road.
while i believe that stricter rules for car emissions testing should apply, i am however convinced that approval of the resolution would put the entire process into question, create uncertainty for car-making industry and citizens by prolong the process of introducing stricter norms in real driving conditions with very uncertain outcome.
now i however expect the car industry to embrace the new rules and work with us to improve car emissions testing.
our aim should be to liberalise this environment and to protect what is important.
as a member of the itre committee, i will monitor in particular the telecommunications and energy services sectors, which are of vital importance to citizens and contribute to the creation of quality jobs.
the first step towards restoring a true climate of national reconciliation would be to release all political prisoners.
parliament, for example, 'calls on the commission to provide a clear definition of the persistent geographical, natural and demographic disadvantage suffered by island regions' (point 1), 'requests the commission to launch a thorough study/analysis of the excessive costs incurred by islands in relation to the transport of people and goods, energy supply and access to markets' (point 4) and, best of all, 'invites the commission to submit a proposal for a european year of islands and mountains' (point 16).
i agree that the involvement of regions in multi-level eu governance, especially in the bottom-up process, helps sustainable development, job creation and innovation at the level of local and regional economies.
i personally appreciate the great activity of president donald tusk and i want him to take the same action, with the same energy, to address the migration crisis.
is this a sustainable model of the european labour market?
i believe that this measure is vital to reduce unemployment periods to their maximum, encourage labour flexibility and thus increase the competitiveness and sustainability of the european market.
‒ if recovery in the eu is progressively gaining ground in the eu, member states need to continue to pursue structural reforms to make their economies more competitive and build confidence in their economic and business environment to incentivise investors to invest.
it falls short of requesting barriers to entry into the labour market be removed, of more explicitly prescribing reforms such as modernising economies, making social security systems more sustainable and promoting innovation and entrepreneurship.
it is necessary that the measures taken by the european central bank are accompanied by an active policy involving positive, socially balanced structural reforms and sustainable investment.
another point of criticism is the convergence of international standards, which in practice could lead to a reduction in european standards and also to a reduction in consumer or environmental protection.
australia and new zealand are relatively distant from europe, so transporting goods is an unnecessary financial burden and also an environmental burden when european farmers are able to provide similar food.
lastly, the agreement will further strengthen the relations based on the shared values of all partners, as consensus has been reached both on sustainable development and environmental protection, and on the protection of human and workers' rights.
these proposals should bring to all third parties expansion and development in the areas of investment, trade and service provision, energy, public market, health, technological research.
food safety), environmental protection (e.g.
but the text adopted underlines that any agreement must address, ‘in a meaningful way’, investment, the trade in goods and services, e-commerce, public procurement, energy, state-owned enterprises, competition, anti-corruption, regulatory issues such as sanitary and phytosanitary barriers, technology research and, in particular, the needs of smes.
the text also calls for a separate chapter to take account of the needs of smes with regard to market access facilitation issues, and for the inclusion of a ‘robust and ambitious’ chapter on sustainable development, covering core labour standards, the four ilo priority governance conventions and multilateral environmental agreements.
i am convinced that the introduction of better, more applicable and, above all, compatible systems for the registration of pet animals is a crucial step in the protection of animal rights, the protection of the environment and the protection of public health.
exotic animals that survive transport often end up in the unsuitable conditions of untrained owners, suffering from climate change, lack of space and social life, which is vital for wildlife.
the introduction of these wild animals into environments where they have no natural predators may lead to their uncontrolled spread, endanger the environment and public health, and have a negative impact on the economy.
we must therefore protect not only food safety and the environment but also the rights of individual consumers, who are really threatened by this widespread use of antibiotics.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
in fact, the promotion of healthy eating and the focus on the importance of agriculture, health and the environment are all very important today.
as vice-president of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i am very pleased that the european union is also committed to healthy consumer habits for the young generation in europe.
these measures may also serve to educate on related issues such as healthy eating habits, local food chains, organic farming, sustainable production or the fight against food waste.
the text also emphasises environmentally sustainable operations in maritime ports as well as quality requirements.
better organisation and control of port operations will lead to the creation of quality jobs, transparent financing and compliance with environmental commitments.
the commission expects the new revision to create a better competitive environment and to ensure better pay conditions.
i would therefore also point out that if you are going to proceed with the revision of the 1996 posting of workers directive, then you need to ensure that a competitive business environment is maintained.
i refuse to support instant solutions such as transferring funds from one envelope to another or cancelling programmes already approved, especially where they concern environmental, public health or cohesion policy.
‒ sulphur, which is naturally present in small quantities in petroleum and coal, is harmful to man and to the environment when combusted.
in fact, it has been recognised that emissions of sulphur dioxide are one of the causes of acidification and particle formation in the eu, and are one of the factors causing damage to ecosystems, biodiversity and human health.
i hope this will be a step forward in protecting our health, our ecosystems and biodiversity.
we need to ensure that these controls are adequately protected in our legal environment, and that includes mr. assange.
‒ healthy animals are an essential prerequisite for europe’s agriculture, public health and environment.
union regulation of this issue is necessary to ensure a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment, as well as for the functioning of the internal market.
investment is best supported by a healthy competitive environment free of regulation and subsidies.
this aid should be conditional on putting an end to human rights violations and re-orientating the country’s energy policy to make energy accessible for everyone.
some of the measures adopted so far under eu pressure, such as the merger of municipalities, are completely meaningless, while in other proposals it is necessary to provide the funds (environment) for their implementation.
i firmly believe that all relevant political parties will be able to find a way to create the optimal environment for the organisation of the elections and that they will respect the provisions of the political agreement concluded last july with the mediated assistance of the european union.
it is now important that all parties re-engage in sustainable dialogue and constructive cooperation within the montenegrin parliament.
and that residue is all over our environment, our food, and ourselves.
i therefore requested the opinion of the czech ministry of agriculture and environment, which was consulted, participated in the decision-making process and recommended that we as members of parliament support the opinion of the european commission.
i want to support, of course, all initiatives that lead to what is the subject of today's debate in this report, namely the achievement of sustainable development of fisheries and, of course, of biological diversity within the seas and marine environment.
on the other hand, we must also acknowledge that the european union is also facing impacts that are reflected in the loss of biodiversity.
excessive nitrogen and phosphorus input, which may be the cause of eutrophication; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
the parliament recognises that if the eu fleet ceases its activities in the fishing grounds of a third country, the fishing rights concerned are normally allocated to other fleets, which apply much lower conservation, management and sustainability standards than those set and protected by the eu.
this is a temporary instrument before the economic partnership agreements (epas) compatible with the world trade organisation (wto) come into place in october 2016. this initiative supports regional integration and promotes the gradual integration of the acp economies into the rules-based world trading system, fostering their sustainable development and contributing to the effort to eradicate poverty and to enhance living conditions in the acp countries.
its aim is to strengthen cooperation between the eu and greenland, and to promote a partnership in which to develop a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible exploitation of fishery resources in the greenlandic fishing zone.
europol is an agency that doesn't help security, it's a waste of taxpayers' money.
in my opinion, it is very important that the biodiversity of the seas, the marine environment, be preserved.
i would point out that it is coastal settlement that makes it very difficult to maintain this biodiversity, and that the eu should also play its part in this respect.
on the other hand, i would also like to say that if a certain fishing area is abandoned, which the eu and its member state are currently fishing for, it is then taken over by a completely different state, which does not take these environmental aspects into account at all.
in my view, the eu should push the international community to make the protection of biodiversity a genuine and integral part of the protection of the marine environment.
i therefore consider it very important to work towards the conservation of biodiversity, the maintenance of healthy marine habitats and fish stocks.
i therefore warmly welcome the proposal of the un working group to create a legally binding international instrument, within the framework of the united nations convention on the law of the sea, aimed at the conservation and sustainable use of marine biodiversity in areas beyond national jurisdiction.
i believe that this new agreement is necessary in view of the obsolescence of the existing legal framework, which does not correspond to the dynamics of change, for example, with the number of activities developed in the marine environment.
these changes have a major impact on the conservation of marine ecosystems and on the sustainable use of oceans and seas and their resources.
given the important role the eu plays in the sustainable management of living marine resources, greater involvement in international cooperation is necessary.
‒ the sea is home to a large part of the world’s biodiversity, and its preservation is a common concern for all humankind.
in 2015, the un working group studying that topic recommended the development of an international, legally binding instrument under the un convention on the law of the sea (unclos) to manage pollution and the increasing dangers to marine biodiversity.
‒ i have agreed to adopt the proposal for a regulation on zootechnical and genealogical conditions for trade in and imports into the union of breeding animals and their germinal products in order to promote free trade in breeding animals and their genetic material, with a view to the sustainability of breeding programmes and the conservation of genetic resources.
this regulation aims to promote a free internal market, simplify import conditions, while maintaining the level and quality of breeding programmes in the eu and protecting european biodiversity.
breeding plays a key role in conserving rare breeds and thereby in protecting biodiversity.
the report on the programme for the effectiveness and efficiency of legislation, in line with my view, points out that a comprehensive impact assessment should be carried out alongside a cost-benefit analysis, covering in particular the economic, social and environmental consequences and the impact on citizens' fundamental rights and gender equality.
i believe that better regulation of the single market will create a competitive regulatory environment that will help to preserve jobs and businesses in europe, which will contribute to long-term growth in the european union and thus to the well-being of its citizens.
the expected consequences of adopting this report are welcome, in particular the provision of a competitive regulatory environment for our businesses, the promotion of growth and job creation and, last but not least, the strengthening of confidence in european legislation.
i supported the report, among other reasons, because mobility in education and training is important for personal development, social inclusion of young people, multicultural dialogue, tolerance, the ability to work in an intercultural environment and active citizenship, and has clearly demonstrated its contribution in terms of high-quality education and employability.
erasmus+ adds to the added value of the original erasmus programme by allowing people not only to study abroad, but also to gain work experience in an international environment through traineeships in a wide range of fields.
i see its importance in particular in the fact that it is an important and, in most cases, the only form of livelihood for many people, and also one of the most environmentally sustainable fisheries.
‒ i am convinced of the importance of the eu's role and of international cooperation in the conservation of sustainable fish stocks and biodiversity.
for developing countries, fishing is a traditional way of life, a source of livelihood, the basis of the economy and therefore of economic development, and i believe that it is the eu's responsibility to promote environmentally and socially sustainable fishing in third countries.
in order to gain a competitive advantage, some countries are willing to accept lower environmental, social or safety standards.
i am therefore convinced that this chapter will bring further positive benefits, leading to the eu maintaining its leadership in high standards, environmental and social sustainability of fisheries and strict implementation of international instruments.
only in this way can the eu remain a role model for other countries and build its competitiveness in fisheries on the basis of quality and sustainability.
however, increasingly important players such as china, korea and taiwan, have adopted aggressive policies that are not strictly in line with environmental or fair market policies, to obtain access to declining resources.
this gives the eu a competitive advantage by being better in the environmental and social sustainability of fisheries, strict implementation of international instruments and market regulation.
coping with this environment and change represents a gigantic challenge for member states and their municipal authorities.
i believe that this is an important instrument to alleviate the sometimes harsh consequences of globalisation, reduce unemployment periods to their maximum, encourage labour flexibility and thus increase the competitiveness and sustainability of european market.
the fund is key to reduce unemployment periods to their maximum, encourage labour flexibility and thus increase the competitiveness and sustainability of european market.
in voting against the objection raised by the environment committee, i de facto supported the decision of the european commission to renew the authorisation for the chemical glyphosate.
i would like to stress the importance of the requirement that the eu must ensure the security of energy and raw materials supply while taking into account the consequences of climate change that need to be addressed urgently, and that the eu must play a leading role in the global response to this change and in promoting sustainable development.
i voted in favour of the european parliament's report on the eu in a changing global environment a more connected, contested and complex world, which is the european parliament's contribution to the new eu global security strategy being prepared by the high representative for foreign affairs and security policy.
in this respect, i am convinced that the european union must play a leading role in the global response to climate change and be able to address these changes rapidly, thereby ensuring its energy security.
i supported the european parliament resolution of 13 april 2016 on the implementation and review of the eu strategy for central asia, in particular because it states that it is in the key interest of china, the eu and russia to build a strategic, modern and interoperable road and rail infrastructure system along the silk road and that successful integration of the region through modern and reliable infrastructure would be an excellent opportunity not only for deeper regional economic integration but also for promoting mobility of the population and multicultural exchanges, while creating a more favourable environment for progress on rule of law and democracy.
for me, as a member of the itre committee, central asia's role as a strategic partner for the eu in the efforts to diversify energy sources and ensure energy security is key.
i will support the modernisation and diversification of the economies of the countries in the region and the creation of an enabling environment for foreign investment, subject to the strengthening of the rule of law, the improvement of the business environment, judicial reform and ensuring more comprehensive protection of property rights and foreign investment.
the report itself also addresses the educational gaps in these areas, and helps to build trade and promote sustainable development in these regions.
‒ central asia is a natural bridge between eastern asia and europe, but also a region of increasingly strategic importance due to its important energy resources.
i am fully aware of the importance of the central asian region to the eu in terms of its economic potential, energy diversification and geostrategic and security interests.
at the same time, i am also convinced of the importance of close cooperation in this area with the united states, russia and china, with a view to ensuring long-term and sustainable development.
i am very pleased that we are able to keep parliament's expenditure under control even in such a difficult period and that parliament is continuing on the path of inquiry by introducing further environmental measures.
this text will allow the creation of a safe, trustworthy and fair environment for european companies, by better securing their know-how while protecting whistle-blowers and journalists’ work.
as a member of the committee on industry, research and energy, i very much welcome and support the proposal for this directive, which is also part of the wider europe 2020 strategy in which the commission has committed itself to creating an innovation union.
this directive is a further step towards creating a better environment for innovation by enterprises and a more favourable environment for new projects.
at a time when we are focusing on promoting sustainable development, poverty reduction, small and medium-sized enterprises, the private sector and its interaction with the public sector, it is necessary to highlight the importance of the protection of trade secrets, as this provides a clear competitive advantage to the holders of such information and breach of this protection would seriously undermine their economy.
the protection of trade secrets should be actively addressed at member state level in order to create a high-quality and favourable environment for trade, business, science, research and investment in other sectors in all countries of the european union.
other issues of common interest also include the fight against terrorism, the economy, trade and energy.
the ep calls on the turkish government to take responsibility for the resumption of negotiations to find a comprehensive and sustainable solution to the kurdish question and to overcome its reservations about the participation of the kurds in the geneva peace talks.
instead, europe and turkey urgently need an enhanced positive agenda with a focus on energy, foreign policy, civil society dialogue, trade and visa liberalisation.
nor can the development of renewable energy sources and environmental protection be given the same importance as the development of employment in industry and agriculture.
‒ i voted in favour of this report as i support measures to prevent energy poverty in european households.
that is why i could not agree with that part of the text declaring a right to receive energy without actually paying for it.
how can anyone have a problem with ending poverty, energy poverty, ensuring access to water and affordable housing?
as the eu continues to move away from this objective, i welcome this report, which seeks to raise awareness of this issue and at the same time to bridge the gap between social and energy policy in the european debate.
to this end, it proposes targeting existing renewable energy and energy efficiency projects to poor households.
i consider it particularly important to target european funds correctly on households in energy poverty.
given the significant increase in the number of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion between 2008 and 2013, more energy needs to be invested in addressing this issue.
i supported the empl report, which was drawn up on my own initiative and focuses on poverty reduction in the context of rising housing costs and energy poverty.
it is the key to sustainable growth and wealth creation.
for this purpose, we have to help developing countries create an environment friendly for private initiatives by cutting red tape and improving the general business climate.
however, read this part of his text carefully: whereas in developing countries, public-private partnerships are currently being formed for the most part in the energy, infrastructure and telecommunications sectors, while the potential in sectors such as agriculture, water, hygiene, education, green technology, research and innovation, healthcare or property rights remains largely untapped.
‒ strengthening the role of the private sector is undoubtedly an important activity that will contribute to the development of less developed countries and promote sustainable development.
partnerships with the private sector, with full recognition of the commitment to good governance by the private sector, can demonstrate a contribution to reducing poverty and inequality, creating wealth through sustainable investment and promoting human rights, delivering environmental benefits and strengthening the local economy.
private investment in transport, access to drinking water, health and education will be key to enhancing living standards and competitiveness and maximising sustainable development.
‒ the role of the public sector can be fundamental to the achievement of sustainable development goals (sdgs), and therefore needs to be encouraged.
investing in the development of the private sector can lessen dependency on aid, reduce poverty, increase tax income and create sustainable wealth.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because i am fully aware of the potential of the private sector to achieve sustainable development in the long term.
i personally believe that the private and public sectors work most effectively when they work together to create a healthy environment for investment, business activity and to build the foundations for economic growth.
member of the commission.– mr president, connected, cooperative and automated driving offer great potential to improve road safety, traffic flows and the overall efficiency and environmental performance of the transport system.
with a strong spirit of partnership, the commission is working towards a shared european strategy on connected and automated driving as part of the energy union, research, innovation and competitiveness strategy.
highly—automated vehicles can, to a large extent, already comply with conventional-type approval requirements, for instance general construction and emissions.
on the contrary, their sole purpose is to assess whether the eu budgetary resources are not only spent in accordance with the formal and legislative rules but also contribute to the real effects and impacts of the economic, social and environmental development of the european union.
iter is undoubtedly the most ambitious energy project in the world, involving not only the european union but also other very important countries.
the european union, through fusion for energy, is one of the most important partners.
these countries are working together to build the tokamak, a precursor to the commercial use of fusion energy.
in the last parliamentary term we spent a lot of energy on the debate on trans-european corridors and cross-border interconnection of transport networks.
cross-border cooperation is most often carried out for the purpose of investigating and prosecuting offences in the form of illicit trafficking in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, hazardous and toxic waste, but also cultural goods or goods liable to taxation in order to avoid the fulfilment of the tax obligation.
however, further regulation is still needed as the european railway environment still faces many obstacles, especially in the area of entrepreneurship.
i have tried to reduce the waste of resources by at least voting to abolish the lux prize, freezing meps' allowances or abolishing the contribution to european parties and institutions.
this is a waste of the people's money.
‒ i don't think this agency has any positive impact on energy prices.
the agency implements the eu’s chemicals legislation, ensures that the chemicals do not harm human health and the environment, and contributes to europe’s innovation and competitiveness.
the environment should be protected, but by agreements between states, not through a €52 million agency.
‒ i voted in favour of granting the european environment agency discharge regarding the 2014 budget, as the budget was compliant with all the relevant rules, and served to provide independent information on the environment for policy-makers and the public.
the only thing that can be done is to free up the business environment so that innovation can emerge in the market.
‒ i voted in favour of granting the european maritime safety agency discharge regarding the 2014 budget, as it complied with the rules, and served to provide technical assistance and support regarding the implementation and development of eu legislation on maritime safety, ship pollution and maritime security.
the joint undertaking thus contributed to developing breakthrough technologies to achieve the single european sky environmental objectives, namely less noisy and more fuel efficient aircraft.
‒ i am in favour of developing technologies in the energy sector.
‒ i voted in favour of granting the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking discharge regarding the 2014 budget, as it complied with the given rules, and therefore contributed to achieving a carbon-lean energy system to accelerate the potential of fuel cell and hydrogen energy technologies.
‒ iter is arguably the most ambitious energy project in the world, with the eu and other countries, including the us, participating in the fusion for energy joint undertaking.
these countries are working together to build the tokamak, which should become the first step towards the commercial use of thermonuclear fusion in energy.
‒ i voted in favour of postponing the discharge for iter and the development of fusion energy regarding the 2014 budget, as despite progress being made in several areas, there was not enough information about the revised schedule and cost estimate of the iter project
in writing.
i would like to highlight the fact that in 2014 the eib launched new innovative instruments to support climate action, such as private financing for the energy efficiency instrument and the natural capital financing instrument, but i am not satisfied that eib support for renewable energy capacity building in 2014 was predominantly concentrated in the five largest eu economies and only eur 42 million out of a total of eur 4,5 billion was spent on renewable energy projects in the 13 new member states including the czech republic.
moreover, a similar concentration of financial support to the old eu member states can be traced back to the energy efficiency sector, where out of a total of eur 2 billion, only eur 148 million was allocated to the 13 new member states, including the czech republic.
i therefore welcome the call in the report to set the share of future investments in renewable energy capacity development and energy efficiency in the new member states and to gradually increase these shares to 30% of total investments in those areas by 2020. however, this should be accompanied by the provision of expertise to improve the capacity to prepare viable projects that will allow more investment in the energy sector.
i also see the launch of a new innovation instrument to support climate action as a positive contribution.
i believe that it is such innovations and programmes that can help to maintain the eu's leadership in environmental and energy sustainability.
mr president, the commission has made a number of important innovations in the direction of the european energy union.
in other words, we have a project which is clearly not heading in the direction of the energy union, but which – even worse – is splitting the european union apart.
so we are already fragmenting the unity that we need in order to be able to back the energy union before we have even started to dwell on concrete legislative proposals.
in addition, the overproduction that china produces is also linked to the low social and environmental standard of the products.
‒ the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement with liberia is certainly one of the instruments for maintaining good relations with that country and will also be beneficial for the union, as it will allow eu member states' vessels to fish in liberian waters.
the aim is to strengthen eu-liberia cooperation and to promote a sustainable fisheries policy and joint action against illegal fishing.
i supported the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement and the implementation protocol between the european union and the republic of liberia.
i believe that this agreement could bring change, particularly in the area of illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, which in many cases has a negative impact on the health of fish stocks and the marine ecosystem.
this illegal fishing practice emerged especially after the civil war and has an adverse impact not only from an environmental point of view, but also financially damages liberian fishermen and the state budget.
the commission has also concluded that the agreement between liberia and the union on the sustainable fisheries partnership is in line with the principles of the union's fisheries policy and the principles of the union's fisheries policy.
‒ i voted in favour of a sustainable fisheries partnership agreement with liberia, as it will bring both economic and political benefits to liberia and the eu.
this will also be a big step forward in the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing, which has grown significantly during the years of civil war, and for spreading the common fisheries policy (cfp) objective of a sustainable management of fisheries and aquaculture activities.
it is also a means of achieving the long-term objectives of the eu's common fisheries policy, namely responsible use of resources, sustainable fishing and the fight against illegal or overfishing.
‒ i voted in favour of the new protocol renewing the eu-mauritania fisheries partnership agreement, which grants the eu certain fishing rights in mauritanian waters in return for financial, technical and environmental support to the mauritanian fishing economy.
i see their contribution in their emphasis on integrated investments that would help sustainable development.
this is an opportunity for our towns and cities and it will be up to them to seize it by being able to put forward quality projects in the field of sustainable rural and urban development.
these projects will also contribute to promoting investment, sustainable and inclusive growth and contribute to poverty reduction and social inclusion.
i supported the european parliament resolution of 10 may 2016 on a cohesion policy for mountain regions in the eu, also because mountain regions contribute positively to sustainable development, to combating climate change and to preserving and protecting ecosystems and the biodiversity of regional ecosystems.
this is important as mountain regions are particularly vulnerable to climate change, hydrogeological risks that have particularly significant impacts in these areas, including due to the increasing number of natural disasters that can impact on surrounding areas and negative consequences for economic development and tourism.
moreover, smes in mountain regions face serious difficulties due to lack of accessibility, infrastructure, connectivity and human resources and it was therefore necessary to call on the commission to pay particular attention to the development of smes in mountain areas, in particular those affected by natural disasters and disasters caused by climate change.
according to the report, creating new jobs in the green economy should be one of the investment priorities of the esi funds, which are intended to support training in areas such as mountain farming and renewable energy technologies.
this is not only about a more sustainable energy policy, for example, but also about the creation of so-called green jobs, which are compatible with sustainable economic development and can help social inclusion of the population.
‒ mountain regions are often neglected in eu policies, and yet they are perhaps the most challenging environment to live in.
i think it's important to preserve the population in these areas while providing jobs for the people who live there, especially in the environment.
mountains hold a lot of potential and therefore also opportunities for new jobs that would improve eu employment while contributing to the fight against climate change.
i am convinced that the rich natural resources and benefits of mountain areas can create jobs that will improve employment in the eu, especially in terms of green jobs that can contribute to the fight against climate change.
mountain areas as centres of green growth can themselves be a driving force for sustainable development in the eu.
they also make the european union a more attractive environment for talented people from all over the world.
‒ i voted in favour of the proposal to extend the exemptions for commodity dealers to be exempted from large exposure requirement and from own fund requirements until 2020. this will save commodity dealers from an unstable regulatory environment in the short term, and avoid them from disbursing their own funds that they need to have in order to continue their activities and the related costs of performing those activities.
the internet environment associated with terrorist propaganda, in particular by the islamic state, is the focus of europol's specialised centre, the internet referral unit, which has been operational since july 2015. this unit systematically combats hateful content on the internet and removes harmful content in cooperation with the internet service provider.
‒ the cohesion policy is the eus main tool to invest in and develop eu regions and cities, in order to promote job creation, business competitiveness, economic growth, sustainable development, and improve citizens’ quality of life.
i would like to reiterate once again that freedom without responsibility is simply not possible and is not sustainable.
the very limited scope of reporting information allowed will not lead to an excessive burden on companies and at the same time will create a fair environment for tax collection.
eventually it will contribute to boost the economic development of coastal communities while encouraging more ethical and environmental production of fishery and aquaculture products.
it is not just an anti-dumping issue, but of course an environmental issue, environmental damage, which has far-reaching consequences for the global state of the environment.
i believe that the eu must have an interest in protecting our domestic environment where it faces unfair competitive pressures or unfair trade practices that are not part of international trade.
we see already that the overcapacity of the chinese market has a strong and negative social, economic and environmental impact in our economy, especially on the steel sector.
‒ giving china market economy status would threaten europe's energy-intensive industries such as steel.
it would not be able to compete with subsidised chinese production, even due to excessive environmental and other eu regulations.
the 2030 agenda for sustainable development and the sustainable development goals were adopted by the un general assembly in september 2015. it is a renewed international commitment to eradicate poverty, redefine and modernise our development strategies over the next 15 years.
the document contains 17 new sustainable development goals and 169 targets, which strike a balance between the three dimensions of sustainable development - environmental, social and economic - in areas such as poverty, inequality, food security, health, sustainable consumption and production, growth, employment, infrastructure, sustainable management of natural resources and climate change, as well as gender equality.
given the importance of european and global development policy, i supported the resolution on the monitoring and the current status of the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the follow-up and state of play of the agenda 2030 and sustainable development goals, as i believe that it is crucial that the eu adopts a coherent and common position to ensure its leadership on this ambitious agenda.
the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals embody a courageous international commitment to eradicate poverty and develop new development strategies for the next 15 years, and we should work hard to formulate an eu sustainable development strategy to play our part in delivering on its objectives.
while today's proposal is presented as part of the digital single market strategy, please bear in mind that effective enforcement is far from limited to the online environment.
and on climate change, relevant as it is, we need a global deal, and we need everyone to really put in the effort so that we have a harmonised effect.
even if i were to exclude the thousands of people who die every year from these substances, which i cannot, the estimated economic impact alone of exposing people in the eu to these substances is twice as high as the impact of mercury and lead pollution.
the energy union must be seen through the eyes of the consumer and the issue of reasonable electricity bills is undoubtedly one of the most important issues.
the report on the table contains some positive points, such as the use of own energy resources.
of course, i can see that there is a phenomenon where the poorest part of the population can't afford to pay for energy.
do we need a europe-wide definition of energy poverty?
the problem of high energy prices can be solved by an energy market.
the third energy package is not fully implemented in all countries.
that is a fact – some more, some less – but it is also a fact that our economies and our industries need restructuring – that we really need to have policies that are oriented on growth, and we need to improve the business environment, the entrepreneurship skills, etc.
by all means, energy union, energy diversification etc.
but let me stress and finish by saying that what we really need is a new energy market design, because we have a distorted market.
do you think that the problem of energy poverty is a problem that the eu as a whole, and the commissioner in particular, should address, or is it the sole responsibility of the eu member states?
i am aware of our obligation to create a single energy market and of course the energy union is already a long-standing remnant of what the eu was supposed to create.
when it comes to energy poverty, i don't really care if we say that energy poverty and access to energy is a basic social right.
we will certainly agree that it is essential to tackle the problem of energy poverty, which is affecting more and more people in europe, in the context of the energy union.
in the case of electricity, energy poverty leads to defaults.
whereas in the case of thermal energy, people are drowning in cheap and unfriendly fuels that harm both them and the environment.
in this context, however, it is also necessary to finally adopt a common definition of energy poverty in the light of the energy poverty problem.
the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of the 'one country, two systems' principle to the energy sector.
a common definition will therefore allow us to unify the meaning of this concept in the individual countries and thus set precise parameters by which the incidence of energy poverty can be measured.
the energy union should therefore aim primarily at addressing this key pan-european phenomenon, while at the same time creating a secure and truly functional energy market.
i therefore welcome the resolution's strong rejection of the current form of discrimination, both in and out of the electronic environment.
virtual currencies are a fast-developing technology that, like other novelties of the digital environment, is currently not subject to fixed and enforceable rules and is not subject to oversight.
i am in favour of the energy union project and i support the creation of a single energy market, but in this area we must really weigh up the so-called pharmaceutical scales, which measures will be centralised or unified and which will remain entirely within the member states.
as regards this particular report, i appreciate that it seeks to strengthen the competitiveness of european companies entering the energy market, it clearly strengthens the requirement for transparency and its aim is to create a well-functioning system for energy markets.
it is important to me that the social right of individual consumers is also anchored here, which aims to tackle energy poverty.
‒ in this report, parliament calls for a new deal for eu energy consumers.
it calls for better consumer choice, greater awareness, transparency and greater use of information and communication technologies to help reduce energy consumption and household electricity costs.
i believe we need to implement liberalisation measures and ensure that european consumers have a truly transparent and competitive energy market.
under the heading of implementing a new policy for energy consumers, there is a rather extensive report which, in nine pages, brings some interesting ideas.
the shameful statement of the need to eliminate energy poverty is sympathetic.
similarly, the declaratory call for reasonable prices, including the recognition that one price should be at the top and another outside, remains in the background, the author also speaks of a price advantage for entities that have the ability to provide energy storage to the system.
it is recommended to check the increase of fixed components in the invoices, a classic case of a jump in the fixed component of the energy price is the attempt of large suppliers to significantly increase the price for connection to the electricity grid, or to derive the price of connection from the size of the breaker.
i voted against this proposal because i do not agree that the european union should adopt more legislation and more regulation in the energy sector.
on the contrary, i think it is eu policy that, in the form of 'renewable energy' surcharges, electricity and gas taxes and high vat, is making energy unaffordable, especially for the poor.
i welcomed the fact that today's report focuses exclusively on household energy consumers in the context of the energy transition, as i believe that industrial consumers should fall within a specific framework.
in the report, we set ourselves ambitious targets such as eradicating energy poverty, better protecting consumers and guaranteeing their full right to information and free choice of energy supplier, as well as keeping retail prices affordable.
i also agree that unfair trading practices must be combated and that the most vulnerable energy consumers must be protected in particular.
‒ i supported the report on the implementation of the new energy policy for consumers and agree with its call for increasing the share of renewable energy sources, achieving energy savings and improving energy efficiency.
i am of the opinion that member states should fully implement the provisions on switching suppliers set out in the third energy package and that national legislation must guarantee consumers the right to switch suppliers quickly, easily and free of charge, without the possibility of switching suppliers being hindered by termination fees or fines.
with regard to the social dimension of energy consumption, the report rightly points out that in some member states there has been an increase in complaints concerning doorstep selling.
‒ on 15 july 2015, the european commission adopted a communication ‘delivering a new deal for energy consumers’ as part of the ‘summer energy package’.
this communication places citizens in the centre of the energy union strategy and focuses on: helping consumers save money and energy through better information; giving consumers a wider choice of action when choosing their participation in energy markets; and maintaining the highest level of consumer protection.
the itre committee own-initiative report welcomes the new deal and highlights the ongoing transition towards a more decentralised, energy-efficient and flexible energy system.
the rapporteur, theresa griffin, aimed at number of actions with a view to empower citizens to produce their own renewable energy and become more energy-efficient.
the report proposed number of interesting ideas, it however proposed to tackle an issue of energy poverty in very specific way.
i voted in favour of the report, i however decided not to support rapporteur’s proposal to develop inclusive non-quantitative definition of energy poverty as a basic social right.
in the roll-call vote, i rejected, for example, the problematic passage on the common definition of energy poverty.
‒ i support this report and share the view of the parliament that the energy union should focus on the interests of eu citizens first and foremost.
however, i am personally concerned that five years after the date of the introduction of the third energy package, its objective of ensuring a truly competitive and consumer-friendly retail market has still not been achieved.
however, there should also be a strict control of energy suppliers operating on the european market.
i do not agree with the eu creating a definition of equal value work (paragraph 20) or energy poverty (paragraph 53).
i therefore welcome the fact that, thanks to the contribution of the social democrats, the resolution does not in any way affect the right of the member states to regulate and pursue legitimate public policy objectives aimed specifically at protecting consumers, workers or the environment.
i am confident that by ensuring a more uniform regulatory environment, making full use of digitisation, and guaranteeing mutual recognition where harmonisation is not possible, we can unleash the full potential of the single market and boost europe’s competitiveness.
for example, the eu should aim to reduce administrative burdens, get rid of unnecessary legislation, while ensuring a high level of standards for consumers, workers, health and the environment.
we should focus more on social, environmental, health, employment, etc.
europe should exploit the full potential of digitalisation and innovation, create a more start-up and risk friendly environment, but also ensure that legislation, namely in the area of taxation, is harmonised across member states.
lowering administrative burdens and compliance costs on businesses, especially smes, and repealing unnecessary legislation, while continuing to ensure high standards of consumer, employee, health and environmental protection, is key to delivering the objectives of the strategy.
you have to face the so-called truth, and i really appreciate this report, because it describes all the crisis areas, whether it's migration, whether it's trade and finance, whether it's food security or health, whether it's climate change or security, all of these are described in a very truthful way, in my opinion.
i should like to point out that the author, mr preda, also mentions in the report the impact of the european union's policies, which we should examine in the areas of agriculture, trade and energy.
we certainly have different views on many things, but we must have a debate on how to eliminate as much as possible the risks of accidents and ensure energy and civil safety.
balancing the bargaining power along the chain will enhance competitiveness, contribute to sustainable development and a diverse choice of quality and affordable food for the final consumer.
the report on technological solutions for sustainable agriculture in the eu could be supported provided that it takes into account the independence and diversity of eu farmers, the health and environmental impacts, the reality of climate change and eu food safety law.
it talks about food shortages, but it doesn't mention that food waste is a fundamental problem.
increasing technological harmonisation and international regulatory cooperation can promote a transparent, effective, pro-competitive economic environment while developing and securing the highest levels of protection of health and safety.
also, i could not agree with the statement that trade liberalisation is not positive for a poverty eradication and has negative effects on sustainable development.
i was very pleased to support the european parliament resolution on the eu report on policy coherence for development for 2015. i'm glad we're focusing on sustainable development these days.
for example, the final text includes a point stating that: 'trade liberalisation is not in itself positive in terms of reducing poverty and inequality, as it could have negative consequences for sustainable development'.
the report also calls for new taxes: 'it is necessary to consider innovative and diversified sources of funding such as a financial transaction tax, a carbon tax, a surcharge on air tickets, rents from natural resources'.
the impact of eu policies on developing countries, for example in agriculture, trade or energy, also needs to be considered.
i also welcome the commitment to promote sustainable and agroecological practices.
it is not possible, for example, that poorly designed biofuel policies in modern countries endanger the livelihoods of the poorest on other continents, who are also more vulnerable to global climate change.
the ep resolution on the 2016 mff analyses and formulates concrete recommendations on five priority areas (trade and finance, food security, climate change, migration and security).
i supported the european parliament's report on the eu's 2015 report on policy coherence for development, as it addresses the important topic of policy coherence in general to promote sustainable development, and also because it mentions the importance of development aid in the context of the current migration crisis.
‒ the 2030 sustainable development agenda represents a unique opportunity to review the coherence of our development strategies to ensure that they actually improve people’s lives.
furthermore, i don’t believe in using instruments such as a financial transaction tax, a carbon tax, an air ticket levy, rents from natural resources as sustainable sources of financing.
‒ i have decided to support the report presented because i believe that trade and direct finance are one of the main priorities for policy coherence and a pathway to sustainable development.
i am of the opinion that private funding for individual climate action cannot replace public funding.
the situation is complicated, however, by the prospect of further waves of migration in the future, due to global warming.
in addition, the continent, like the world, should meet the un sustainable development goals by 2030, in particular the goals related to the elimination of hunger and poverty.
as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i appreciate that the report 'urgently calls on g8 member states not to promote genetically modified crops in africa'.
the report also calls on member states to ensure that eu-based companies doing business in africa apply a 'social responsibility policy' in africa, and ensure that 'environmental, social, land, labour and human rights and the highest standards of transparency' are respected, and that 'local african businesses' are supported.
i also agree that food security in developing countries depends to a large extent on the sustainable use of natural resources.
the data show that stability is higher and emigration rates are lower in areas where food security is based on healthy and vibrant soils and productive agricultural ecosystems that are resilient to climate change.
as a result of such focus, we are able to move in line with previous agreements on climate change and sustainable agriculture as well as diversify crop production, increase living standards and develop rural areas – effectively reducing poverty.
increasing productivity through the use of chemical fertilizers, mechanization and monocultures, as this approach can have serious environmental impacts.
however, monoculture, mechanisation, biotechnology, dependence on fertilisers, long distribution channels and the production of export crops have proven to be harmful to the poorest communities and pose a risk to the environment.
i voted in favour of this report, as i agree that, if we want to make it a genuine instrument of support for family farming and local economies in sub-saharan africa, we need to invest in a model of agriculture which is sustainable, pro-smallholder farming and pro-women, and which unlocks the potential of domestic and regional markets.
the new alliance should limit the use of chemical fertilizers and pesticides as much as possible, given their health and environmental impacts on local communities.
however, these measures must go hand in hand with the protection of biodiversity and respect for indigenous knowledge and innovation.
i believe that it is of course true that peacekeeping operations are a form of crisis response and are intended to prevent armed conflict, restore, maintain or build peace, promote peace agreements and address complex emergencies and problems caused by failing or weak states, and that the aim of peacekeeping operations is to help create a stable, secure and more prosperous environment in the long term, but the resolutions ignore the fact that in the past, great peacekeeping missions have not been successful at all in terms of long-term stability and peace.
they have taken advantage of porous borders and ungoverned areas to expand their control, making the importance of investment in conflict prevention and peace support operations (psos) vital to building african capabilities and accomplishing the 2030 agenda for sustainable development.
but the other consequences of these practices are poor working conditions for farmers, a lower quality food supply for consumers and food waste.
this should ensure fair returns for farmers, a wide choice of food for consumers and at the same time reduce food waste.
our group of social democrats has finally succeeded in getting the report to deal with food waste through amendments.
now, it's imperative that we have solutions to have sustainable agriculture that can feed the world's population.
i also believe that this report will help to improve the environment by reducing the use of chemicals, fertilisers and pesticides.
‒ i am convinced that investing in innovative practices in the agriculture sector is crucial for the eu to develop a model of sustainable agriculture and to remain competitive in this domain.
our main task will be to develop more resource-efficient agricultural practices, encourage crop variety to ensure biodiversity, increase food safety and tackle food waste.
prioritising investment in the circular economy and climate-smart farming practices will be of particular relevance to achieve our goal.
this is why i voted in favour of this report, which makes a series of observations and recommendations as how to meet the challenges of climate change, rising food demand, population growth and threats to the environment.
i firmly believe that economic development and sustainable production are not mutually exclusive and are achievable mainly through innovation, research and development, new governance, business models and improved agronomy.
add to this the dangerous work environment, which often either catches fire or completely collapses on the defenseless worker.
i think that if we speak of the investment environment, of the climate, of the conditions, then we should also look at the existing legislation, without lowering standards – this is not the point that i would like to raise – but still cutting significantly the administrative burden for businesses, especially for smes.
in that context, the union committed itself, within the framework of its sustainable development strategy, to deepening cooperation and integrating the african, caribbean and pacific states into the world economy.
the protocol brings change, in particular, in the area of stricter pollution liability regimes.
in the event of ratification of the convention as amended by the protocol by member states, the resulting legislation may partially overlap with the adaptation under directive 2004/35/ec aimed at preventing and remedying environmental damage.
the report also recommends, inter alia, that the integrity and effectiveness of the eu's common rules should not be adversely affected by the international obligations arising from the convention, and warns against the possibility of the continued existence of two regimes, one eu and the other international, of legal liability for marine pollution.
the main objective of the protocol is to strengthen the liability regime for marine pollution by dangerous substances in connection with their transport.
the european union is also committed to the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis for the european union's policy on the environment.
despite this new achievement however, the eu should continue providing financial support and capacity-building assistance to the philippines for poverty alleviation and tackling climate change.
on the other hand, this does not mean that we can afford to waste the limited financial resources provided by european citizens.
accompanying the successor imf programme, this assistance programme will support the efforts made by tunisia to improve its budgetary position and balance of payments and bring about a climate more conducive to investment.
i also agree that a comprehensive approach is needed to address crises, armed conflicts in neighbourhoods, the deterioration of living conditions, as well as climate change and poverty.
indeed endocrine disruptors are chemicals which interfere with the hormonal system, potentially causing damage to health and the environment.
i personally believe that this is a dangerous gamble with our biodiversity and our health, because all the risks to both human health and the environment as a whole are still unpredictable.
i do not agree with the eu-wide ban on the marketing of these crops, because there is no scientific evidence of any adverse effects on human health, animal health or the environment.
i voted against this resolution calling for a withdrawal of this decision because it exceeds the com’s implementing powers and does not sufficiently fulfil the objective of health and environment protection.
if our industry is to remain competitive, we need to improve the environment, make better use of the financial instruments at our disposal.
the problem, of course, that we are facing is whether european industries have the means to fit in the competitive environment: i mean accessibility of smes to funding, the unfair competition elsewhere.
pluralism, a free and open political environment are yet concepts foreign to this beautiful country.
the importance of the political pillar of the fourth railway package, which should ensure a fair competitive environment for carriers and suppliers in general, should also be stressed.
in this resolution we are asking that the eu re-industrialisation strategy should be based on sustainability and energy and resource efficiency and be organised by sector, incorporating strong, vertical industrial production measures within the eu.
mr president, i would like to thank my colleague mr pieper for his excellent cooperation on the revision, or the report on the revision of the energy efficiency directive.
the current directive is a good basis for achieving our energy and climate goals, including those ambitious commitments from paris.
the result of the current situation is that we are falling behind the targets set and, if nothing changes, we will not be able to achieve 20% energy efficiency by 2020. i think that the members in the itre committee have made it clear that a more effective framework is needed.
firstly, it is a question of a binding 40% energy efficiency target.
secondly, i would like to mention the issue of energy poverty, which was virtually omitted from the original proposal.
i am glad that the report now gives a lot of attention to energy poverty.
the parliament is currently discussing the revision of the emissions trading system (ets), which is interlinked with energy efficiency and other legislation and where there is currently significant overlap.
i have spoken about this and i think commissioner cañete has also mentioned it, investments under the european investment fund must be part of our fight against climate change.
and it is this 40% binding target that should help to increase the use of renewable resources.
where renewables are concerned, i think i would also refer to the energy market design.
on subsidies, i am not a great fan of subsidies as such and i think that where subsidies for energy are concerned that applies twice over.
i think that some of our colleagues have already mentioned this, but if i look at the implementation of efsi today, the one thing that i am really missing is meeting the goal of financing especially innovative projects, and that of course applies to energy as well.
the energy efficiency directive is built on an interesting theory.
on the one hand, it assumes that, regardless of the costs involved and the local climate, it is worthwhile for everyone across the eu to implement the maximum possible energy efficiency measures in all circumstances.
however, at some points there are very few realistic claims for a near future of virtually zero energy demand for all buildings.
a very weak point in the text is the assumption that co2 emissions can be eliminated even for a substantial part of industrial production.
despite these reservations, the report contains a number of interesting suggestions which can make a significant contribution to energy savings.
in 2014, the eu spent €358 billion on energy imports.
we also know that high energy prices in the eu create energy price differences between member states and our main competitors in many parts of the world, which is a significant competitive disadvantage.
there is no doubt that improving energy efficiency and energy saving are important factors for protecting the environment and the climate, enhancing economic competitiveness, creating jobs and ensuring the security of energy supply.
yet little has changed since 2011, when i was the shadow rapporteur for the energy efficiency directive.
for example, i have personally advocated the provision in article 7 that member states may request that a certain part of energy efficiency measures be implemented as a priority in households affected by energy poverty or in the area of social housing.
the transport sector contributes significantly to high energy and fuel consumption.
in fact, it is the only sector in the european union where greenhouse gas emissions have increased since 1990. however, the measures taken must be sustainable in the long term and should not create other undesirable effects for example, the negative impact of the promotion of biofuels on food production is notorious.
much more attention needs to be paid to overall coordination and planning of logistics and their actual sustainability.
i therefore supported this report, which calls for a more comprehensive approach to improving the energy efficiency of the entire transport system.
‒ cross-border tax fraud and tax evasion are harmful for our economy, as well as for our financial credibility and long-term sustainability.
the best thing we can do for business is to loosen bureaucracy, reduce taxes and improve the business environment.
‒ bluefin tuna is one of the top predators in the mediterranean sea, a crucial species for its ecosystem, and has a very high economic value, both in the european and japanese market.
this is why i voted in favour of transposing this plan into eu law, as i hope that it will contribute to ensuring the exploitation of living aquatic resources under sustainable economic, environmental and social conditions.
i particularly agree with the decision to ensure equitable distribution between the various fleets and support small scale and artisanal fisheries, which usually practice sustainable fishing practices and ensure the livelihood of many local communities.
the plan should help to ensure a balanced and sustainable fishing of these species and the stability of opportunities and thus the livelihoods of fishermen.
an important part of the proposal is to guarantee the use of current scientific knowledge concerning both the stocks of the species concerned, the interactions between them and other aspects of sustainable fishing.
i believe that this baltic sea plan is a big step in the right direction towards reforming the common fisheries policy and sustainable fishing and i was therefore pleased to vote in favour of the proposal.
the plan aims to ensure sustainable fishing for cod, herring and sprat in the baltic sea.
while it has only succeeded in enforcing the partial limitations on flexibility proposed by the member states in the trialogue, i welcome the fact that it has also succeeded in enforcing stronger safeguards with regard to sustainable fishing.
‒ cod, herring and sprat represent 94% of catches in the baltic sea and are important components of the very sensitive baltic ecosystem.
the plan will thus provide for a balanced, sustainable exploitation of cod, herring and sprat stocks promote the stability of fishing opportunities and thereby guarantee the livelihoods of fishers.
it did not call for the launch of an independent investigation into how companies, especially european ones, comply with social and environmental standards in the natural resources sector and what links these companies may have to the financing of armed groups, nor did it call for the launch of an international investigation to shed light on the alleged links between structural change programmes, financial subsidies from international financial institutions and crimes committed in the country.
i reject the call that education ministers must work with the european commission to ensure equal access to high quality education, in particular by seeking to involve the most disadvantaged and people from different backgrounds, including newly arrived migrants, in this process and to integrate them into a positive learning environment.
‒ while the eu is well on track to meet its 2020 renewable energy targets, it is clear that many member states need to strengthen their policies and instruments to ensure that the targets are met.
it stresses the need for european legislation on energy market rules, stable and efficient renewable energy support regimes for long-term investments, which are also adapted to national needs and circumstances.
environmental care is truly a global problem.
renewable resources are a rewarding topic of philosophical discussion.
the radical demands for 100% coverage of energy needs in the next few years are technically justified by philosophical considerations and the real technician is amazed at how simple everything is.
if we take seriously the objective of ensuring strict environmental protection on the one hand and 100% renewable energy on the other, we are faced with a contradiction which is difficult to resolve.
so we're left with biomass and geothermal energy.
when comparing the possibilities of individual renewable sources, we find that on the one hand there are a large number of administrative obstacles (in particular for the connection of small photovoltaic and the installation of small hydropower plants) and on the other hand there are legitimate concerns of the operators of large electricity networks about ensuring the stability of the whole system.
on 23 june 2016, we voted on the progress report on renewable energy at the european parliament's extraordinary plenary session in brussels.
this was a report by the committee on industry, research and energy.
but this is also a long-standing concern of my committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
although the documentary ended up with some good things, like mentioning the issue of energy poverty or pushing for new generations of biofuels at the expense of the old and flawed, i could not support it in good conscience.
in my view, the report is unbalanced, for example, by its strong endorsement of the use of biomass, which we all know today is totally unsustainable in terms of emissions and its negative impact on food self-sufficiency.
the whole text says that the only right source for the future of energy is renewable energy, which is unacceptable.
the report omits any mention of nuclear energy, which it no longer envisages in the future.
i am against the european commission interfering in the energy policies of the member states.
i also disagree with environmental activism that leads to energy prices and subsidies for inefficient resources.
i'm against a more ambitious climate and energy package by 2030.
in writing.
i supported the progress report on renewable energy because i consider political support for the transformation of the energy grid towards renewable energy to be absolutely crucial.
the reason is not just to combat climate change, but also to promote energy security and the development of new economic sectors.
i also appreciate the report's critical approach to some aspects of promoting renewable sources, such as promoting biofuels in transport.
the report assesses the progress the eu has made towards its target of 20% renewables in the eu energy mix by 2020. the report also looks at the outlook beyond 2020. as in the energy efficiency report, i am not satisfied with the low ambition of the targets originally proposed by the commission the commission has abolished the binding targets at national level and has only set a europe-wide target of 27% by 2030, which is really low.
the social democrats have also long held the view that the european-wide target for 2030 should be at least 45% renewable energy, and this requirement has also been successfully implemented in the report.
i finally voted in favour of the resolution on the progress report on renewable energy.
the commission report notes that the target of at least 20% of energy from renewable sources by 2020 is likely to be met, which is welcomed by the european parliament.
the resolution addresses some of the problems that the introduction of renewable sources has brought and calls for effective solutions.
for example, it points out that some member states have neglected their transmission networks and these are now unable to accommodate the surges of energy from renewable sources.
i also think it is important to mention the impact of renewable energy support on agriculture.
the european policies on renewable energy and sustainability are very important, especially for our future development.
the rapporteur made a number of good points and, even though i do not agree on all the points in the report, i believe it is important to recognise the role of renewables in the eu’s energy market and to support their further integration into the market.
i believe that our primary responsibility is to fight climate change, which is a historic duty that we must take on.
at the same time, we need to reduce our dependence on energy resources from the rest of the world if we are to not only be at the forefront of developing strategic technologies for the energy transition, but also to support our manufacturing model and create quality jobs.
i believe that the transition to a sustainable energy production model is a societal priority that cannot be addressed from a market perspective alone.
it must be understood that regulation and democratic participation are necessary to avoid serious social and environmental side effects.
‒ although the energy efficiency directive has started positive developments in the member states, the lack of implementation is undermining its potential.
member states were invited to promote smart metering and transparent billing as a way of encouraging more responsible consumer behaviour with regard to consumption and investment in energy efficiency.
on 23 june, at the european parliament's extraordinary plenary session in brussels, we voted on the itre report on the implementation of the energy efficiency directive.
although the main committee responsible for this report was the itre committee, the envi committee, of which i am a member, also issued its report on the subject of the proposed energy efficiency directive.
from the very beginning, we in the envi committee have been faced with great pressure to set binding, new and very ambitious targets for the new energy efficiency era.
personally, i agree that energy efficiency is itself an energy source, but given what we are currently learning from the whole emissions cheating scandal in the automotive industry dieselgate , i strongly insist that any further determination of emission ceilings or energy targets should always be based on real and solid data, predictions and, above all, be practicable and achievable by the member states.
‒ i supported the report which highlights the importance of energy efficiency for the eu's sustainable economic development and calls for the adoption of an ambitious binding energy efficiency target of 40% by 2030. i am convinced that this set target represents cost-effective energy efficiency that will benefit both companies and consumers.
the report also rightly points out that seven member states have not introduced energy audits.
the current energy efficiency directive is a good basis for achieving europe's climate and energy goals, including the ambitious cop 21 commitments.
as a result, we are lagging behind our targets and, if nothing changes, we will not achieve a 20% increase in energy efficiency by 2020. the report calls for a binding 40% energy efficiency target, because if we do not meet this target, we will be closing the way to greater savings, to fostering innovation and to strengthening our dependence on imports.
the report also pays great attention to the fight against energy poverty.
lastly, it draws the commission's attention to the need to address competing legislation, in particular legislation on energy efficiency, the promotion of renewable sources and the emissions trading system.
i did not support the resolution on the report on the implementation of the energy efficiency directive.
the resolution responds to a commission report assessing the progress of member states in implementing measures to achieve the energy efficiency target by 2020. the european union has set a non-binding target of 20% energy savings, and the energy efficiency directive contains the instruments to achieve this target.
the resolution welcomes the flexibility of the directive member states can choose the best energy efficiency tool for them.
however, the commission itself and the ep (ep in resolution) regret that this target will not be met by 2020. the resolution also points out that the instruments for achieving individual energy and climate targets by 2020 are often competing with each other and are therefore ineffective.
but the main problem with the resolution is that the left-wing factions have pushed the mention of the 2030 climate goals into it.
in october 2014, member states agreed on a non-binding target of 27% energy efficiency improvements by 2030 (with a possible increase to 30%).
‒ the main objective of this implementation report is to assess implementation of the energy efficiency directive (2012/27/eu).
the issue of energy efficiency is also closely related to development in the field of renewables.
while the energy efficiency directive entered into force relatively recently, some conclusions can be drawn.
the report further highlights the need to focus on improvements in the building sector, which accounts for 40% of total energy consumption and 36% of co2 emissions in the eu, the need to protect vulnerable consumers, improve conditions and provide technical support to those who wish to become prosumers.
the rapporteur has pointed out that energy efficiency should be treated as an energy resource, thus decreasing eu dependency on energy imports from third countries, especially gas imports.
‒ i did not support the report because i have long disagreed with the setting of binding energy efficiency targets.
i think that developing countries need social, labour and environmental standards that correspond in the first place with their level of economic and social development, and any effort to bring binding requirements, to impose binding requirements, which unfortunately is an attitude becoming more and more popular in this chamber, means that it will be harmful to them.
a sustainable economic policy is a precondition for economic growth, and jobs and growth are our key priorities.
i voted to reduce emissions from off-road vehicles such as construction machinery, locomotives and small inland vessels, which are major contributors to air pollution.
we have to realize that non-road machines are responsible for up to 15% of all nitrogen emissions into the atmosphere, which is not a small amount.
i believe that an agreement has been reached which balances well the need to protect the environment and the health of europeans and the competitiveness of european companies.
european legislation has always been more focused on emissions from transport and cars in general.
personally, i'm not a big fan of the fact that when it comes to emissions, for example, agriculture, unlike other sectors, is getting a lot of substantial exemptions from the caps all the time.
the proposed regulation is a reasonable compromise between protecting the environment and safeguarding the competitiveness of the sectors concerned.
the new legislation will not directly affect the users of these machines, and gardeners will of course not have to carry their lawn mowers to any emissions checks.
the justification for its adoption is both the unification of the hitherto fragmented national regulations, which will improve the functioning of the common market, and the improvement of air quality, since analyses show that off-road machinery is responsible for up to 15% of all nitrogen emissions into the atmosphere and 5% of particulate matter emissions.
the waste from these machines accounts for around 15% of total nox emissions and 5% of particulate matter emissions, and is estimated to increase to 19% by 2020, so it was necessary to address this issue.
‒ i voted in favour of limiting emissions for non-road mobile machinery, such as small equipment, construction machinery, locomotives and inland waterway vessels, which contribute significantly to air pollution.
in addition to protecting human health and the environment better, it will ensure the proper functioning of the internal market for engines in non-road mobile machinery by improving the general conditions for enforcement, in particular through stronger rules on market surveillance.
‒ trade is clearly an important eu tool for ensuring cooperation with third countries and promoting democratic values in them, whether on environmental issues, human rights or corporate responsibility.
i was very happy to support the report on the implementation of parliament's 2010 recommendations on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate social responsibility.
i supported the report which rightly emphasises the importance of trade and foreign investment as important tools for achieving economic growth, sustainable development and the protection of human rights.
i am convinced that well-designed trade and direct investment regimes increase prosperity in poorer countries and that increased prosperity is a prerequisite for better protection of human and social rights and workers' rights and better protection of the environment.
that is why i consider it very important that in the conclusion of trade agreements, a strong emphasis is placed on social and environmental standards, human rights and also corporate social responsibility.
while foreign investment and trade generally lead to economic growth and increased prosperity, this does not mean that the same thing happens to improvements in human rights protection and the overall environment.
as a social democrat, i consider this report to be very important, as some of the basic principles of the functioning of european society are often forgotten nowadays, namely human rights, corporate social responsibility and, last but not least, social and environmental standards.
compliance with basic social, labour and environmental standards should therefore be guaranteed in all trade agreements concluded by the european union.
such actions can contribute to achieving sustainable development or to combating forced and child labour, which is why i was happy to support this report.
‒ trade is an important tool for the european union to promote democratic values in third countries, such as environmental and social standards, human rights and corporate responsibility.
it is intended to contribute to social, economic, political prosperity and stability, to sustainable economic development, to social progress, to cultural diversity and to the creation of quality jobs.
they do not address all these issues and have a profound and long-term impact on the national and regional development of trading partners, on their ability to develop their own production capacities in order to guarantee long-term sustainable economic performance contributing to economic growth and the prosperity of citizens.
this includes the current negative impacts on macroeconomic and microeconomic relationships and conditions that very often cause disruption of smes, job losses, the relocation of entire sectors to third countries, environmental and social dumping, the disappearance of family farms and medium-sized enterprises, the limitation of access to basic public services, the limitation of cultural diversity, as well as the exacerbation of negative trends such as climate change and persistent poverty, both in developing and in developed countries.
on the contrary, it is necessary to go a step further and define trade and investment agreements in such a way as to promote sustainable development and not to allow a decline in labour and social standards, including environmental sustainability.
in it, the european parliament recalls the role of the european union in the world and stresses that trading in a sustainable and responsible way is the most powerful tool for promoting european interests and values abroad.
in this resolution, for example, the european parliament stresses the need for greater transparency in negotiations or for a comprehensive analysis of the impact of the european union's trade initiatives and asks the european commission to provide data on the impact of trade agreements already concluded, in particular on small and medium-sized enterprises, the environment, etc.
in my view, given the rapidly changing global business environment, the trade strategy should be regularly updated and the commission should report in detail on its implementation on an annual basis, in order to allow european citizens to have a look.
i appreciate the wisdom of the slovak presidency in that you are going to address those issues, especially in the area of health and the environment, which could very soon cause a much worse crisis than we are seeing today.
azerbaijan is an important energy partner of the eu, but civil society and organisations continue to face many difficulties.
in the meantime, the visa facilitation and readmission agreements entered into force on 1 september 2014. azerbaijan is also an important energy partner of the eu, but the importance of the eu-azerbaijan relationship is not limited to energy security.
azerbaijan is a member of the eastern partnership and an important energy partner for europe, but this does not guarantee it any special and more favourable conditions.
azerbaijan is also an important energy partner for the eu, a partnership which this protocol will further cement.
i supported the resulting network and information security directive, which aims at a secure and trusted digital environment across the eu.
‒ while the digitisation of our common economy is bringing unequalled new opportunities, it is essential that we protect its critical infrastructure such as energy, transport, banks, financial markets and health from security incidents and cybercrime.
i voted in favour of the proposal on energy efficiency labelling following the european commission's decision to update the legislation in this area.
the original a to c scale, indicating the energy efficiency of appliances mainly white goods (refrigerators, freezers, etc.
given the evidence that this labelling is already confusing consumers and discouraging them from buying the most energy-efficient products, i was in favour of modifying the scale to now label products from a to g. the aim of this labelling is to encourage consumers to purchase energy-efficient products, which are therefore less harmful to the environment.
accurate, clear and comparable energy consumption information anywhere in the eu is therefore crucial.
energy labels are a very interesting marketing ploy these days, but unfortunately, they're losing their effectiveness.
as the energy consumption of individual appliances is reduced, the original scale becomes less clear and the simplicity of the whole marking is lost.
however, the question is whether extremely energy-efficient electrical equipment will actually have a stable low electricity consumption and will be fully functional, even mechanically, after a few years.
on 6 july 2016, we voted in plenary on the draft regulation establishing a framework for energy labelling.
in my view, energy labelling of products makes a major contribution to overall energy savings, is one of the essential tools of secondary environmental protection and is an important part of achieving the european energy efficiency target.
i am against extending the obligation for businesses to label products with energy labels.
i supported changes to energy labelling to make it easier for european consumers to find their way when buying electrical appliances.
the changes approved will require european manufacturers to return to a scale where the letter a will indicate the most energy-efficient appliances and the letter g, the least.
‒ in july 2015, the commission proposed a new regulation on energy labelling to replace directive 2010/30/eu.
the proposal restores the original a to g scale for classifying the energy efficiency of products and establishes a mechanism for rescaling.
by replacing a directive with a regulation, the commission wishes to simplify the regulatory environment and ensure market rules are applied more consistently across the eu.
the commission will also be able to provide information on the implementation of the eu's action plan on the environment, which is to be adopted by the european parliament and the council in june.
i am also pleased that we in the socialist and democratic group have been able to incorporate important appeals to combat climate change and protect biodiversity into the report.
despite the paris agreement to limit global warming to 1.5°c and the mid-term review of the european biodiversity strategy showing that europe is significantly lagging behind in meeting all its targets, this was by no means an easy task.
the importance of financial instruments is given by their high leverage effect, which can have a positive impact on innovation, for example through energy efficiency, and can contribute to a better uptake rate by providing the necessary co-financing, in particular in member states and regions with low national co-financing capacity.
i could not support the european parliament resolution on the strategic priorities for the commission work programme for 2017 because i have no confidence in the commission in this composition and i ask for its resignation for many reasons: 1.it negotiates trade agreements behind the backs of citizens, which jeopardise many of the gains of european integration, particularly in the areas of the environment, consumer protection and social rights.
the commission also lacks a focus on social and environmental issues, as well as working conditions and addressing the ever-growing unemployment, especially among young people.
concrete measures must now follow to create a fair competitive environment and more transparent relations between farmers, producers and food chains.
it is with deep regret that despite international protest, japan continues with such a practice that endangers the biodiversity and marine ecosystem.
these activities undermine biodiversity and marine ecosystems, breach the iwc standards and international law, and are based on the unfounded stipulation that genuine scientific research requires the large-scale and regular killing of whales.
these should be investments in social and environmental, health or education sectors.
in particular, these would be projects in the areas of social, environmental, economic and health and education infrastructure.
we have set ourselves very strict and drastic environmental and other measures for the steel industry and other industries.
in china, companies in these fields have very different conditions, environmental standards, public subsidies and government support.
the report covers a number of important issues, such as the emphasis on the protection of human rights, the need for a peaceful solution in the middle east, the fight against terrorism, cyber security, the fight against illegal migration and climate change.
‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for the 71st session of the united nations general assembly, which defines a list of common eu priorities on human rights, climate change, development and the active promotion of the rule of law and international humanitarian law for the next assembly of the un.
i don't agree with the call to limit the sale of energy drinks to young people.
energy drinks are not alcohol, and it is up to parents to monitor the suitability of energy drinks for children.
‒ we have today discussed a motion for a resolution calling attention to the harmfulness of caffeine and sugar in energy drinks and, in particular, asking the commission to come forward with a proposal on how to better raise awareness of the health risks associated with their consumption, especially for children and adolescents.
according to the study, a 250ml can of energy drink can contain up to 27g of sugar and 80mg of caffeine, with the largest group of consumers shown to be adolescents, with approximately 25% of them drinking three or more cans of these drinks at once.
in addition, recommending the consumption of caffeine in some cases is likely to favour the consumption of energy drinks and consequently encourage the excessive daily intake of sugar and caffeine.
if we look today at the market, whether it is gas or whether it is any other source of energy, it is not economically viable to invest.
mr president, energy security, an energy union – these were big topics that we were discussing here in parliament around a year ago.
but strategically speaking, the energy sector remains one of the key issues for the future of the european union.
for the future of our economy – because cheaper, clean and reliable energy resources are a precondition for the good development of our economies.
the energy mix and most of the issues concerning energy are considered to be the responsibility of the member states, but efficient solutions, the efficient use of resources, the design of grids, and consumption and production do not respect the borders of states.
that is why i call on the member states to look at the issues that will allow us to efficiently use our resources and create the conditions that will lead to affordable energy supplies.
especially, we should allow a better use of price signals to ensure capacity is available; we should strengthen the role of esra in order to promote regional development; and obviously we should support r&d because for the better use of renewable energies in particular we need to work on the storage of energy.
mr president, i welcome today's debate on energy in the eu, and in particular on the subject of heating and cooling.
in the eu, as in the czech republic, a large proportion of buildings suffer from energy waste due to their ageing and outdated heating technologies.
we waste heat, and yet almost 11% of eu citizens suffer from energy poverty.
we therefore need such measures and additional investment in research into modern energy-saving technologies that will reduce the total cost of heating households and increase energy efficiency at all the basic stages of energy use.
and it will promote stable family relationships, for it is not just material conditions but also the environment of security, safety, trust, and good relationships that a family provides and should provide.
there should have been emissions measurements for the operation of the car and if it hadn't been for the us detection, we wouldn't have had this either.
mr president, commissioner, the work being done by the committee of inquiry into emissions measurements is really giving a comprehensive picture of the technical systems of combustion engines, especially diesel engines.
it's really instructive to me personally how the strong political pressure to reduce co2 emissions, which is at the edge of technical possibilities, leads to huge problems.
‒ i supported this resolution because ris3 will allow our regions to remain competitive, create more quality jobs and achieve sustainable growth by helping them develop in the areas of their strength.
it is a useless resolution full of meaningless cries, such as that smart specialisation strategies should be an effective tool to tackle social, environmental, climate and energy challenges.
‒ in an increasingly competitive global environment, it is crucial that the eu keeps improving its capacity to innovate.
besides transportation, we will see a positive impact in healthcare, research and innovation, and even environment.
it is a useless resolution full of meaningless cries, such as that smart specialisation strategies should be an effective tool to tackle social, environmental, climate and energy challenges.
it aims to improve connectivity and accessibility, enhance knowledge transfer and innovation, and address environmental concerns.
these cuts will negatively impact areas like the single market, the digital market, mobility, energy, research, education, health, the environment and culture.
i believe that the final report of the committee of inquiry will bring new insights which will be useful not only for the evaluation of this case around emissions in the automotive industry but also for the judicial authorities.
in particular, for the various 'prices for supply', we see the need to define which charges will be included in the price of energy under the heading of transport, or network use, and which under the heading of the amount of energy consumed.
gas and electricity price statistics are part of the european energy statistics system managed by eurostat.
i personally support the idea of collecting data on the prices of natural gas and electricity paid by consumers in different countries, as this will increase transparency and may help protect households and final consumers from the questionable pricing practices of some energy and gas suppliers.
however, the report itself is written in the spirit of the eu moving towards a complete, common internal energy market, which i cannot agree with at all.
i have long held the view that the issue of energy supply and production is a matter for the sovereign powers of the national states alone and should not be transferred to the pan-european level.
the debate on the document itself was not helped by the fact that some of my colleagues tried to insert changes in the text in favour of nuclear energy.
it is also necessary to define 'charges' in order to correct the current unsatisfactory situation where it is possible to shift charges from the grid to energy and vice versa.
‒ i supported this report on proposal for a regulation on european statistics on natural gas and electricity prices, i believe that harmonised methodology for data collection in the field of energy will help to recognize differences and disparities between the member states.
clear and objective statistics will then be an important basis for setting up an eu-wide policies and appropriate measures in the field of energy.
‒ i am in favour of measures that will lead to a better functioning and competitive energy market, and thus lower and more predictable energy prices for our large and small consumers.
as it will also improve our cross-border cooperation on energy policy, it will help secure our energy supply and decrease our dependence on suppliers from outside the eu.
as this is an important step to achieve our priorities on energy and climate issues, i gladly voted in support of this resolution.
the langen report is an interesting compromise between the demands of those who want to phase out all non-renewable energy production and those who are aware of the potential pitfalls of doing so.
among renewable sources, hydropower is the key in terms of installed capacity, followed by wind power and photovoltaic power.
so geothermal energy is the only stable source of energy in the long term.
given this instability (sun, wind, water determine the unreliability of these sources), it is necessary to provide either backup sources or stabilising capacities that can be flexibly replenished in the event of a lack of energy in the grid.
the report acknowledges the emergence of a new class of energy consumers who are also energy producers, and notes the disconnectedness of the european electricity market both within and outside the eu.
energy must not only be produced but also transmitted reliably.
on 13 september 2016, we voted on the report 'towards a new energy market organisation' at the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg.
the electricity market is constantly changing and for electricity produced from renewable sources, the current overall share of electricity produced is expected to increase from 25% to 50% by 2030. the commission initiative discussed in the report aims to improve the functioning of the internal electricity market so that electricity can be moved to where and when it is needed most, while fully integrating the growing share of energy from renewable sources.
those of you who have been following me for a while now know that for a number of reasons, i'm not a big fan of renewable energy.
that is why i also supported the amendments calling for the phasing out of subsidies for renewable energy.
i am also not in favour of further strengthening the powers of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators, as i believe that this area is purely and solely a matter for national competence.
the report 'supports the increasing share of renewable energy in the eu', which i do not support.
i also disagree with the call for 'a regulatory framework that would lead end-users to self-generate and store energy'.
‒ today we voted on a report on the new energy market organisation.
strengthening the role of acer and other european agencies in the field of energy is also not an idea i could support.
a number of amendments proposed by our group, such as a greater focus on renewable energy sources, were not adopted.
‒ i supported the report, which i consider balanced, since it emphasises, among other things, the right of member states to determine the conditions for the use and composition of their own energy resources.
i agree with the call to strengthen acer's role and appreciate that the report places a strong emphasis on the promotion of digital technologies in the context of the development of an ambitious energy sector digitisation strategy, including the deployment of smart grids and smart metering, the development of mobile applications, internet platforms and data nodes.
i supported this own-initiative report, which relates to the forthcoming legislation on the energy market functioning scheme, which will be published in december.
in europe today, the way energy is produced and supplied is changing and the market environment needs to adapt to this.
the biggest challenge for the administration will be to define a mechanism whereby national governments will compensate companies for guaranteeing a certain capacity of the energy market in cases of a reduction in energy supply, e.g.
in the case of a black out, while at the same time minimising the disturbance of the market environment and/or protecting final consumers from an inadequate increase in the price of electricity.
‒ this own initiative report endorsed by the european parliament is the first reaction to the commission’s communication from july 2015. as a shadow rapporteur i supported the report on the new energy market design as proposed by the rapporteur w. langen as a result of negotiations between the groups.
i consider this text to be well-balanced, with market-based approach, covering all important issues related to the eu’s energy market including reform of ets or role of acer.
‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe that new sustainable energy strategies, such as self-generation and sustainable use of organic waste, could help us to decrease our dependency on high-carbon infrastructure and increase, on the other hand, energy efficiency in rural buildings.
i would be also in favour of a new attractive financing system to promote new technologies for heating households using renewable energy sources as well as of modernisation of old and inefficient heating systems and of deep renovation of buildings with improved thermal insulation.
- i voted in favour of this new strategy because cooling and heating represent the largest part of the demand for energy services in the eu and increasing efficiency in their use is essential to reduce the costs associated with them, while achieving co2 reductions and improving the security of energy supply.
this strategy is therefore not only beneficial for these owners, but also for their tenants and, last but not least, for the environment.
heating and cooling use half of the eu's total energy generated, and much of it is wasted.
of the new strategy presented by the commission, the areas on which the eu intends to focus in the coming years are, for me personally, the most important and key: facilitating the renovation and reconstruction of buildings; the integration of electrical systems with heating and cooling systems into a single functional unit and the increased use of waste heat and cold produced by industry.
however, what i consider to be the most positive aspect of this report is that the rapporteur also understood the local nature and potential of heating and cooling and in the report he directly stated that more decentralised and flexible energy systems with energy and heat sources located closer to each other and to the place of consumption can facilitate and make overall energy production more efficient.
the report also calls for the introduction of new subsidies to support renewable energy sources, which i do not agree with.
this leads to energy waste, while many eu citizens are facing energy poverty.
in the report, we call on the commission to present a strategy to combat energy waste.
i supported the report on a heating and cooling strategy that will enable member states to achieve the eu's climate and energy policy goals through sustainable and cost-effective solutions.
efficiently achievable energy savings are a key way to achieve climate goals.
given the wide diversity of heating and cooling sectors in the member states, due to their different energy mix, climatic conditions, energy efficiency levels of buildings and industrial intensity, flexibility should be ensured in selecting appropriate solutions according to the strategy.
the main focus should be on the security of energy supply problems in the eu related to the security of heat supply.
in this respect, the commission should therefore examine ways to further promote the diversification of heating sources and to accelerate the wider use of renewable heat technologies.
‒ energy efficiency is a topic i have been working on for a long time, and i have tabled a number of my amendments to this report and supported the final text in plenary.
almost 50% of the eu's final energy demand is used for heating and cooling, 80% of which is used in buildings.
moreover, considering that every additional 1% increase in energy savings reduces gas imports by 2,6%, it is natural that this should encourage member states to develop long-term heating and cooling strategies based on an integrated approach, harmonised mapping and evaluation in accordance with article 14 of the energy efficiency directive.
it is important to remember that while a large proportion of current buildings in europe suffer from energy waste due to poor insulation and outdated and inefficient heating systems, energy poverty affects almost 11% of the eu population.
the best solution to this problem, i see, is to invest in thermal renovation buildings, which is the most efficient way to use energy and reduce co2 emissions.
this strategy does not include any legislative measures, it is however important to focus on this area as the heating and cooling in buildings and industry accounts for more than 50% of total energy consumption in the eu.
i however don´t agree that there should be a role for the european commission to play in the field of training and certification of practitioners in the field of energy efficiency, therefore i abstained on article 98 and i also do not support the vision that the eu and european commission should be made responsible for measures related to the energy poverty in certain member states.
i believe that this can be achieved through financial support provided by european structural and investment funds, by providing smes with microcredits, by simplifying mechanism that will help the business environment and speeding up the process of setting up of new businesses and by decreasing excessive bureaucracy that prevents smes from applying for the available funds.
i would personally like to see this legislation achieve another equally important objective, namely reducing production costs and the associated productivity gains, which would prevent environmental damage and lead to a transition to a low-carbon economy.
after several months of negotiations, it was agreed that the region should be given greater prosperity and cohesion, a more locally-oriented approach to the development of the alpine regions should be developed, sustainable and competitive tourism should be promoted by improving the accessibility of offers and services, and a special chapter should be devoted to the protection of the exceptional alpine lake system.
it is therefore the union's duty to support regions which are disadvantaged by natural conditions, particularly vulnerable to climate change or seasonal influences, and thus to ensure their sustainable and integrated development.
all of them are threatened by global warming and the associated melting of glaciers, which has negative impacts on the sustainability of alpine ecosystems and the economic development of the region.
i therefore welcome and voted for the european parliament's report which takes account of the need to address the causes of climate change through various measures in the fields of energy, transport and investment in modern technologies.
the renewable energy sources that the alps are rich in have great potential in this respect.
it will be in addition to various cooperation agreements, focusing on the issues of transportation shortage, logistical manufacturing concerns, and climate change.
these issues include improving competitiveness, prosperity and cohesion, increasing accessibility and transportation links, and ensuring cultural and environmental sustainability.
however, the economically and environmentally inconsistent development of the region has led to depopulation, especially of young people, and left it extremely vulnerable to the effects of climate change.
it will do so by increasing its competitiveness, prosperity and cohesion, by improving its accessibility and transport links, and by protecting the alpine heritage and promoting sustainable use of natural and cultural resources.
by focusing the monetary support on social and democratic issues like education, good governance, the environment and employment, we fight the root causes of destabilisation and forced displacement.
this alibistic label hides the real nature of the problems facing the eu's working environment.
i consider it a waste of taxpayers' money.
this agreement will bring about sustainable development and regional integration in this region whilst allowing the eu to obtain wider access to the southern african customs union.
‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the economic partnership agreements (epas), which are trade partnerships between the southern african development community (sadc) and the eu aimed at contributing to the integration of sadc group into the world economy and to its sustainable development.
i voted in favour of this resolution because it is important to take account of the risky nature of the working environment in fisheries compared to other sectors.
‒ social dumping is a phenomenon closely linked to an increasingly competitive environment.
‒ as long as there are huge wage differences between member states in the european union, we will continue to face a competitive environment that builds on these differences.
for me, the way to do this is to have a solid regulatory environment in which we have high-quality universal services with a certain degree of flexibility, independent – and i stress independent – national authorities that monitor the situation on the market, a fair environment between the companies that have been on the market for a long time and the newcomers, between the universal services companies and the smes, and also a solid awareness of cross-border opportunities.
madam president, commissioners, smes are something that is close to my heart, because i came from this business environment and i still try to get feedback directly from people on the ground for my initiatives as an mep.
let's help create a stable and welcoming legislative environment so that further eu regulations and new obligations do not become a nightmare for businesses, but instead an opportunity for them to develop further.
they should also be developed with parliament as an equivalent institution to help ensure more, better and sustainable jobs.
this summit will also be a unique opportunity for the eu to speak with one voice on the implementation of a european wildlife action plan, and to reaffirm its wider commitment to promoting the un 2030 agenda for sustainable development.
this can be achieved by combining upfront support to help kick-start projects with long-term strategies to improve the investment environment for smes.
governments have recently committed themselves to the sustainable development goals and the paris agreement.
if the european union wants to remain a credible global partner and a global force in combating climate change, we have to take concrete actions, cooperate with international partners, and increase the coherence of eu policies to effectively push for ending deforestation and the connected violations of human rights.
the eu action plan needs strong governance reforms, coherence with other environmental policies and additional resources.
‒ i voted in favour of the ratification of the paris agreement on climate change.
i do believe that it is a good step how to face issues related to preserving, protecting and improving the quality of the environment, as well as protecting human health and promoting measures at international level to deal with regional or worldwide environmental problems.
‒ the paris agreement is one of the most historic milestones in the fight against climate change.
i voted in favour of the eu's ratification because meeting the targets set for combating climate pollution and taking a responsible approach to the environment are the foundations for preserving a clean planet for future generations.
the eu's 2030 agenda for sustainable development targets, which include reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 40% compared to 1990 levels and increasing the share of renewable energy to at least 27%, are an ambitious commitment by which the eu demonstrates its commitment to maintaining its position as a global leader in the environment and to leading by example.
‒ the paris agreement is a logical follow-up to the kyoto protocol, since it is essential that at least as many parties to the agreement join the agreement as possible so that their total greenhouse gas emissions account for at least 55% of the global total.
the objective is to achieve at least a 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. the paris agreement commits the parties to evaluate the results and to adapt the tools necessary to achieve the best possible effect every five years, starting in 2023. the long-term objective of the agreement is to keep global temperature rise well below 2°c compared to pre-industrial levels.
environmental protection is becoming a more and more frequent topic for one simple reason.
these policies have failed and have already caused much damage, destroying the soil with rapeseed and solar panels, raising energy and food prices, raising taxes and stunting economic growth.
when countries get rich, they naturally reduce their pollutant emissions and want more forests and parks.
economic growth, natural care for the environment, safe nuclear energy and the development of modern technologies are the best way to limit greenhouse gases.
i supported the endorsement of the paris agreement on climate change, which will allow the eu to become an official signatory to the agreement and, as a result, to enter into force.
it is a responsible, ambitious, balanced agreement, with cost-effective commitments to reduce co2 emissions on a global scale.
the implementation of the commitments will allow the world to avoid dangerous climate change, which in the czech republic, for example, is a particular risk of drought.
the agreement recognises that global greenhouse gas emissions should peak as soon as possible and climate neutrality should be achieved by the second half of this century.
the development of new technologies and their decreasing price create the conditions for even fairly ambitious climate protection objectives to be achieved at a cost that does not threaten, and in many cases can even strengthen, the stability and growth of economies.
the european parliament, in the presence of un secretary-general ban ki-moon and french environment minister ségolène royal, endorsed the paris agreement on climate change, known as cop21.
we must not just talk about it, but invest in clean technologies, renewable energy and energy efficiency, which are topics i deal with as a priority in the european parliament.
this will be a major challenge for the european union as a whole, but especially for the central and eastern european member states, which the eu should be more supportive of in the transition to a low-carbon economy.
‒ i voted to ratify the paris climate agreement because it was a hard-won compromise, starting with the will of the states to reach an agreement.
i supported the legislative resolution by which the european parliament endorses the council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the paris agreement adopted under the united nations framework convention on climate change.
for the eu, the world's third largest emitter and a major global leader in the fight against climate change, this also means that it will not be a mere observer at important negotiations, but will allow it to discuss the details of the implementation of the paris agreement with other parties, in particular other emission giants such as china and the us.
the paris agreement will enter into force on 4 november 2016, before the cop22 climate change conference in marrakech.
‒ protecting the environment is a global challenge for all of humanity and our obligation to future generations at the same time.
that's why i voted for the paris agreement on climate change.
its main objective is to keep global warming below 2°c, but as close to 1.5°c as possible, and thus prevent further dangerous climate change.
the second commitment is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions gradually so as to achieve climate neutrality by the second half of this century.
it should not only deliver environmental successes, but also serve as an opportunity for new technology development and economic growth.
the agreement aims to limit global temperature increases at national level through climate pledges.
the eu’s contribution to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions will account for a 40% reduction from levels in the 1990s.
the eu has played a significant role in combatting climate change and must now work hard to implement internal policies that will bring to light the promises made.
i believe that it is our duty as europeans to ensure not only a clean and safe environment for us here in europe, but equally to set an example by promoting environmental ambitions and conscientiousness to other nations who share with us this one world.
i also supported the support activities mentioned above in line with the further development of a sustainable economy.
i also welcome the call for stronger involvement in political dialogue and for an acp-eu peer monitoring, so that the implementation policies with regard to the sustainable development goals in member states would be monitored.
i voted in favour of the resolution on the future of acp-eu relations after 2020, as the sustainable development of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states can only be ensured by their gradual integration into the global economy.
‒ while i consider the creation of agreements with the african, caribbean and pacific group of states (acp) to be very important, i have decided to abstain from voting on the future of acp-eu relations after 2020. while fully supporting the fact that the 2030 agenda for sustainable development and the sdgs become the focal points of the new agreement and that a strong monitoring mechanism is established to ensure that the agreement contributes to and supports the sdgs, i was disappointed to note that the private sector can play a key role in the development process and contribute to its financing if investments are made with respect for people and traditional ownership or use and the environment, in line with the un guiding principles on business and human rights.
i also believe that all economic partnership agreements should incorporate legally binding provisions on sustainability, in particular with regard to human rights, but also social and environmental standards, as the future contractual framework for relations between the eu and the acp countries.
however, there is a need to update the memorandum of understanding to take into account the 2030 agenda for sustainable development and its objectives.
‒ the cotonou agreement (2000) aims to reduce and eventually eradicate poverty through the promotion of sustainable development and the gradual integration of the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) countries into the world economy.
i voted in favour of the revision of the acp-eu agreement because i believe the partnership must now evolve from the donor-recipient mentality, which has not encouraged the full potential of development in the acp community, to a more mutual political partnership based on sustainable shared cooperation among and between acp members, providing greater independence from the eu.
i fully agree that the new agreement should be based on a focus on sustainable development and political dialogue, which should be actively and systematically used to avoid political crises in the acp region.
i believe that greek debt will be sustainable if the economy grows in nominal terms, interest payments are lower and the budget is in order.
so we shall see what sustainability of the greek economy looks like.
stable, sustainable and predictable macroeconomic conditions are key.
in my own state, i've always been a very strong advocate of local, regional agricultural production, because then it has the least cost, which could hurt transportation, could hurt other emissions within those regions, so regional agriculture needs to be supported.
i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the eu's global objectives and commitments for nutrition and food security in the world, which is in line with the vision of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development, a joint plan agreed by the un states to eliminate extreme poverty and transform the economy towards sustainability by 2030. the resolution stresses the need to prevent systemic problems that cause malnutrition through the involvement of all economic and social actors and other stakeholders.
‒ given that the second sdg and its related sub-goals are aimed at eradicating hunger and malnutrition by 2030, in particular by providing opportunities for smallholders and increasing their productivity, and at achieving sustainable and climate-resilient agricultural and food systems capable of feeding the projected world population (8.5 billion in 2030) while protecting biodiversity, the environment and the interests and well-being of these smallholders, the nature of the debate on next steps to achieve the global goals and to meet the eu's commitments on nutrition and food security worldwide is of fundamental importance, i voted in favour of the report.
i do not agree with the call for member states to invest in sustainable agriculture with safe food.
‒ i believe it is important to ensure universal access to healthier and more sustainable diets for all people without distinction in all parts of the world.
i therefore supported this motion for a resolution which proposes measures to achieve food security, improve nutrition, promote sustainable agriculture and eradicate hunger.
ending hunger and malnutrition by 2030 is the sustainable development goal 2. further, the commission’s nutrition action plan pledged to reduce stunting by 7 million children by 2025. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution calling for accelerated action to fulfil the 2030 agenda and to reach sdg 2 to end hunger and to guarantee the development of social safety nets in order to reduce extreme poverty, as the level of investment in nutrition today remains inadequate.
i believe the resolution, which calls for an additional eu commitment of eur 1 billion addressing nutrition-specific interventions, represents a step in the right direction toward eradicating hunger, malnutrition and food waste.
although the joint resolution was surprisingly well written, especially with regard to the need for reindustrialization and the move away from the blind closure of heavy industry, which means the loss of thousands of jobs due to the fight against climate change, all the amendments that the caterpillar workers wanted to mention did not pass.
i also don't agree with calls for subsidizing the information and energy networks.
a functioning economy or a well-functioning, sustainable social and fiscal system is the main thing that national governments and parliaments should promote and thereby ensure a good quality of life for their citizens.
indeed i deplore the absence of a long-term vision for european industry and this text did not propose a sustainable solution and vision for the future.
i have to agree in part that, of course, the forces of nature are overwhelmingly powerful and that humans are just a small cog or a decidedly smaller cog in the climate change that is unquestionably taking place, but we would be foolish not to actually try to do at least the little we can to affect climate change.
on 6 october 2016, we voted in plenary on a resolution on the implementation of the paris agreement and on the un climate change conference to be held in marrakech, morocco, in 2016. unfortunately, the european parliament delegation is not directly involved in the cop negotiations.
in addition, the text reiterates the role of the ets in combating co2 emissions.
according to the latest oecd report, 90% of co2 emissions are under-rated.
in my view, a better way is to set precise, legally binding limits, enforce them rigorously and combine them, for example, with a carbon tax.
i do not agree with the call for developed countries, especially the eu, to significantly reduce their greenhouse gas emissions below the limit of existing commitments.
‒ i supported the resolution, which among other things stresses the need to make greater efforts to ensure that climate finance is mobilised to meet the usd 100 billion target by 2020. this is a relatively large amount, which is intended to go mainly to emerging economies.
therefore, a focus should be placed on the adoption of concrete eu and international commitments that would help to raise additional funding to finance climate action, such as projects to support technical innovation.
‒ the 22nd united nations conference of the parties (cop 22), which will be held in marrakesh, morocco in november 2016, is of particular importance because it will bring into force the paris climate change agreement adopted last year, a landmark achievement in combating climate change.
while the paris agreement gave clear pathways and a final destination in respect of decisive action on climate change, many of the details regarding how to move forward as one global community in that common direction still need to be resolved.
as i have said for a long time on the issue of endocrine disruptors, with which packaging materials are also closely linked, we need to be very careful about what chemicals manufacturers are putting into our food and into the environment.
the 2014 annual report on the monitoring of the application of union law presented by the commission indicates that the highest number of cases concerning infringements of the treaty were opened repeatedly in the areas of environment, transport and internal market policies and services, including consumer protection.
for example, it is noted that the environment, transport and the internal market and services remained the sectors where the highest number of infringement cases were opened in 2014. on the other hand, it is interesting to observe that the total number of formal infringements of the treaty has been steadily decreasing over the last five years.
‒ the objection proposed by the environment, public health and food safety committee against the commission’s proposal for placing genetically modified maize bt11 seeds on the european market is part of a larger theme of systematically opposing gm authorisations on mainly procedural grounds and is not the right way to force the commission to change the eu-level authorisation regime.
‒ the objection proposed by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety against the commission´s proposal to place genetically modified maize 1507 seeds on the european market is part of a larger theme of systematically opposing gm authorisations on mainly procedural grounds and is not the right way to force the commission to change the eu level authorisation regime.
‒ the objection proposed by the environment, public health and food safety committee against the renewing of authorisation for the use of genetically modified maize mon 810 seeds in the european market is part of a larger theme of systematically opposing gm authorisations on mainly procedural grounds, and is not the right way to force the commission to change the eu-level authorisation regime.
‒ the objection proposed by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety against the renewing of authorisation for the use of genetically modified maize mon 810 products in the european market is part of a larger theme of systematically opposing gm authorisations on mainly procedural grounds and is not the right way to force the commission to change the eu-level authorisation regime.
‒ the objection proposed by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety against the proposal to place on the market genetically modified cotton 281-24-236 x 3006-210-23 x mon 88913 is part of a larger theme of systematically opposing gm authorisations on mainly procedural grounds and is not the right way to force the commission to change the eu level authorisation regime.
i believe that this proposal will lead to a more comprehensible and transparent environment, especially for smes, which form the backbone of the european economy.
i also disagree with the challenge to the eu to define the term 'climate refugee' and automatically give asylum to someone just because it's hot in their country.
‒ migration is a global and highly complex problem with diverse origins, arising for example from adverse economic conditions, but also from a violent and conflict-ridden environment.
‒ migration is a global, multidimensional phenomenon caused by a wide variety of factors, such as economic conditions, social and political conditions, labour conditions, violence, security, and environment.
‒ this report on a very important topic of energy security presents broad set of measures we need to consider in order to keep the eu regions energetically safe and stable.
however, i have abstained at the final vote, as i am missing some parts of the strategy that i find important, such as better use of existing critical energy infrastructure or better links on the north-south basis.
the proposal under discussion is another in a series of eu efforts to create a slow-moving energy union.
i have long been very reluctant to build a single energy union, because i believe that energy, the energy mix and security are matters which are the exclusive responsibility of the individual member states.
moreover, like most energy union documents, it omits the fundamental issues of access to and availability of energy, does not consider energy as a public good of a social nature and does not try to combat so-called energy poverty, which is a fundamental error for a commodity such as gas, the price of which is still a socially sensitive issue in many countries.
in addition, the proposal takes a very benevolent approach to the issue of gas produced by so-called hydraulic fracturing, which destroys both our waters and biodiversity and the environment in general.
biogas as a renewable source must be marketable without subsidies and tax breaks if it is to be competitive, otherwise there is a risk that support for biogas will end, as will support for solar and wind power plants , thus placing a huge burden on consumers and taxpayers.
- i agree with the authors of the report that the availability of liquefied natural gas, including the supporting pipeline infrastructure, could significantly improve the current security of supply situation, not only in terms of physical but also economic conditions, which would also contribute to more competitive energy prices.
‒ natural gas has great potential within the eu energy system and plays an important role in industrial production.
i supported the report on the strategy for liquefied natural gas as it is one of the elements of the proposed energy union.
this is a further step towards a sustainable, secure and competitive energy system.
however, although natural gas is a cleaner alternative to other fuels and a flexible back-up for electricity generation, it should not become a full-fledged substitute for renewable sources.
this is because it is not completely environmentally friendly and there is a continuing need to minimise transient methane emissions released throughout its life cycle.
‒ in february 2016 the commission published a communication on an ‘eu strategy for liquefied natural gas (lng) and gas storage’ as part of its sustainable energy security package.
i consider gas to a be an important part of the eu’s energy mix.
i fully support the use of lng as an alternative source of gas supply, which contributes to the eu's energy security.
unfortunately, the adopted report contains a reference to binding energy and climate targets and other elements indicating a shift away from a balanced report.
harmonization will improve the competitive environment in fisheries and modernise the high standards of eu fisheries policy.
however, i abstained in a separate vote in favour of the full navigability of the labe, as i have serious doubts about the environmental sustainability and economic viability of such a solution.
it not only ignores the work of the european parliament but also prevents the establishment of a fair competitive environment and transparent relationships between food producers, suppliers and distributors in the internal market.
secondly, to step up action on the external front to address the root causes of migration, and here we have eur 750 million to support the partnership framework process – these are the so-called compacts – and eur 250 million to provision the european fund for sustainable development.
if i look at trade, it says that the eu is committed to a robust trade policy, etc., and then the first paragraphs of substance say that uk interests include fully defending and promoting the social environment, etc.
in my view, the budget must be cut back from all unnecessary ballast and unnecessary initiatives which are just a waste of resources, and focus on issues such as migration and reducing social disparities between member states, in particular the convergence of living standards in the western and eastern member states.
i also personally support other research activities in the fields of energy and space (iter, cern, esa budget, galileo, copernicus, etc.).
overall, i consider the vast majority of the eu budget of 160 billion to be a waste.
i also disagree with the proposal for a new spending programme 'european interrail network ticket for the 18th birthday', which i consider to be europopulism and a waste of taxpayers' money.
i also believe that the funds provided to estonia until 2019 will mitigate the impact of redundancies in the chemical industry on other sectors, including the processing, mining and energy sectors.
‒ i voted against this report as key alde points such as a reference to the importance that wages should be in line with productivity, that measures should be taken to improve the business environment to incentivise investment, that a fully integrated eu labour market should be created, or that csrs should become binding, have been rejected in the vote in committee.
volunteering projects can include many activities in the fields of youth work, cultural activities, social care or environmental protection.
by promoting, supporting and developing volunteering and recognising its contribution, we can help to create a more welcoming environment for all of us.
madam president, i would like to pay tribute to all the volunteers who devote their time and energy to this very volunteer service.
‒ the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy is an innovative energy initiative and research project aimed at providing a link between plasma physics and engineering and future commercial fusion-based power plants.
‒ in light of the deteriorating relations between nuclear-armed states such as russia and the us or pakistan and india, given russia’s threats to use nuclear weapons or to deploy them to additional areas in europe, the eu is faced with a very tense and fragile security environment.
in that concerning context, the union must urgently reinforce non-proliferation, disarmament and cooperation on the peaceful use of nuclear energy, which is what this text calls for.
this topic has become even more important recently in the face of the deteriorating security environment in europe.
‒ as of recently, there has been concern expressed about the deterioration of the security environment around the european union and beyond its neighbourhood, which could lead to the re-emergence of nuclear weapons as an active deterrent and possible proliferation among state and non-state actors.
the commission considers that environmental legislation should be simple and understandable and easy to implement.
it has its undeniable costs, and we have to admit that, even in the environmental sphere.
- i have supported a report aimed at ensuring the sustainable exploitation of cod stocks, whose stocks need to be restored and maintained at a level that will provide maximum sustainable yield.
this is crucial from an environmental point of view, as the new regulation abolished the fishing effort regime, or the number of days a fishing vessel can spend at sea.
this is an important measure to conserve fish stocks and i believe it is another step towards the stability of the marine biological environment and the prevention of further climate change.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because it removes unnecessary obstacles for consumers and businesses and stimulates finance for sustainable and green investments.
i am also glad that it encourages retail financial service providers to finance projects associated with innovation and the environment.
as europe continues to lack sustainable and green investment, i am very pleased, as vice-chair of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, that the green paper encourages a much more active approach to seeking and using capital markets for this type of investment.
consumer and businesses’ trust in the financial sector has lagged behind since the financial crisis of 2008. i voted in favour of the proposed paper, as i believe that in order to restore consumer and business trust in the financial sector, there needs to be an initiative to create a regulatory environment within eu legislation that is more conducive to transparency, growth and innovation, elements which are all outlined in the paper.
it stands for a more ecological and safe means of transport compared to traveling by roads.
passenger water transport plays a crucial role in the efforts to achieve a more sustainable and efficient european transport sector.
better use of available passenger water transport capacity could not only help reduce congestion and co2 emissions, but also improve air quality and provide better transport services in general.
the report does not distinguish between small regular ferries, which play a key role in the sustainability of public transport as an alternative to citizens' daily commuting, and large ferries for the purpose of mass tourism.
it also supports the development of sustainable tourism, for example in the area of overcoming seasonal fluctuations, especially in remote and peripheral regions of the union such as coastal, island, lake and rural regions.
better use of available passenger water transport capacity could not only help reduce congestion and co2 emissions in road transport, but also improve air quality and provide better transport services in general.
the private sector has significant potential to achieve the sustainable development goals, in particular in the areas of respect for human rights, social inclusion and sustainability of projects.
i believe that aid needs to be better aligned with national development plans and internationally agreed sustainable development goals.
the biggest problem i see is that the original text, in its pre-trialogue version, contained a legally binding commitment to reduce the health burden on people from air pollution by 52% compared to 2005. the text voted at the same time, however, agrees with the council's proposed value of 49.6%, while the red line was 50%.
i welcome the agreement on reducing national emissions of certain air pollutants, even though the resulting compromise falls short of the european parliament's ambitions.
overall, the health-related emissions are to be reduced by 49,6% by 2030, which is clearly an improvement over the current situation.
it is also in line with the approved framework position of the czech republic and will have positive impacts on air quality both as a result of measures taken in the czech republic and as a result of reduced transboundary pollution.
it is important to recognise that air pollution not only has negative effects on health and the environment, but also causes external costs of between eur 330 and 400 billion, including direct economic damage of eur 15 billion (absence from work due to health problems), eur 4 billion (healthcare costs), eur 3 billion (loss of crop yields) and eur 1 billion as a result of damage to buildings.
last year, we made history by bringing all the major players to the climate talks, including those who have long refused to accept their share of responsibility for the fate of the world, including the united states.
we must protect health, the environment and lives.
in my view, precisely because air knows no borders, it is clearly a crossborder problem and the eu's competence to tackle air pollution in cooperation with the member states is absolutely unquestionable.
we in the czech republic, for example, have the ostrava region, which is suffering from emissions, exhaled into the air.
‒ i endorsed this report because the european union has made significant progress in the area of the protection of our environment and human health so far, but i believe that we have to continue in our efforts and keep leading by an example.
the commission’s proposal calls on members states to contribute to air quality by reducing the pollution caused by anthropogenic air emissions.
i am in favour of high standards of environmental legislation and that is why i supported this proposal ambitiously contributing to the eu’s global strategy to combat air pollution as well as the overall environmental legislative framework.
i supported the agreement reached by the ep and the council at second reading, which sets stricter national ceilings for emissions of air pollutants such as sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, volatile organic compounds (solvents, solvents, detergents), ammonia and fine particulate matter.
the adopted directive will contribute to improving air quality in the eu and in the czech republic its effects will be felt positively, especially by the inhabitants of border regions exposed to pollution from some neighbouring countries.
air pollution knows no borders and therefore the issue of air quality must be tackled at european level.
the revision of the directive on annual emission limits for toxic air pollutants aims, in particular, to ensure further reductions in these emissions and thus to prevent health risks linked to air quality.
i supported the european parliament's report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants and amending directive 2003/35/ec, which is at third reading.
the directive sets targets for reducing emissions of the most serious air pollutants (sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, volatile organic compounds or ammonia) by setting reduction targets for 2030 for each member state and the eu as a whole against the 2005 reference values.
the eu has committed to reducing its total emissions by 49.6% by 2030. although the european parliament went further in setting emission reduction targets than the commission's proposal, the czech republic has achieved achievable targets that will not impose an insurmountable economic burden.
it is also important for our country to limit cross-border pollution, which comes mainly from poland.
i am convinced that the targets for reducing emissions of the most serious pollutants we voted on today will contribute in the long term to reducing the negative impacts of these emissions on the environment and on people's health.
‒ air pollution is a major health risk in the eu that causes more than 400 000 premature deaths each year.
this directive will save lives: it will avoid tens of thousands of premature deaths annually and improve the quality of the environment.
meeting the new targets will cut the negative health effects of pollution by half by 2030. tackling air pollution also brings economic benefits to society, since the economic cost of the health impacts of air pollution is estimated at 3-9% of gdp.
‒ the current security environment is characterised by less predictability and, conversely, more interconnectedness of other sectoral areas linked to it.
this time, the european commission has proposed to renew the authorisation of this substance for a further 15 years (for glyphosate it has been granted 7), despite the fact that the uk environment agency has detected the common presence of this pesticide in surface and groundwater and that no relevant studies have yet been carried out on the carcinogenicity of benzocaine and its effects on the human endocrine system.
however, i am convinced, as the opponent is, that human and animal health and effective protection of the environment must come first, since the sustainability of agricultural production depends on all of these.
‒ while i consider it important to apply the precautionary principle when there is a potential danger for human or environmental health, in this case, several circumstances justify a more cautious approach, in particular against the background of the still unresolved questions over a proper definition for criteria for endocrine disruptors.
i would very much like us to take a really responsible and sensible approach to the environment.
at the same time, the emphasis is on economic stabilisation and sustainable growth of the country.
as vice-chair of the emis committee, i appreciated that the text of the resolution deplores the fact that the committee of inquiry on emissions from the automotive sector (emis) of the european parliament has received from the commission incomplete documentation lacking information that the commission considered irrelevant, that it calls on the commission to ensure the highest possible accuracy and full transparency in its work with regard to the documents provided, in full compliance with the principle of sincere cooperation, so that the emis committee can fully and effectively exercise its investigative powers.
as far as taxation is concerned, it is clear that the current system is not sustainable in the long term, and i would therefore personally welcome more far-reaching changes than those suggested in this report.
smuggling and poaching have particularly negative impacts on biodiversity, ecosystems, natural heritage and, consequently, species conservation.
the smuggling of wildlife goods is worth around 20 billion euros annually, with devastating effects on wildlife and biodiversity across the world.
i see this agreement as a further step in the deepening of eu-tuvalu relations, following on from the cotonou agreement, in which the eu committed itself, as part of its sustainable development strategy, to reducing and eventually eradicating poverty and progressively deepening the cooperation and integration of african, caribbean and pacific states into the world economy.
in this regard, it is important to develop synergies between the different funds and union policies in order to prevent the consequences of natural disasters as much as possible and, where the eu solidarity fund is used, also to ensure the consolidation and long-term sustainable development of reconstruction projects.
it is appropriate to add that the eu solidarity fund provides assistance for non-insurable losses and does not compensate for private losses, while long-term measures such as sustainable reconstruction or economic development or prevention activities are eligible for funding from other union instruments, in particular the european structural and investment funds.
it is in the interest of the european union that the countries of the west african region strengthen their competitiveness, improve the business environment and strengthen customs cooperation.
however, in addition to this undoubted success, it is worth noting that there are some cuts in the global europe chapter, namely in the budget line for emergency measures, asylum and migration and the european fund for sustainable development, which can be explained by the fact that it has not yet been formally established.
it is therefore necessary to coordinate properly the sustainable regeneration of the areas in order to recover the economic and social losses caused.
seas and oceans are considered an important element of the earth's ecological stability.
offshore oil and gas operations are conducted in increasingly extreme conditions and therefore additional measures are needed to effectively guarantee safety before an accident occurs that would have serious and devastating consequences for the environment and the economy of marine and coastal areas.
further harmonised eu-level rules on liability, compensation and financial security have prevented future accidents on the basis of the precautionary and preventive principles, as well as the 'polluter pays' principle and the principles of sustainability.
offshore oil and gas exploration and production is increasingly taking place in extreme conditions and locations and can have significant to devastating impacts on marine ecosystems, the environment and the economies of maritime areas.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as i believe that access to energy is one of the key drivers for development in all regions.
in regions where there is lack of energy infrastructure, there is a way to develop renewable sources of energy and help to shift to sustainable ways of energy production.
the eu has to be able to give more financial support to those countries where access to energy is critical.
i am convinced that the commission's 'energy for development' initiative to provide access to sustainable energy for an additional 500 million people in developing countries by 2030 needs to be fully supported, by building technical expertise in developing countries and promoting capacity building and technology transfer, recognising that energy is an essential enabler for a number of other areas such as health, education, clean water, agriculture, telecommunications and internet connectivity.
at the same time, there is a need to better coordinate the various international initiatives aimed at promoting access to energy from sustainable sources in developing countries, especially in africa.
i believe that access to affordable, sustainable and safe energy is essential to meet basic human needs and rights such as access to drinking water, healthcare, education or heat.
energy is a key driver of development and therefore a crucial security and geopolitical issue, and access to energy can very easily become the cause of serious conflicts.
there is a clear and very strong link between security and energy issues.
the report calls on the commission to take concrete steps to improve access to energy, while monitoring and publishing the results.
any such construction for which funding is approved must comply with the world commission on dams' guidelines and five basic criteria: fairness, efficiency, multi-stakeholder decision-making, sustainability and accountability.
i am a long-time advocate for the adoption of highly efficient, sustainable and energy-efficient technologies, which can be a key tool for long-term solutions to the problem of access to energy resources, especially in developing countries.
and i think we would all agree that the most sustainable mode of transport is the railway.
the opening of the railway market to competition should increase the pressure on railway companies to survive in a competitive environment and thus also to attract new investments.
however, we will only succeed in creating a competitive railway environment if we create a level playing field for railway undertakings in europe.
madam president, this package is one of a series of legislative measures that we have been waiting for over the last year and a half and which are fundamentally changing the face of the european union's current energy sector.
only the energy savings target was changed and slightly increased.
we're going to have to work on that, because the old cliché is that the best energy is the energy we don't have to produce.
increased energy savings can save thousands of lives and bring billions of euros in additional revenue if properly addressed.
but here i come to the biggest weakness of the text, which is supposed to provide clean energy for all europeans.
the commission promises to put the consumer at the heart of its new approach, but the package lacks concrete steps to tackle energy poverty.
with increased energy efficiency, the enormous costs that will be imposed on energy suppliers are at the risk of being borne by the consumer, and the most vulnerable are the most vulnerable.
we have a huge amount of work to do, and we should go back to the basics, that affordable energy must be the right of every citizen of the european union, and we should just build on that.
commissioner, madam president, the winter energy package was supposed to be a major breakthrough in energy policy and i still believe it could be.
the outcome will also depend on how we in the european parliament manage to push through the package of measures that we proposed in the report on the implementation of the energy efficiency directive and in many other reports that we have adopted over the past two years.
i would like to focus specifically on the area of energy efficiency, which i consider to be one of the most crucial aspects of the future set-up of the entire energy market.
i don't suppose there's anyone who's ever questioned the importance of energy conservation.
reducing consumption can reduce our dependence on imports, strengthen our energy security and help households at risk of energy poverty.
madam president, commissioners, i consider the winter energy package to be one of the most important, but also very risky, materials for the coming decades.
energy has become an essential part of people's lives, everyone needs to be lit and heated at affordable market prices, uncorrupted, unpriced by various political interests.
as much as i agree with much of the text, i find it very problematic to set binding energy efficiency targets of 30% as an administrative decision.
if we overreach, the impact on safety, investment costs and the environment can be completely opposite and destructive.
the energy union must be the driving force for an open energy market that will help the competitiveness of member states and industry.
what i am looking forward to seeing is whether this is complex proposal which will do away with distortions of the market and we will have an energy union and a functioning internal market.
for me, the absolutely key issue is whether a company will find it viable to invest in the energy market.
once that happens, we will have the functionality of the internal market, so issues like the design of the energy market, issues of price zones, issues of capacity mechanisms and so on, these have to be assessed in a complex way and then we might find out whether the target xy is ambitious or realistic or not, but as i say, the functionality is the absolute key issue and we will assess it on the basis of the impact assessments, for sure.
the european commission is committed to an ambitious target of reducing co2 emissions by at least 40% by 2030. it assumes that this can be achieved by involving three programmes.
firstly, it is about increasing energy efficiency, secondly, it is about leading the way in the development of renewable energy sources and thirdly, it is about a new customer relationship.
their efficiency could increase the energy produced by photovoltaic panels from the current 11% to about 22%.
if the european commission's target of having 1% of energy in hydrogen by 2020, as confirmed by the ep, is met, we can expect a rapid expansion of the hydrogen economy.
african countries need to strengthen their competitiveness, improve their business environment and improve their political culture.
‒ i supported this recommendation because i am in favour of higher standards of protection of the marine environment.
i consider the total ban on bottom trawling below 800 metres a necessary measure in order to preserve the marine ecosystem in eu waters.
the european union should maintain its position of the key player leading by example in the area of environmental protection.
deep-sea fishing is another of the huge environmental problems associated with the rate at which humanity is depleting natural resources.
human encroachment on ecosystems is resulting in an unprecedented loss of biodiversity and loss of ecosystem services that are vital to us as human beings.
‒ the deep sea is the largest habitat on earth, which hosts biologically significant ecosystems, playing an important role in the ocean ecosystem.
‒ i supported the amendments to parliament’s rules of procedure in order to have a more streamlined and efficient working environment in which meps can represent their citizens in an even more transparent manner.
i agree with the need to focus on creative industries and their position in this dynamic environment.
if this continues, i am convinced that we will lack the political energy and with it the determination to tackle the fundamental problems facing the union as a whole.
that despite the unpredictability of the external environment, we have control over our own direction.
the european union as a conscious driver in the fight against climate change.
and when i talk about security, i don't just mean external and internal security, the fight against terrorism, but also economic and social security, job security, income security, climate and environmental security.
moreover, to realise the full potential of the single market, we need an affordable, stable and sustainable supply of clean energy.
the energy union can help us achieve this.
an ambitious and effective climate policy is also an integral part of the energy union.
by ratifying the paris agreement, the european union has confirmed its global leadership in the fight against climate change.
and progress on the creation of a european fund for sustainable development should help.
it aims in particular to address the root causes of migration by creating jobs, promoting investment and facilitating sustainable development in partner countries.
thanks to considerable efforts, the slovak side has managed to ensure that farmers now have a chance to enjoy a transparent and unfair trading environment.
i consider this a major achievement, important for the future of the whole sector and for the sustainable development of the european union.
ecuador is in a complicated regional and international situation and i believe that closer cooperation will stimulate its sustainable economic and social development.
i see as a positive contribution of the trade agreement the commitments of ecuador to the protection of workers and the environment, which are linked to ecuador's accession to the trade agreement.
this agreement respects the legal and administrative provisions for the conservation and sustainable use of the living resources in skagerrak.
i welcome the fact that the report emphasises the need to improve the employability of all workers through appropriate training, to be offered as part of a coordinated package and adapted not only to the needs of the workers made redundant but also to the existing business environment.
supporters of liberalisation talk of the pressure to be more efficient in a competitive environment, while opponents argue that in the long term, liberalisation has failed to deliver better and safer services for passengers and more dignified working conditions.
supporters of liberalisation talk of the pressure to be more efficient in a competitive environment, while opponents argue that in the long term, liberalisation has failed to deliver better and safer services for passengers and more dignified working conditions.
the proposal will also help to improve the environment, the quality of services and lower prices for customers.
supporters of liberalisation talk of the pressure to be more efficient in a competitive environment, while opponents argue that in the long term, liberalisation has failed to deliver better and safer services for passengers and more dignified working conditions.
from the passenger's point of view, the increased competitive environment should lead to a reduction in the cost and quality of the services.
the environmental impact is significant and emissions from steel processing and coal use are an important item in the context of eu environmental policies.
we must find effective and sustainable solutions that do not lead to the internal implosion of our whole.
‒ in the context of the adopted report, i fully share the recommendation that the market-oriented cap should further develop climate, health and economic risk management tools, in particular the different types of insurance against risks in agricultural production, income stabilisation tools, mechanisms for individual services and equity funds, in order to limit the impact of price volatility and to promote future-oriented management of agricultural holdings.
farmers are often exposed to price volatility due to many factors, whether natural or economic, such as exchange rates or the prices of fertilisers and energy.
most citizens ask for help in the areas of the environment, justice, the internal market or fundamental rights.
when the modernisation of the customs union was launched in 2003 with the aim of introducing a paperless environment, it was important to move quickly.