small-scale and artisanal fisheries have a generally good reputation in terms of their selectivity and low impact on marine ecosystems, as well as their low energy consumption.
the aim is to promote techniques of fishing which are low in energy consumption and highly selective.
it is true that every year, according to the european commission itself, 400 000 people die prematurely because of air pollution.
so we want to find a solution to the real drive emissions.
a majority in the environment committee said that the proposal was not strict enough, so we reject it.
i know from many conversations, including those with committed environmental politicians in the council of ministers, that it is not going to be that if we reject the proposal we will automatically get a stricter one, but that we may not get any result at all.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs.
i think we must be realistic, because if we reject it as you have recommended, we cannot be sure that the environment will be better and that we will achieve more, because there is a risk that the next legislative act will come much later.
will you include the principle of real driving emissions in your revision of the type-approval which you intend to submit at the end of this month?
i agree with fabio de masi that this cannot be solved by turning a few screws in the financial sector, but we need a policy that channels this surplus capital into sustainable investments.
the climate conference should have reached dg fisma, and you, lord hill, too.
the two i would like to highlight in particular are the general data protection regulation, which you have brought to a conclusion, and the contribution of your presidency - your personal contribution and that of your minister dieschbourg - to the paris climate conference.
the european parliament, the european commission and the member states have always stressed that in order to move towards the opening of the first chapters, parallel and sustainable progress in the framework of the dialogue with kosovo and rule of law issues is needed.
on 25 august, serbia reached key agreements with kosovo on the establishment of the association/community of serb majority municipalities in kosovo, and on energy, telecoms and the bridge in mitrovica.
what changes do we need to make in the new legal framework or legislation to ensure good and sustainable jobs in the digital age?
we are always talking about citizens' trust in the digital environment.
the aim is to create a fair environment for all, because in the audiovisual media sector the distinction between linear and non-linear media services is outdated.
but just as important -- a second note -- is that we're creating an ecosystem for start-ups and for venture capitalists.
protecting the marine environment and preserving our biodiversity is an important task for the eu, which must be addressed in particular in the area of the common fisheries policy.
‒ red tuna is an important component of biodiversity in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean.
i therefore support the efforts to achieve a uniform and, above all, sustainable fishing regime throughout europe.
the european council was an opportunity for the leaders to assess the state of play in building the energy union.
when i proposed the energy union concept as polish prime minister, this was one of my major goals.
talking about the energy union, leaders had an exchange on the nord stream ii project.
some of them were very critical, and we also discussed the conditions that need to be met by major energy infrastructure projects.
we reiterated that any new infrastructure should be fully in line with the energy union objectives, not to mention the obvious obligation that all projects have to comply with all eu laws, including the third energy package.
leaders praised president hollande and congratulated him on the successful hosting of the cop21 and on the agreement of the first ever, legally-binding global climate deal.
we have asked the commission and the council to assess fully what the paris agreement implies for our own energy and climate policy mix.
the historic agreement on climate change in december demonstrated the european union's capacity for global leadership.
and paris, as a symbol of the fight against climate change, is also a european success.
and on the other hand, we also know that the numbers that we have in many areas are challenging, too high, and we have to get back to reliable, sustainable numbers.
first the german politicians wanted to save the world climate, then the euro, three times greece, the refugees of the world, and now they also want to save the polish democracy.
i have asked the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection to look into this matter at the request of the conference of presidents.
let me be clear: the current numbers are not sustainable.
so it is both logical and necessary that we devote a lot of time and energy to the refugee crisis in the month ahead.
but i am also thinking of the challenges and opportunities in the area of energy and climate change.
this is true of the digital single market, it is true of the energy union, it is true of the capital markets union.
i would ask you not only to talk about the new legislative topics, such as the internal energy market, digital, but also to talk in the councils about implementation, to talk about implementation, so that what is decided in europe is also implemented at national level.
please also set more ambitious targets for the fight against climate change.
making achievements in that direction is important in order to have better regulation and the chance of a common market, but we must also be effective when it comes to europe’s values of social justice, environmental protection and democracy.
we must also look more closely at the need to strengthen where fair value chains are needed, where fair production and respect for workers' rights and environmental standards are guaranteed.
‒ i voted in favour of the report because it will enable us to work in a safer working environment and at the same time provide workers with reliable protection.
from the point of view of internal market policy and in view of our efforts to improve legislation and simplify the legal environment, it is imperative that conformity assessment procedures be uniform and identical in all member states.
this regime provides for substantial customs relief for exports to the eu in return for ratification and implementation of 27 conventions on labour rights and environmental issues.
the aim of the application is to deprive kyrgyzstan of certain privileges granted under the special scheme for sustainable development and good governance (sgd+).
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statement by laurent fabius, president of the paris climate conference, on cop 21 (2016/2524 ((rsp)).
for the first time, all the countries of the world have committed themselves to the fight against climate change.
195 countries have agreed on clear and ambitious targets for climate action.
but there is no doubt that you, mr fabius, as president of the climate conference, have a huge part to play in the success of this summit.
they have shown that the european union can and will take a leading role in climate action - and we believe it must!
president of the paris climate conference cop 21. mr president, commissioner cañete, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, i would first of all like to thank president schulz very much for inviting me, as president of cop 21, to present to you the main outlines of the agreement which was adopted on 12 december last in paris, and also to talk to you, as i think you will be interested in, about the next steps.
in this context, the paris climate conference has been a source of hope.
i had the opportunity last october to explain to your committees on the environment and foreign affairs what a good agreement in paris would look like.
the agreement is recognised as ambitious; it includes, in the long term, limiting global warming to 2 degrees, as well as committing to continue efforts to reach 1.5 degrees and carbon neutrality in the second half of the century.
this is particularly true with regard to the level of ambition of the agreement, and i want to welcome in particular the commitment that was shown in mr pargneaux's report, here, entitled 'towards a new international climate agreement in paris', which you adopted in october 2015, before the conference.
beyond the agreement itself, cop 21 brought together, for the first time on this scale, a large number of non-governmental actors to the climate cause.
in the end, i think a shifting dynamic has been set in motion towards low-carbon development; in my view, this dynamic is irreversible.
the word 'historic' is often used, a little wrongly and through and through, but in this case i believe that, for once, the word 'historic' is not misused and that, in the indispensable fight against climate change, there will be a before paris and after paris.
you are probably aware that at least 55 countries, representing 55% of greenhouse gas emissions, must ratify the agreement for it to enter into force, and of course as many european and world leaders as possible must be present on 22 april.
in particular, we will need to - you will understand - agree on a common and precise definition of climate finance; we will have to determine the exact modalities of the so-called five-year review of national commitments, and we will have to set rules for transparency in the monitoring of commitments.
i think that france has made a significant contribution to the widespread introduction of early warning systems for disasters, the so-called crews system, and the climate insurance system in vulnerable countries, on which germany, for example, has worked very hard.
i am also thinking of the protection of tropical forests and i would like to stress our financial commitments to renewable energy in africa, which must be honoured swiftly and fully.
beyond these four sets of actions, these four "p's", we will also have to move forward in the important sectors that were not covered by the paris agreement and for which action is essential: air transport, in particular, maritime transport and an agreement in principle that was reached by the parties to the montreal protocol to prepare, in 2016, an amendment to eliminate hfc refrigerants, which are strong emitters of greenhouse gases, and here, quick decisions will have to be made.
we have a number of negotiations ahead of us, including the reform of the ets carbon market and the sharing of effort in the sectors not covered by the ets - i am thinking in particular of buildings, transport and agriculture.
it will also be necessary to take up the european energy union project to achieve the energy transition in europe, emphasizing the new jobs that can be created as a result, because - i insist - the ecological transition is not only a constraint, it is also a major opportunity.
many texts will be tabled by the commission in 2016 to move forward with this ambitious project - i am thinking in particular of strengthening our commitments to the development of renewable energy or energy efficiency.
finally, we must strengthen our european action in favour of sustainable development in our southern partners.
the european union, which is already, i would remind you, the leading donor in the field of climate, will have to continue and, if possible, increase its support for these countries in financial, technological and expertise terms.
in sum, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the paris conference is therefore undoubtedly a success in the fight against climate change, even if it is obviously not the final point.
the paris agreement is not just about climate in the narrow sense; it will serve the environment in general, biodiversity, public health, food security and, more broadly, development.
food and water shortages, the risk of mass migration of populations due to the effects of global warming, the threat of conflicts over control of fossil resources - unchecked climate change would ultimately lead to widespread conflict.
by rejecting this drift, as you did in paris, and by turning the world towards renewable and low-carbon energy, the agreement of 12 december, to which you made a powerful contribution, is thus a work of peace for present and future generations.
you have done a very good job, and you have put all your energy and political weight into this.
this agreement is not only important for climate protection, but it is a very important sign in these troubled times, in this difficult year of 2015. the world is in turmoil, and we have succeeded, you have succeeded, in reaching an agreement in which some of the countries at war have committed themselves to fighting together.
over 190 countries have made concrete commitments to reduce greenhouse gases, and we have the long-term goal of carbon neutrality.
and if the international civil aviation organization (icao) is unable to achieve a reduction in greenhouse gases - reduction, not just stabilization - then our legislation will come back into force, including for international air traffic.
yemen was a country where we had a ‘pre-announced’ crisis: a high population growth rate, ecological disasters, a very difficult environment and bad governance, and that combination has led, especially in the region that yemen finds itself in, to the crisis we are seeing now.
we are comforted by the declarations of the government of yemen and the saudi authorities regarding their commitment – and this is important – to these negotiations, and expect that they will proceed with the aim of implementing a sustainable ceasefire and confidence-building steps leading to the implementation of united nations security council resolution 2216. on the issue of médecins sans frontières, this is also an issue that for very good reasons is being raised by the members of the european parliament.
complementary efforts on the ground to promote domestic economic development, complementary efforts to stimulate investment in infrastructure and in the competitiveness and modernisation of the economy, and also efforts to cushion social hardships of structural reform, such as those caused by the increase in energy prices.
it begins with: welcomes the creation of a new government after a long period of stalemate and unsuccessful attempts to form a governmentand ends: reminds the moldovan parties of the need to enhance political stability in order to guarantee a sustainable success of the reforms and hopes that the new government will be able to deliver substantial results.
i hope that this agreement will help us to achieve greater stability in the balkans and strengthen the political dialogue that must be conducted across borders, particularly on energy supply and environmental protection.
‒ i voted against the european parliament resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community, of the one part, and kosovo, of the other part.
mr ransdorf was vice-chairman of the committee on industry, research and energy and a member of the euronest delegation and the delegation to the eu-ukraine parliamentary association committee.
the rotten loans in the italian banking system and the attempt to dump the toxic waste with a lot of lametta on the taxpayers, however, shows that the euro crisis continues!
despite a challenging global environment, the eu growth forecast is good: 1.7%.
in a normal economic environment, the fixing of the key rate is sufficient.
the agreement should also not prevent member states from adopting more stringent rules on social and environmental matters.
these include education, health, water supply and waste management.
we can agree on rules for price formation, but also on rules to prevent social and environmental dumping.
but if you look at west africa, of course, there are some issues of sustainable development.
and that's why we need to focus on sustainability, especially in west africa.
and there we have - particularly in the sustainability chapter - a lot of very positive references.
and of course we want to know how these three elements are then also embedded in time, so that when we do a ratification of the epa with west africa, we also make sure that sustainability is adequately ensured.
member of the commission.– madam president, the ‘trade for all’ communication that the commission and i presented to you last year stresses our commitment to ensuring that trade agreements deliver concrete results, including on sustainable development, and that our values are always promoted in our trade relations.
that means the overarching sustainable development objective, including its social, economic and environmental components.
it also means the essential elements of the cotonou agreement, including human rights, and thirdly, it means specific provisions on trade and labour standards and environment.
to make sure that the epa lives up to its ambition, the commission will pay particular attention to monitoring it – including as regards sustainable development aspects.
a jointly-agreed competitiveness observatory will monitor and assess the overall impact of the epa, including the way in which the sustainable development objectives are achieved.
let me insist that, from the commission side, we will pay particular attention to human rights, labour standards and environmental protection in those reviews.
the objective is to promote sustainable development consideration in all relevant areas of the epa.
i think there are a couple of shortcomings there still; we do not have a sustainable development chapter.
the epp group supports a strong and targeted parliamentary response to the mid-term review of the biodiversity strategy and sees in it a reference to the current fitness check of the two key european nature conservation directives.
our owninitiative report should focus on the midterm evaluation in the narrow sense and not try to cover the broad field of the whole of biodiversity.
broad acceptance and participation by all concerned actors is essential for an improved biodiversity.
it is probably indisputable that biodiversity is a good worth protecting and that further efforts are needed to preserve it.
i am particularly concerned about agriculture and forestry, which play a major role in the conservation of biodiversity.
ladies and gentlemen, i very much welcome the report on the 'mid-term evaluation of the eu strategy for the conservation of biodiversity' presented here.
the term 'biodiversity' refers to several levels of our lives: species diversity, genetic diversity, and the diversity of habitats and ecosystems.
a rich biodiversity is an important basis for the preservation of natural processes that serve man.
it is important that we introduce measures to reduce the loss of biodiversity.
the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment.
in the last few months, we have been working with the taxe committee of inquiry to create the climate in which the commission was able to put forward proposals today - and last summer - that go beyond anything that has been possible in the last ten years.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
‒ i voted today in favour of the adoption of the 1998 amendment to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution concerning heavy metals, as i expressly welcome an increase in environmental and consumer protection in this area.
‒ the 1998 protocol on heavy metals, which aims to reduce and control anthropogenic emissions into the air of lead, cadmium and mercury, was amended in 2012 with stricter emission limit values for dust emissions from some major stationary sources and flexible transitional arrangements.
the pops protocol, which aims to control, reduce or eliminate discharges, emissions and losses of persistent organic pollutants, was amended in 2009, when new substances were added to its scope and provisions for existing substances were updated.
given the widespread impact of these substances on human health and on biodiversity and the need for international collaboration on this particular topic, i have voted in favour of this report.
i have agreed to the european parliament resolution on adoption of the 1998 amendment to the protocol to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution on heavy metals emissions of heavy metals and pollutants have a lasting adverse impact on human health and the environment.
these substances do not respect borders and therefore international cooperation is needed to put in place effective measures to protect our health and our environment.
in other words, the protocols are tools to help europe control emissions.
‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the 1998 amendments to the protocol to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution on persistent organic pollutants, as i expressly welcome an increase in environmental and consumer protection in this area.
‒ the 1998 protocol on heavy metals, which aims to reduce and control anthropogenic emissions into the air of lead, cadmium and mercury, was amended in 2012 with stricter emission limit values for dust emissions from some major stationary sources and flexible transitional arrangements.
the pops protocol, which aims to control, reduce or eliminate discharges, emissions and losses of persistent organic pollutants, was amended in 2009, when new substances were added to its scope and provisions for existing substances were updated.
given the widespread impact of these substances on human health and on biodiversity and the need for international collaboration on this particular topic, i have voted in favour of this report.
‒ i voted in favour of the revised convention because it is important to keep updating the limit values for organic pollution.
i have agreed to the european parliament resolution on the adoption of the amendments to the 1998 protocol to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution concerning persistent organic pollutants.
the heavy metal and pollutant emissions have a lasting negative impact on human health and the environment.
these substances do not respect borders and therefore international cooperation is needed to put in place effective measures to protect our health and our environment.
in other words, the protocols are tools to help europe control emissions.
we must continue to make joint efforts to restore our ecosystems and also to protect the biodiversity of the outermost regions and of the overseas countries and territories.
‒ i voted today for the report on the mid-term evaluation of the eu biodiversity strategy, as i believe that biodiversity is an important, cross-border issue.
the biodiversity that is important for this must continue to be protected.
‒ this report is the parliament’s response to the commission’s eu biodiversity strategy mid-term review and its input to the ongoing fitness check of the birds and habitats directives.
the rapporteur calls for the commission and the member states to make achieving the 2020 targets an urgent political priority, noting the alarming trend in biodiversity loss.
he suggests measures such as deeper integration of biodiversity in policy areas like agriculture and insists on the fact that nature policies can go hand in hand with economic development, while also stating that a full implementation of the directive is necessary to achieve the 2020 targets.
the rapporteur also points out that one in six eu jobs is dependent to some extent on nature and biodiversity and that the socio-economic opportunity costs of missing the targets amounts to eur 50 billion per year.
this repercussion of biodiversity loss are therefore numerous and widespread, and that is why i have voted in favour of this report.
‒ i agreed to the report because agriculture and forestry are also recognised as important custodians of biodiversity.
the migration pressure has not decreased and the presidency considers that the schengen area without internal borders is only sustainable if the external borders are effectively controlled.
we live in an open europe today, we have somewhat overcome the euro crisis with two per cent growth, and we were the model for the world in paris on climate change.
i have to say, madam president, the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
aid is voluntary and must be possible, it must be sustainable.
our legislation in these two areas is considered to be among the strictest in the world and i will ensure that a high level of protection for human health and the environment, including from endocrine disruptors, is fully maintained.
how many substances have been approved which no longer meet the criteria for authorization but which are still in circulation and are endangering users, consumers and the environment?
our conclusions will be scrutinized closely, while many observers abound daily in comments that fall roughly into two subcategories: those who claim that europe is slowly disintegrating from psychodrama to psychodrama and those who expect european leaders to show a burst of energy, foresight and long-term vision.
it is essential to strengthen our return policy across europe: this is a key element in restoring our citizens' confidence in our handling of refugee flows and in devoting our energy and resources to those who are entitled to international protection.
that is why it is so important, as the commission and the dutch presidency are saying, to complete the single market, to build our energy union, to complete the digital single market and to establish a capital markets union.
so looking to the minsk agreement, looking to the iran deal and looking to the climate deal achieved in paris recently, european strength is visible again and again.
the commission has delivered very quickly on the issue of car emissions.
i therefore voted against the environment committee's rejection of the motion, following the german proverb 'better a sparrow in the hand than a dove on the roof'.
today the majority of this parliament has shown responsibility for industry, for workers and for the environment.
‒ i voted today against the objections under article 106 cs on emissions from light passenger and commercial vehicles (euro 6) because i do not consider the approach of new implementing provisions in parts that it calls for to be sensible and profitable.
‒ a major reason why member states cannot comply with the limit values for nox concentrations in air is the discrepancy between the real driving conditions of diesel vehicles, where much higher emissions are expected, and the artificial driving conditions in the laboratory.
the introduction of 'real driving emission' tests will help to reduce nox emissions from diesel engines.
some others see the measure as a delay in favour of the automotive industry and a weakening of the implementation of eu environmental legislation.
i voted against the objection because i consider innovation in the field of emissions testing to be important.
the vote was an important step towards sensible and practical environmental legislation: reducing emissions from road transport will significantly improve the health and quality of life of citizens.
‒ a major reason why member states cannot comply with the limit values for nitrogen oxide concentrations in the air is the discrepancy between the real driving conditions of diesel vehicles, where much higher emissions are expected, and the artificial driving conditions in the laboratory.
the introduction of 'real driving emission' tests will help to reduce nitrogen oxide emissions from diesel engines.
some others see the measure as a delay in favour of the automotive industry and a weakening of the implementation of eu environmental legislation.
i voted against the objection because i consider innovation in the field of emissions testing to be important.
‒ a major reason why member states cannot comply with the limit values for nox concentrations in air is the discrepancy between the real driving conditions of diesel vehicles, where much higher emissions are expected, and the artificial driving conditions in the laboratory.
the introduction of 'real driving emission' tests will help to reduce nox emissions from diesel engines.
some others see the measure as a delay in favour of the automotive industry and a weakening of the implementation of eu environmental legislation.
i voted against the objection because i consider innovation in the field of emissions testing to be important.
‒ i voted against the resolution because it delays the faster mapping of actual car emissions in operation.
the epp is committed to the rapid and realistic mapping of emissions actually caused by driving and wants to abolish measurements on the test bench.
the commission's original proposal must therefore be followed, because it will bring us faster to better regulation of emissions actually caused by driving.
i have agreed to the european parliament resolution on objections under article 106 cs concerning emissions from light passenger and commercial vehicles (euro 6).
i am not concerned with whether the draft takes environmental concerns into account or whether it is too much in the interests of industry.
as with any agreement, we will only agree to the agreement if it does not compromise our high standards of protection, whether in consumer, labour and environmental protection or data protection.
it is also about creating a friendly environment for an independent media.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly aspects of the environment.
the eu's signature would be the signal for transparency in the energy charter.
the energy charter is the only treaty to date where isds is provided for by the european union - by the way, since 1994, well before the lisbon treaty - and the signature of the member states would then be the signal that the bilateral isds treaties would also become transparent.
that is what the energy charter secretariat says, by the way.
the convention in question would apply in respect of the eu for one treaty only, namely the energy charter treaty you mentioned.
despite a number of discussions within the council last year on the basis of the proposals by the commission for decisions on the signature and conclusions of the convention, not all member states who remain competent for matters covered by the mauritius convention agree that this convention should be applied to the energy charter treaty.
in this regard, bilateral contacts with the delegations concerned continue in order to iron out the remaining differences, because i think there is also the risk that you mentioned to our image in the outside world, and we encourage all member states to assume a constructive position on the issue in order to allow the eu to sign a convention with respect to the energy charter treaty.
the union's accession to the convention would undoubtedly help to bring the dubious isds proceedings brought against eu member states' governments under the energy charter treaty into the public eye.
the real problem, however, is the isds procedure in the energy charter treaty itself.
italy has now decided to withdraw from the energy charter treaty in order to avoid being constantly threatened with isds proceedings.
mr scholz, you have just mentioned that 'for-profit companies are suing on the basis of the energy charter'.
we must create an environment where the victims are not afraid to report sexual harassment and violence, like they would if they had become victims of robbery.
the resolution welcomes the progress serbia has made so far, including improvements in the business environment and the reduction of the budget deficit.
these include improving the business environment and reducing the budget deficit.
the resolution welcomes the progress serbia has made so far, including improvements in the business environment and the reduction of the budget deficit.
the resolution welcomes the progress serbia has made so far, including improvements in the business environment and the reduction of the budget deficit.
this is essential for the efficient use of the seas for energy production.
we had the climate conference in paris a few months ago.
the eu has been very active in promoting climate goals.
transport accounts for 25% of all emissions and is the only sector where emissions have increased by 22% since 1990; in industry, they have fallen by 38%.
so we need to change mobility to meet the climate goals.
if you do that, you'll never reach the climate goals!
we can safeguard mobility and protect the climate, but not by shutting down 30 to 40% of romania's rail network.
and the rail is the only way we can stop climate change.
so let us continue to work together with the same sense of urgency to lift the remaining barriers and to foster a truly favourable investment climate.
however, these reforms should be continued, to stimulate growth and to create a positive environment for the creation of quality jobs.
the economic environment is not improved by inventing new indicators.
in order not to waste any more time, i propose that we suspend the final vote and immediately enter into a trilogue with the council so that we can find a solution as quickly as possible and organise real aid for tunisia.
the agreement should be comprehensive, covering the sectors of agricultural products, services, public procurement, intellectual property, public procurement and sustainable development.
the content of the agreement will cover investment, trade in goods and services, electronic commerce, public procurement, energy, state-owned enterprises, competition, the fight against corruption and regulatory issues, in particular the needs of smes, which are important to me personally, while maintaining the level of consumer, environmental, social and labour protection.
good animal health makes a vital contribution to the sustainability of our agriculture and aquaculture sectors.
the new regulation will bring a more efficient and streamlined system to combat transmissible animal diseases, safeguard human and animal health, and contribute to a safer and more competitive environment for our agriculture and aquaculture sectors.
the aim is to increase the number of educational activities aimed at making agriculture, public health and the environment more relevant and visible to children.
‒ i voted in favour of the report because modern port management is a prerequisite for the efficient use of ports and an investment-friendly climate.
the commission's proposal aims to contribute to a more efficient, better connected and more sustainable operation of the trans-european transport network, inter alia by modernising port services and operations and creating an attractive environment for investment in ports.
for the longer run, we need to take a fresh look at dublin in order to make sure that we build a sustainable european asylum system.
the fight against nuclear energy is part of my political biography.
sustainable development cooperation is currently the only effective instrument that can help to combat the causes of displacement and migration.
this year’s european semester takes place in a complex global environment.
first of all, i would like to say on behalf of the epp group that it is good that we had the summit last monday and that for the first time a concrete and comprehensive solution is in sight, that we are talking to each other, that europe is on the way to finding a common solution together with turkey, because only that is a sustainable solution.
‒ as a member of the environment committee, i am in favour of setting limits for sulphur in maritime transport in view of the high level of air pollution.
emissions from shipping are soon to exceed those from all other land-based sources.
on the other hand, action was also urgently needed to meet climate objectives.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the children are not exposed to the dangers of the environment.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the children are not exposed to the dangers of the environment.
we believe that this is the only way to achieve an efficient and sustainable budget.
we believe that this is the only way to achieve an efficient and sustainable budget.
we believe that this is the only way to achieve an efficient and sustainable budget.
we believe that this is the only way to achieve an efficient and sustainable budget.
in practice, this increases the competitiveness and sustainability of the union economy.
but a sin that is really not annoying is the founding of the alternative for germany, because you have laid the foundation in germany for this climate of fear and incitement to become much worse in our country.
firstly, all political parties need to assume their responsibilities and ensure the full implementation of all their commitments in a sustainable manner.
i welcome very much that the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) adopted its report on 17 february by an overwhelming majority.
the commission appreciates in particular the efforts made in proposing constructive amendments and concrete alternatives regarding the provisions related to labelling, environmental risk assessment, harmonisation of all products, pharmacovigilance and last, but not least, on amr.
to assist this process i will put in place in the coming months, a one-health amr network to bring together member states’ experts from both the veterinary and human health domains, as well as actors from the environmental sector.
and we also have to deal with the environmental impact of antibiotics, particularly in the manufacturing and use of antibiotics.
i am also pleased and i thank both rapporteurs very warmly and specifically for the fact that we have succeeded in including the environmental impact of the production process and the disposal of the residues on the field and that we are also looking very closely at what environmental impact we have and how we can deal with it.
we have postponed this debate because we have been discussing in the environment committee, in all calmness, what a resolution should look like, what should be done, because we did not have the information.
i believe that we must now also support the countries concerned with preventive measures, hygiene measures, improved waste water treatment; for example, where mosquitoes are common, the conditions are usually not right.
we also have to remember that we are, of course, continuing to push the mosquitoes to spread if we don't do something about climate change.
(the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– improving the banking union is neither a necessary, nor a sufficient condition to produce economic growth, but it is very important for the long-term sound functioning of our economies, and so it is important for sustainable growth.
the report looks at improving access to medicines, increasing incentives, promoting innovation, tackling antibiotic resistance and protecting the environment.
written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the motion for a resolution tabled by mr pavel poc, ms kateřina konečná, mr bas eickhout, ms piernicola pedicini, mr mark demesmaeker, mr sirpa pietikäinen and ms frédérique ries on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the draft commission implementing regulation renewing the approval of the active substance glyphosate in accordance with regulation (ec) no 1107/2009 of the european parliament and of the council concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market, and amending the annex to implementing regulation (eu) no 540/2011 (d044281-01 - 2016/2624 (rsp)) (b8-0439/2016).
before members express their position on this draft resolution, i would like to recall a few important points that were raised when this was discussed in parliament’s committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
there's a massive loss of biodiversity in the use of this agent, which is still applied to 40 percent of the land, and has increased by 70 percent in the last 10 years, and glyphosate is now detectable everywhere, in beer, in grain, and in us.
the basic question is: can economic reasons be given more weight than environmental or health reasons?
catch the eye
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has tabled a motion for a resolution to wind up the debate.
we are importing fish from south-east asia, china and russia, and we are putting them on the market, and everywhere we are going to have to control the principle that quality and sustainability are also enforced in fisheries.
we also talk a lot about sustainability at different levels.
but overproduction is not a form of sustainability, and certainly not if we have to bring the food from overseas here and then dump our surpluses, our overproduction, back on the world market.
let us organize an adaptation to the market, and with this we take a first step towards sustainability.
this means: no regulatory market order, deregulation, surpluses, concentration processes, many farms giving up, extreme pressure on people, animals, the environment, and of course the loss of quality of many products.
‒ i voted in favour of the 'fisheries partnership agreement with denmark and greenland: fishing opportunities and financial compensation' because, as the representative of the mecklenburg-western pomerania coastal region, i strongly support the promotion of sustainable, highly medium-sized fisheries and because marine biodiversity management cannot end at the eu's external borders.
i believe that the sustainable harmonization of fisheries rules and responsible coordination with surrounding countries in the waters are urgently needed.
fisheries in europe, large and small, are committed to responsible, sustainable fishing, which recognises the needs of biodiversity.
‒ i welcome the united nations convention on the law of the sea on the sustainable and selective use and conservation of biological diversity beyond national territories.
it is important to work hard to develop an international legally binding instrument to address shortcomings in this still very unexplored area and to protect the environment.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on fisheries aspects under the international convention on marine biodiversity beyond national territory, as the need for an international approach to tackling pollution and the growing threat to marine biodiversity was recognised at the un conference in rio de janeiro in 1992 and is still relevant today.
addressing the issues of conservation and sustainable use of marine resources requires comprehensive global regulation.
while issues such as marine biodiversity and water pollution have long been a focus of the un general assembly and informal working groups, there is still a need to improve the focus on fisheries concerns.
i am very pleased that the report has focused on the preservation of biodiversity in this area.
we must review the dublin system and improve where difficulties are apparent today: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly aspects of the transport of dangerous goods.
this is not about quick fixes, but about a sustainable approach that will give us a lasting, workable solution!
‒ the quality of legislation and its impact assessment are crucial in legislation, helping to create a secure legal environment and less red tape for individuals.
as a member of the fisheries committee, i advocated financial support and development to protect the environment and to ensure the livelihood of fishermen.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on innovation and diversification of small-scale coastal fishing in fisheries-dependent areas, as coastal fishing is particularly important because it provides a high level of employment and is a socially and environmentally sustainable form of fishing.
it is particularly important that it ensures a high level of employment and is a socially and environmentally sustainable form of fishing.
i voted against this report because i believe that environmental and labour market issues should remain the responsibility of the member states.
she is in mourning because in these cowardly attacks we have lost patricia rizzo, a young italian woman full of energy, fine, intelligent, radiant.
thirdly, i would like to see us, in the area of the terrorism directive, on the subject of stopping dangerous people from travelling - not those who are already wanted, but those who are in a dangerous environment - stopping them from travelling in any direction, informing each other about it and also preventing them from doing so.
multilateral diplomacy led to cop21 and to the sustainable development goals.
those of you who listened carefully just now have also seen how our security environment has changed.
keyword causes of flight, war, poverty, climate change or causes of terrorism.
the countries of the region lack a central development policy perspective, since they offer products of interest to the eu in the form of oil, gas and other raw materials, but have not yet been able to develop their own democratic, social and economically sustainable perspective.
tensions are something natural, and the european phenomenon was the ability to transform them into positive energy.
it must be clear, it must be feasible and it must be sustainable, even in times of crisis.
(beifall) therefore we must put all our energy against a case of commercial practice.
‒ i abstained today in the final vote on the report on the subject 'the eu in a changing global environment' and 'a more connected, conflict-ridden and complex world'.
the solution to this security problem and the fight against the threat can only be achieved collectively by the union's greater networking in the common, sustainable foreign and security policy.
‒ i voted against the european parliament resolution of 13 april 2016 on 'the eu in a changing global environment - a more connected, conflicted and complex world'.
this compromise, which we have found in an intense democratic debate in a legislative process throughout recent years, is a huge step forward towards creating a single legal environment for the digital world of tomorrow, and this is our chance as europeans to have a significant effect on it.
we may need best practices or guidelines in specific sectors such as energy and health, which make increasing use of personal data and need to develop privacy—friendly solutions.
the right to information self-determination is given a de facto and equally sustainable basis in all member states by explicit information obligations towards citizens, genuine rights of objection, effective control and supervision.
we are replacing 28 different legal frameworks on data protection with one single legal framework and building a gold standard for the protection of the fundamental right to data protection and privacy, which we also want to defend globally in the global environment of the global market which we are creating.
the recent high-level political dialogue and high-level energy dialogue have proved to be successful formats to move forward with our joint agenda with turkey.
a genuine political dialogue in the framework of the kurdish settlement process is the only way to achieve a peaceful and sustainable solution.
whether it is the refugee issue, energy cooperation, cultural exchange, people-to-people contacts, tourism, trade, there are infinitely many areas in which we can achieve success with this great, important neighbour, a neighbour who deserves to be treated with respect.
household costs are more than just energy.
it is good that we are talking about using eu funds for energy renovation of social housing and its new construction.
the use of the european structural and investment funds (esif) needs to be made more efficient and targeted in order to effectively tackle energy poverty.
the energy transition has made electricity unaffordable, and vat rates are going up.
together they condemned the horrific abuses committed by boko haram and emphasised the importance of a comprehensive region-wide approach with concrete actions in the political, socio-economic, security, environmental and humanitarian fields.
‒ the meszerics report identifies rising living costs in the eu, particularly in energy prices, and derives from this a claim by the eu to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy by expanding social transfers and other measures.
the analysis is questionable due to the current very low oil price and the deflationary economic environment.
the solutions proposed in the report call for more regulation, in particular through national minimum wage and income regulations or the right to energy supply in winter.
the report is intended to build a bridge between social and energy policy.
the report sees a large, untapped potential to significantly reduce spending by poor households, for example by targeting existing renewable energy and energy efficiency projects to low-energy households.
‒ the meszerics report identifies rising living costs in the eu, particularly in energy prices, and derives from this a claim by the eu to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy by expanding social transfers and other measures.
the analysis is questionable due to the current very low oil price and the deflationary economic environment.
the solutions proposed in the report call for more regulation, in particular through national minimum wage and income regulations or the right to energy supply in winter.
‒ the meszerics report identifies rising living costs in the eu, particularly in energy prices, and derives from this a claim by the eu to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy by expanding social transfers and other measures.
the analysis is questionable due to the current very low oil price and the deflationary economic environment.
the solutions proposed in the report call for more regulation, in particular through national minimum wage and income regulations or the right to energy supply in winter.
it is really superfluous for the commission to be thinking of things like a post-2030 sustainable development agenda.
to achieve this, the european commission needs to address the following questions in depth and find sustainable answers: firstly, there is the question of what is called the obligation of liability.
they also contribute to increasing the sustainability of road transport by reducing fuel consumption, improving traffic flow and reducing congestion.
the impact on emissions, on our climate change.
the decision on the use of nuclear energy is a matter for the member states in the european union.
i would also like to ask you what is happening with renewable energy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
if we are to have a sustainable deal with turkey, we also need to do our share in making sure that syrians who flee from war and persecution have a safe harbour also in the european union and in member states.
this is good for passengers, businesses and the environment.
we are therefore making the environmentally friendly railways politically and artificially expensive and the climate-damaging roads cheap.
only then will the railway have a perspective, and we can stop climate change.
the transport sector is the only sector where emissions have increased by more than 22% since 1990. in industry, they have been reduced by 38%.
we can ensure mobility and protect the climate.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
the european court of auditors does a valuable job of warning against inefficiency and waste of taxation.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
i still see too many points of waste in this house, for example the continued maintenance of the second place of work in brussels.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a step in the right direction, and it is a step in the right direction.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a step in the right direction, and it is a step in the right direction.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a step in the right direction, and it is a step in the right direction.
the measures proposed are a waste of taxpayers' money.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
the measures proposed are a waste of taxpayers' money.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
the measures proposed are a waste of taxpayers' money.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
the measures proposed are a waste of taxpayers' money.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
the measures proposed are a waste of taxpayers' money.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
the measures proposed are a waste of taxpayers' money.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
the measures proposed are a waste of taxpayers' money.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
eu agencies are not only a waste of taxpayers' money in the vast majority of cases, but also a sign of overstepping the eu's powers and a breach of the principle of subsidiarity.
‒ i am against the report discharge 2014: agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) because i consider this agency to be one of the outgrowths of agencyitis.
‒ the union has set itself ambitious targets in the field of renewable energy.
the agency is making an important contribution to the sustainable development of this market.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
this also included the discharge to the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer).
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
this also included the discharge to the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer).
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
this also included the discharge to the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer).
‒ i rejected the european parliament's report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2014. i am opposed to eu agencies on principle.
eu agencies are not only a waste of taxpayers' money in the vast majority of cases, but also an overstepping of eu competences and a breach of the subsidiarity principle.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
eu agencies are not only a waste of taxpayers' money in the vast majority of cases, but also an overstepping of eu competences and a breach of the subsidiarity principle.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
eu agencies are not only a waste of taxpayers' money in the vast majority of cases, but also an overstepping of eu competences and a breach of the subsidiarity principle.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
eu agencies are not only a waste of taxpayers' money in the vast majority of cases, but also an overstepping of eu competences and a breach of the subsidiarity principle.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
eu agencies are not only a waste of taxpayers' money in the vast majority of cases, but also an overstepping of eu competences and a breach of the subsidiarity principle.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
eu agencies are not only a waste of taxpayers' money in the vast majority of cases, but also an overstepping of eu competences and a breach of the subsidiarity principle.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
eu agencies are not only a waste of taxpayers' money in the vast majority of cases, but also an overstepping of eu competences and a breach of the subsidiarity principle.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
eu agencies are not only a waste of taxpayers' money in the vast majority of cases, but also an overstepping of eu competences and a breach of the subsidiarity principle.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
in the case of the european union, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the eu's environmental policy is not distorted.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
eu agencies are not only a waste of taxpayers' money in the vast majority of cases, but also an overstepping of eu competences and a breach of the subsidiarity principle.
‒ i voted against the discharge report 2014: european environment agency (eea).
‒ protecting the environment and conserving natural resources is of the utmost importance to all of us.
the european environment agency is making an important contribution to this.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
this also included the discharge to the european environment agency (eea).
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
this also included the discharge to the european environment agency (eea).
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
this also included the discharge to the european environment agency (eea).
i rejected the european parliament's report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2014. i am opposed to eu agencies on principle.
eu agencies are not only a waste of taxpayers' money in the vast majority of cases, but also an overstepping of eu competences and a breach of the subsidiarity principle.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
eu agencies are not only a waste of taxpayers' money in the vast majority of cases, but also an overstepping of eu competences and a breach of the subsidiarity principle.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
eu agencies are not only a waste of taxpayers' money in the vast majority of cases, but also an overstepping of eu competences and a breach of the subsidiarity principle.
i think that the institute as a whole is completely unnecessary at european level under the current priorities and that the 7.4 million euros allocated to it in 2014 alone is a waste of taxpayers' money.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
eu agencies are not only a waste of taxpayers' money in the vast majority of cases, but also an overstepping of eu competences and a breach of the subsidiarity principle.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
eu agencies are not only a waste of taxpayers' money in the vast majority of cases, but also an overstepping of eu competences and a breach of the subsidiarity principle.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
eu agencies are not only a waste of taxpayers' money in the vast majority of cases, but also an overstepping of eu competences and a breach of the subsidiarity principle.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
eu agencies are not only a waste of taxpayers' money in the vast majority of cases, but also an overstepping of eu competences and a breach of the subsidiarity principle.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
eu agencies are not only a waste of taxpayers' money in the vast majority of cases, but also an overstepping of eu competences and a breach of the subsidiarity principle.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
eu agencies are not only a waste of taxpayers' money in the vast majority of cases, but also an overstepping of eu competences and a breach of the subsidiarity principle.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
eu agencies are not only a waste of taxpayers' money in the vast majority of cases, but also an overstepping of eu competences and a breach of the subsidiarity principle.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
eu agencies are not only a waste of taxpayers' money in the vast majority of cases, but also an overstepping of eu competences and a breach of the subsidiarity principle.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
eu agencies are not only a waste of taxpayers' money in the vast majority of cases, but also an overstepping of eu competences and a breach of the subsidiarity principle.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
eu agencies are not only a waste of taxpayers' money in the vast majority of cases, but also an overstepping of eu competences and a breach of the subsidiarity principle.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
eu agencies are not only a waste of taxpayers' money in the vast majority of cases, but also an overstepping of eu competences and a breach of the subsidiarity principle.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
eu agencies are not only a waste of taxpayers' money in the vast majority of cases, but also an overstepping of eu competences and a breach of the subsidiarity principle.
‒ nuclear energy is a technology that must meet high safety standards.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
eu agencies are not only a waste of taxpayers' money in the vast majority of cases, but also an overstepping of eu competences and a breach of the subsidiarity principle.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
eu agencies are not only a waste of taxpayers' money in the vast majority of cases, but also an overstepping of eu competences and a breach of the subsidiarity principle.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
eu agencies are not only a waste of taxpayers' money in the vast majority of cases, but also an overstepping of eu competences and a breach of the subsidiarity principle.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
eu agencies are not only a waste of taxpayers' money in the vast majority of cases, but also an overstepping of eu competences and a breach of the subsidiarity principle.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
eu agencies are not only a waste of taxpayers' money in the vast majority of cases, but also an overstepping of eu competences and a breach of the subsidiarity principle.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
joint ventures are not only a waste of taxpayers' money in the vast majority of cases, but also go beyond the eu's powers and violate the principle of subsidiarity.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
joint ventures are not only a waste of taxpayers' money in the vast majority of cases, but also go beyond the eu's powers and violate the principle of subsidiarity.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
joint ventures are not only a waste of taxpayers' money in the vast majority of cases, but also go beyond the eu's powers and violate the principle of subsidiarity.
joint ventures are not only a waste of taxpayers' money in the vast majority of cases, but also go beyond the eu's powers and violate the principle of subsidiarity.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
joint ventures are not only a waste of taxpayers' money in the vast majority of cases, but also go beyond the eu's powers and violate the principle of subsidiarity.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
joint ventures are not only a waste of taxpayers' money in the vast majority of cases, but also go beyond the eu's powers and violate the principle of subsidiarity.
‒ i rejected the european parliament's report on the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2014. i am opposed to eu agencies on principle.
joint ventures are not only a waste of taxpayers' money in the vast majority of cases, but also go beyond the eu's powers and violate the principle of subsidiarity.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
alfa is committed to a more efficient eu budget and strongly opposes the waste of taxpayers' money, which is a major problem at national as well as eu level.
joint ventures are not only a waste of taxpayers' money in the vast majority of cases, but also go beyond the eu's powers and violate the principle of subsidiarity.
the findings of an environmental ngo study are part of a long, sad series of abuses in food labelling.
we have a globally recognised certification system with high standards for sustainable fishery products.
the commission is not fisheries partnership agreements with third countries are an effective way of promoting the main principles and values of the reformed cfp beyond europe and thus contributing to the global commitment to sustainable management of the seas.
for this to work, the agreements must set out and implement clear conditions on sustainability, fairness, coherence and transparency.
the two bilateral agreements with mauritania and liberia represent two important steps towards the sustainable development of fisheries outside the eu.
this is the heart of my understanding of sustainable fishing with third countries.
even without the current climate of overcapacity, any such move would be untenable.
i therefore call on the commission to negotiate with china not just investment protection but a fair trade agreement and against price, social and environmental dumping, in the interests of jobs here and there.
we want and we need to continue to have a modern, innovative, sustainable and competitive european industry.
but it will not do any good unless we simultaneously focus economically on creating good, sustainable work that people can live off.
‒ i voted in favour of a partnership agreement on sustainable fisheries between the eu and liberia.
fisheries know no borders it is all the more important to coordinate and clarify the protection of marine biodiversity and the implementation of sustainable fisheries beyond the eu's borders.
this is the only way to maintain sustainable fisheries promotion in line with eu standards.
‒ i voted in favour of the eu-liberia sustainable fisheries partnership agreement, as the agreement not only takes into account guidelines for sustainable fisheries, but also can help liberia in the long term by providing financial support to the local economy.
i abstained from voting on the european parliament recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion on behalf of the european union of the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of liberia and the implementation protocol thereto.
to enforce sustainable fisheries policies across borders and protect marine biodiversity, clear rules and agreements are needed.
in return, sustainable use of stocks and environmental protection in the coastal region will be ensured and promoted.
it also ensures the sustainable management of fish stocks off mauritania.
the main focus is on creating sustainable jobs and developing local infrastructure.
they will make the system more solid, more sustainable and more unified.
i would simply say that the sustainability of greece's debt is a fundamental element of the agreement reached last summer and as such i am glad that we have, for the first time, had an open and constructive debate on this issue in the eurogroup.
yes, ladies and gentlemen, the citizens' desire to have social security, to have social security - the catchword is pension - guaranteed in a sustainable, long-term, permanent way.
and it's even the case that prime minister tsipras is now coming out in greece and saying, there is no alternative to pension reform, we have to reform pensions structurally so that they remain sustainable in times of demographic change.
the commissioner then asked, of course, what are the next steps and what is the state of play with regard to the sustainability assessment.
in 2010, i and 76 colleagues brought a proposal here in the context of the mercosur negotiations, which were then reopened, to conclude trade agreements only if our standards of consumer protection, animal and environmental protection are met with minimum social standards.
the sustainable development agenda is universal - that's what they said.
the next step would be to have a clear plan of exactly what europe will do when and by what means, so that all the sustainability goals can be achieved on time, including the climate goal.
because it is only logical that the strategies of cop 21 are intertwined with the sustainable development goals, intertwined in a meaningful way.
with the 2030 agenda for sustainable development, the international community has set the tone for a global rethink.
in short, we need this comprehensive sustainability strategy in the eu.
i hope that the report by the commission's sustainability officer will make very concrete proposals in a few weeks' time.
because it's a herculean task to bring these three sustainability goals together.
we have started to work with this comprehensive approach on the different elements of our implementation work: from the issue of climate change to the sustainable development part, but also migration.
on the external side: we are working on how best to adapt our external action and our development policy to fulfil the agenda, contributing also to the commitments we have undertaken on climate change at cop 21 in paris and aspects of our eu global strategy that we debated in this hemicycle just last night.
on our mutual commitments: for instance, while we provide financial support to schools for attendance for refugee children in lebanon, we also need the local authorities to create a protective environment around the children, so the parents can feel confident about sending their children to school.
they share their education system, they share their scarce resources like water, energy and housing.
this is not sustainable.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the european union.
i think you too would be well advised to study in detail the commission's proposals, both the proposals on how to enter the european union by safe and legal migration routes, but also, on the other hand, to deal concretely with the proposals on what it means to pursue a fair and sustainable common asylum policy, from the introduction of a viable fair system for determining the member states responsible for examining asylum applications to the strengthening of the eurodac system.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
this is detrimental to inclusive and sustainable economic growth.
and thirdly, what specific measures and strategies will it propose in its next work programme to promote inclusive and sustainable economic growth by reducing inequalities and improving upward social convergence?
we need a europe of social justice, of good work, of self-sufficiency and poverty-free living, of good education for all, of more public services and of an economy that is both economically and ecologically sustainable.
to achieve sustainable economic growth, we need a change of course.
turning to the oral question, on the first point inviting the commission to present the findings of these reports to parliament, i would like to remind you that the commission has presented the reports in question to parliament twice: to the committee on agriculture and rural development on 16 july 2015, and to the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on 15 september 2015. as regards the second point, the commission report on meat used as an ingredient concludes that mandatory origin labelling does not appear in this case to be the most appropriate way forward at european union level, taking into account first, limited consumer willingness to pay for such information, the administrative burden linked to the setting up of additional traceability systems and more generally, the impact that this may have, including on european union competitiveness and trade.
traceability is also an important issue in terms of human health and environmental protection, which is why i support the motion.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on 'further review and update of the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals'.
sustainability is an important objective of the eu and all member states.
but today, we still lack the tools and the courage to really tackle these goals and to develop our economy towards a sustainable system without destructive growth pressures.
i am not convinced by the approach to sustainability, let alone the idea that the eu should follow the lisbon strategy or agenda 2020 with a europe 2020 strategy the new approach for the period after 2020 .
in order to thrive, all platforms – including european ones – need a legal environment that gives them certainty.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the risks arising from the use of radioactive substances.
the big promise was that we would make the world economy climate-friendly and at the same time create economic recovery.
i see instead in the european semester that the proposals for an ecological financial policy have been reduced rather than increased.
furthermore, the council supports the efforts of the commission in working with the united states on improving some aspects of the privacy shield and hence ensure a legally and politically sustainable framework.
first of all, i would like to thank my colleague, theresa griffin, for the really good work she has done, because energy poverty is a very serious issue, also in the eu.
however, in less than one third of eu member states, energy poverty is officially recognised or even mentioned in legislation, and thus cannot be adequately tackled.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not left behind.
only in this way can we bring people into the energy transition and together shape the way towards a sustainable, efficient and citizen-friendly energy union.
but producers must take responsibility as well for the continuing increase in production which i have just outlined and which, given current market conditions, is simply not sustainable.
i think we could put back a few billion kilograms of milk here and replace other fats with butter fats, which would also be in the interests of environmental policy.
it is the same concerns that are preventing effective action to reduce the quantity of waste.
it is the best available instrument to improve the investment climate, business environment and productivity of the eu, the whole eu economy.
i think we have managed to add a lot of important elements to this report, particularly so that we are not just talking about deepening the single market but also strengthening social and ecological factors and preserving limits on the free market in the public interest where necessary.
i am therefore pleased that we have been able to add some very important elements to mrs comi's report, particularly in the areas of worker protection, social protection, consumer protection and environmental protection.
i reject this fund on principle as a waste of taxpayers' money.
i reject this fund on principle as a waste of taxpayers' money.
‒ as a member of the envi committee on the environment, the issue of a functioning energy market is of great importance to me.
european energy policy is closely linked to environmental policy.
in these key areas, eu directives need to be properly implemented in order to reduce co2 emissions and meet the 20% target by 2020. in addition, red tape must be cut to make it easier for consumers to save energy.
‒ the initiative report on improved opportunities for energy consumers (griffin report) is not legally binding in itself, but can be seen as a political signal.
the only things mentioned were fair access to energy and full access for consumers to all the information they need to meet their energy needs.
however, this cannot be achieved as there is no consensus at eu level on key concepts such as 'energy demand' and 'low income'.
‒ the initiative report on improved opportunities for energy consumers (griffin report) is not legally binding in itself, but can be seen as a political signal.
the only things mentioned were fair access to energy and full access for consumers to all the information they need to meet their energy needs.
however, this cannot be achieved as there is no consensus at eu level on key concepts such as 'energy demand' and 'low income'.
‒ the initiative report on improved opportunities for energy consumers (griffin report) is not legally binding in itself, but can be seen as a political signal.
the only things mentioned were fair access to energy and full access for consumers to all the information they need to meet their energy needs.
however, this cannot be achieved as there is no consensus at eu level on key concepts such as 'energy demand' and 'low income'.
the report finds a balance between consumer protection and the final consumer's choice of energy and consumption and entrepreneurial freedom.
‒ the initiative report on improved opportunities for energy consumers (griffin report) is not legally binding in itself, but can be seen as a political signal.
the only things mentioned were fair access to energy and full access for consumers to all the information they need to meet their energy needs.
however, this cannot be achieved as there is no consensus at eu level on key concepts such as 'energy demand' and 'low income'.
‒ the initiative report on improved opportunities for energy consumers (griffin report) is not legally binding in itself, but can be seen as a political signal.
the only things mentioned were fair access to energy and full access for consumers to all the information they need to meet their energy needs.
however, this cannot be achieved as there is no consensus at eu level on key concepts such as 'energy demand' and 'low income'.
i rejected the european parliament's report on improved opportunities for energy consumers.
the report calls for an economy based exclusively on renewable energy.
the report also calls for the eu's climate targets to meet the 1.5°c target set by the paris agreement.
climate change has been going on for as long as the earth has existed.
climate change policy is based on the inadequate computer models of the ipcc (the intergovernmental panel on climate change).
carbon dioxide (co2) is not a pollutant but an essential component of all life.
it stresses the need to remove the remaining barriers to the single market in order to achieve tangible and rapid results in terms of competitiveness, sustainable growth, research, innovation, job creation, consumer choice and new business models.
first, chancellor merkel is celebrated as the world's climate change champion, and then she refuses to use this climate-friendly technology.
in addition, the german energy transition has led to an explosion in german electricity prices.
mr henkel, i wanted to ask you: do you know what percentage of the world's energy is now supplied by nuclear power?
can you really say that it's helping to protect the climate?
the main issue is the political challenge of balancing legitimate interests on the basis of agreed international norms, namely the espoo convention and the kiev additional protocol on binding strategic environmental assessment, everywhere.
as has already been said, belarus does not have the financial resources to bear the full consequences of nuclear power in terms of safety, in terms of safety-related upgrades, which will certainly be necessary, and in terms of nuclear waste.
the limitations of this approach and in particular the environmental risks associated with it are well known.
the new alliance calls on african countries to implement legislative reforms to create a business-friendly environment for private investment in africa's agriculture.
firstly, the type of farming and the methods of cultivation: both the 2030 agenda for sustainable development and the paris agreement on climate change point to the need to develop an agricultural model that is much more resilient and can create sustainable food systems.
the eu and the member states should therefore carefully consider whether their participation in this initiative is even worthwhile or whether we should instead invest together in sustainable agricultural models, as agreed in the sustainable development goals.
if european agriculture is to continue to excel in technology, innovation and sustainability in a global comparison, we need to make it fit for the future.
privileged areas as well as disadvantaged areas and large and small farms, in order to guarantee the sustainable development of the whole rural area.
so i think it's good that there's a controversial discussion in the ecological farming research.
it is not a question of eliminating competition for locations altogether, nor is it a question of forcing tax harmonization, but of developing sustainable european solutions, hopefully also global ones, and of launching legislative initiatives.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
‒ i have agreed to the recommendation on the adoption of uniform technical prescriptions for wheeled vehicles, equipment and parts which can be fitted and/or used in wheeled vehicles, as this could help to improve safety and environmental protection.
the agreement on the harmonization of motor vehicle regulations, as adopted by the united nations economic commission for europe, is designed not only to facilitate trade in motor vehicles but also to ensure a high level of safety and environmental protection.
these contribute significantly to the sustainable improvement of food production and the diversification of production.
‒ i was very pleased to vote for the report by mrs mcintyre on technically innovative solutions for sustainable agriculture in the eu, as it provides very important impetus for progress in the agricultural sector.
the eu should become a world leader in agricultural technology, innovation and sustainability.
with the world's ever-increasing demand for food, whether conventional or organic, new technical innovations are constantly needed as an integral part of a strategy to achieve sustainable and even more productive agriculture.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on technologically innovative solutions for sustainable agriculture in the eu.
innovative technology in all areas of agriculture will be promoted much more in the future to facilitate and revolutionize sustainable agriculture.
the report stresses the importance of doing more to promote sustainable agriculture and encouraging innovation in this direction.
we must do the same we have done on the route through the aegean also in the southern mediterranean to find solutions, sustainable solutions.
africa, for demographic reasons, for economic reasons, for inequalities, for climate change reasons, is going to continue to be a major continent when it comes to movement of people.
it is about working together to tackle the causes of displacement, investing in democracy, the environment, jobs, so that people no longer have to go on the move.
only long-term, sustainable cooperation can help us to make up for what we have missed over the decades.
this could also be an example for other asean countries to try to ratify and promote core conventions in the international arena on human rights and labour rights, for a better environment and good governance, like the philippines.
since december 2014, gsp+ is granting better access to the european union market for the philippines, based on its commitment – and i think that is important – to implement core international conventions on human and labour rights, sustainable development and good governance.
there are a lot of development issues, including on the area of sustainable development goals.
the climate of impunity regarding the cia programme has enabled the continuation of fundamental rights violations as further revealed by the mass surveillance programmes of the us national security agency and secret services of various eu member states.
for example, earth observation from space can help us monitor climate change and respond more quickly and effectively to natural disasters.
mr katainen, please answer the question: how many additional, new and sustainable jobs have been created by the efsi so far?
i will be watching very closely what your department is doing to improve the additionality and sustainability of the projects.
the problems of migration, terrorism, climate change, economic crises and others go beyond our borders.
erecting borders – no matter whether they are territorial, economic or legal – is a tempting, yet temporary and not sustainable solution.
i want us to all start new engines of integration – the enlargement process, a more efficient and coordinated common european foreign, defence and security policy, the european energy union, the single digital market, the eu capital markets union and others.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the country should also be supported in disaster preparedness, emergency and reconstruction assistance and the implementation of effective climate change policies.
our assistance programme can support tunisia in this difficult period and help it to implement further reforms, improve the budgetary situation and create an investment-friendly investment climate.
‒ the sustainable, peaceful and democratic development of north africa is a key concern for the eu as a whole.
in today’s security environment, strength equals information and knowledge.
we are amazed that it is possible in the 21st century in europe to create a climate of fear and intimidation in such a way.
this is a tragedy for a country that has long been a climate of fear.
it is a great disgrace that the kurdish conflict is now out again in the open and it is also a huge pity, because erdoğan himself was on the best way to find a sustainable solution, and now we are back to square one.
on the other hand, this action plan also included a commitment to accelerate the accession negotiations, to give them new energy and to push forward with visa liberalization.
this includes the interests and conditions of the workers as well as the impact on the environment.
energy and large-scale industry are strategic economic sectors for which economic diplomacy is worthwhile.
the european rail industry is strong with a global market share of 46%, the sector employs 400 000 people across europe and is looking to grow by an average of 2.8% by 2019. a strong and innovative railway industry is not only in the interests of european workers and businesses cop21 calls for and requires an ambitious climate policy.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the environmental performance of the european union.
it must not become steel industry 2.0. the resolution looks specifically at improving the market environment for the railway industry to enable industrial growth and new jobs.
the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the implementation of the european union's action plan for the environment.
our emergency resolution today was triggered by the violent suppression of peaceful protests related to a massive environmental disaster.
the vietnamese government has announced that it will have an independent inquiry into the causes of this environmental disaster, and that is a good thing.
it took some energy to smooth the waves between the council and us as parliament.
i see this baltic sea plan as a blueprint for sustainable fisheries management.
sustainable in the sense of ecological, economic and social.
this ensures ecological sustainability.
in the long term, an ecological approach is also a guarantee of economic and social sustainability.
it will make it possible to manage fish stocks more balanced and sustainable in line with the common fisheries policy.
the next item is the joint debate on the report by ms paloma lópez bermejo, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the progress report on 'renewable energy sources' (2016/2041 (ini)) (a8-0196/2016) and the report by mr markus pieper, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the report on the implementation of the energy efficiency directive (2012/27/eu) (2015/2232 (ini)) (a8-0199/2016).
improving energy efficiency is a win-win situation.
for the environment, more energy efficiency means less pollutant and co2 emissions with the same energy input, and for consumers, more energy efficiency means less costs, and for energy security, more energy efficiency means more security of supply.
in this sense, the energy efficiency directive is an investment in europe's future if it is tackled properly.
we will achieve 20% energy savings by 2020, not only because of european regulations, which are not properly implemented everywhere, but also because of the self-interest of companies and consumers in reducing energy consumption.
the european environmental balance as a whole is a success story.
we are the world champions in reducing carbon emissions, in expanding renewable energy and in saving energy.
secondly, energy-intensive industries are struggling to survive in europe.
thirdly, the bureaucracy is running out, eco-design labelling, pollution laws, ets, emission reduction, the building directive and so on.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the community's energy policy.
the result is a lot of red tape, but also influence on the price of allowances in the emissions trading.
i have taken the example of the energy efficiency directive and i am grateful that many points have remained in the report, namely that we need to move more towards innovation for efficiency and not just rely on the compulsion to save, that the flexibility of the directive remains so that member states have incentives for new measures.
savings commitments on energy consumption.
it is not about efficiency, it is about a ban on energy consumption.
greenhouse gas emissions have been reduced by more than 25% since 1990, while european gdp has increased by almost 50%.
if we go astray, we can still make up for it with legislation, but first we want to give people and businesses a boost of confidence: the eu is the world champion in the environment, and we all want to help build on that position!
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
we all want more energy efficiency.
if a 40% energy ban is passed, everyone will notice it not only by rising rents, because the housing for the socially vulnerable is then really an energy luxury.
no, please also explain to me how we are going to achieve the transition to electric mobility: we will need a gigantic increase in electricity, and this electricity will soon come mainly from renewable energy sources.
we are now saying: save energy, even for energy that does not affect the climate.
but i have to say it very clearly: those who are for a 40 percent energy ban are against innovation, against growth, and they are playing into the hands of the critics of globalization.
let us invest in energy efficiency, with fun in the project and not by compulsion!
i voted against this report because unfortunately the compromise reached with the aim of achieving energy savings of 30-40% was not achieved.
the 40% energy savings that the greens and socialists are calling for are damaging growth and innovation in europe.
a sustainable energy policy should focus on economic and secure energy production, combining security of supply and climate protection.
conventional energy sources remain an important element in ensuring security of supply.
energy saving, energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy sources should be the pillars of a sustainable energy policy.
our aim must be to ensure a reliable, environmentally friendly and competitive energy supply throughout the european union.
only sustainable energy can secure jobs and meet the challenges of our time.
the development of wind energy, in particular offshore wind, plays a central role in this process.
the development of renewable energy also requires the development of the distribution and transmission network and the improvement of the framework conditions for energy storage.
sustainability in fisheries is an important issue for which we need strong answers.
i am deeply concerned about the biodiversity of our oceans.
‒ i voted for the report because i support a balanced and sustainable management of our oceans.
biodiversity is the foundation of this sector, which is predominantly small and medium-sized.
‒ the multiannual plan for cod, herring and sprat stocks in the baltic sea is an essential instrument for sustainable management and the recovery of fish stocks.
the main objective of this multiannual management plan is to ensure sustainable fishing.
‒ i did not vote against the progress report on renewable energy sources presented because i am against renewable energy.
i am in favour of further ambitious expansion of renewable energies - they must be the basis of a sustainable energy supply.
‒ i support the development of renewable energy.
‒ this report is an interim review of the implementation of the 2009 renewable energy directive.
it contains some good elements, such as the call for closer cooperation across the eu and for renewable energy to be promoted cost-effectively and competitively.
the rapporteur proposes, for example, fiscal measures to promote renewable energy or stronger monitoring and control by the european commission.
the report also raises the renewable energy target decided by the council from 27% to 30%.
‒ this report is an interim review of the implementation of the 2009 renewable energy directive.
it contains some good elements, such as the call for closer cooperation across the eu and for renewable energy to be promoted cost-effectively and competitively.
the rapporteur proposes, for example, fiscal measures to promote renewable energy or stronger monitoring and control by the european commission.
the report also raises the renewable energy target decided by the council from 27% to 30%.
‒ this report is an interim review of the implementation of the 2009 renewable energy directive.
it contains some good elements, such as the call for closer cooperation across the eu and for renewable energy to be promoted cost-effectively and competitively.
the rapporteur proposes, for example, fiscal measures to promote renewable energy or stronger monitoring and control by the european commission.
the report also raises the renewable energy target decided by the council from 27% to 30%.
‒ i voted for the progress report renewable energy sources.
some member states are still far from meeting their 2020 renewable energy targets.
‒ this report is an interim review of the implementation of the 2009 renewable energy directive.
it contains some good elements, such as the call for closer cooperation across the eu and for renewable energy to be promoted cost-effectively and competitively.
the rapporteur proposes, for example, fiscal measures to promote renewable energy or stronger monitoring and control by the european commission.
the report also raises the renewable energy target decided by the council from 27% to 30%.
‒ this report is an interim review of the implementation of the 2009 renewable energy directive.
it contains some good elements, such as the call for closer cooperation across the eu and for renewable energy to be promoted cost-effectively and competitively.
the rapporteur proposes, for example, fiscal measures to promote renewable energy or stronger monitoring and control by the european commission.
the report also raises the renewable energy target decided by the council from 27% to 30%.
‒ i voted against the report on the implementation of the energy efficiency directive.
the european framework is too rigid, it does not encourage energy efficiency measures it hinders them.
‒ by setting binding and unrealistic targets of up to 40% energy savings by 2030, the left-wing parties are blocking the common eu goal of using energy more efficiently.
energy bans will have a negative impact on the objectives of greater energy efficiency.
instead of banning energy consumption, we should instead focus on positive incentives through tax relief.
this is the only way to achieve realistic energy savings.
‒ i voted against the report on the implementation of the energy efficiency directive because we were unfortunately unable to push through important points for implementation in the epp.
the eu is already well on its way to achieving its efficiency target, and energy efficiency will help us to achieve our climate targets.
however, there is still much to be done, such as improving our cooperation on renewable energy sources and setting clear targets.
together we can – and will – address our common challenge to generate growth, to increase prosperity, and to ensure a safe and secure environment for our citizens.
we have launched a project on the energy union.
do you really want - because everyone says everything has to change without ever saying what has to change - that we stop this continental effort to cut our dependence on russia and secure europe's energy supply?
we must work for it: consistently, with renewed energy and with a revival of continental ambitions.
his commitment to the protection of the environment, particularly in the arctic and antarctic, confirms his great vision.
i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for her cooperation on behalf of my colleague, mr jan huitema, who is unfortunately not here today - and i am speaking on his behalf - and on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
it has been said before, my predecessor has said before, that this may not be the sexiest topic, but it is very important, when you talk about reducing emissions, to also take care of the areas that are not so focused.
we all talk about road, we all talk about ships, we all talk about airplanes, where we can avoid emissions, but of course that's the same for tractors, for snowmobiles, for inland waterways, for anything that has an engine, and that's what this case is about: improving the environment, not just with a nox, but also with co2 and with other emissions that, if there's too much of it, can make us sick.
it is therefore good that we have actually achieved a level playing field with the standards of the united states, because in this way we have both an improvement in the environment and a competition where we can keep up, where we can stand and not have to accept a lower position.
the commission has also been involved in the implementation of the european union's environmental policy.
the commission has been able to take a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european network of national experts in the field of waste management.
it would have been desirable to have paid more attention to the approximately 400 000 deaths in europe each year which are directly linked to air pollution.
what is the quality of the offers and the sustainability of the results?
one of the underpinning principles of the european union is to empower consumers and citizens and allow them to drive the clean energy transition that europe needs.
it was in that spirit that, in july 2015, the commission made a proposal to update the legal framework for the energy-efficiency labelling of products, and since its introduction 20 years ago, energy labelling has ensured that consumers are able to make more informed choices that will help them to save energy and money.
more than 85% of us actually check the energy label before buying a new fridge or a new washing machine.
per year, energy-labelling and eco-design policies taken together represent a savings potential for consumers of up to eur 465 million and can bring around eur 55 billion in extra revenue for business, which goes to show that this is as much about energy security as it is about sustainability or competitiveness.
today’s energy labelling needs updating: many models are in the highest classes and thereby no longer provide differentiation for consumers.
following extensive consultation, and responding to consumer requests, the commission therefore proposed returning to the original a-to-g energy label scale and periodically rescaling it.
today, consumers want to know about the energy efficiency of appliances as much as they want to know about the calories in food, and we need to make it as simple as that.
they are the ones who drive the change in the way we consume energy and we must give them the tools to do so.
energy efficiency is a key building block of the energy union, because by further increasing the efficient use of energy we can conserve and save resources.
i think there is also a great deal of potential here to help us achieve our common climate objectives.
the most efficient use of energy also strengthens our independence from third countries and, above all, protects the pockets of everyone, consumers and businesses alike.
the energy label is a success.
the designation of energy efficiency classes now also enables consumers to compare products and, above all, to make an informed purchase decision.
this has contributed significantly to the continuous development of the products covered by the energy label and their efficiency is now much higher than in the past.
a good energy efficiency class is a key selling point and it is therefore in the interests of industry to use this as a competitive advantage.
the success has led to many electrical appliances being in the best energy efficiency class today, and for some products a+ is actually the worst energy efficiency class.
however, it has not yet fully met this requirement, even though it is now becoming commonplace for trade agreements to include sustainability chapters with workers' rights.
however, many of the sustainability chapters are insufficiently worded: there is often a lack of effective dispute resolution mechanisms.
the report by my colleague, mrs forenza, is an own-initiative report which examines the extent to which the commission has taken and is taking into account in its commercial policy practice, past and present, the important and central demands of parliament on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate social responsibility.
we greens think that trade can be an important instrument to help development cooperation, to promote human rights and for better environmental protection.
it is an own-initiative report of the subcommittee on human rights and the committee on foreign affairs, in which we have also incorporated proposals from the committee on women's rights and gender equality, the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
the digital union, the energy union, the capital markets union are projects that have come a long way and will go a long way and therefore we need to accelerate reforms rather than change their content.
but we'll do that again tomorrow at a database for energy efficiency labels.
‒ the new emission limits were necessary because non-road mobile machinery and equipment are responsible for 15% of nox emissions across the eu.
the limits have been tightened to protect our environment and health.
the report shows a balance between protecting the environment and safeguarding the competitiveness of european industry.
the report shows a balance between protecting the environment and safeguarding the competitiveness of european industry.
the report shows a balance between protecting the environment and safeguarding the competitiveness of european industry.
the report shows a balance between protecting the environment and safeguarding the competitiveness of european industry.
the report shows a balance between protecting the environment and safeguarding the competitiveness of european industry.
‒ i abstained from voting on the report on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate social responsibility.
‒ i support the implementation of the parliament's recommendation on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate social responsibility.
trade can be used as a tool to apply european social and environmental standards.
‒ i did not vote in favour of the european parliament resolution on the implementation of the 2010 parliament recommendations on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate social responsibility.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one.
mr lamassoure has pointed out that we need more environmental taxes to be paid into the european budget.
in our view, the multiannual financial framework must above all be able to spend more on the ecological transformation.
the climate in this committee has shown that we are on the same page across party lines when it comes to advancing tax justice in europe.
recently our services published and distributed to the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) and the committee on regional development (regi) members a brochure entitled ‘eu funds working together for jobs and growth’.
so far we have in place three of those platforms: one on energy innovation, a second one on industrial modernisation, and the third one on agri-food.
at this point i would emphasise that the enhanced services to be provided by the agencies will also serve fully other objectives: maritime transport safety, security and environmental protection, as well as fisheries control, which are the respective missions of emsa and efca.
it was this house that first sponsored this idea of european cooperation on coastguard functions in the area of maritime safety and ship pollution prevention, and we are not starting from scratch.
if we want to keep up with the times, our goal is to ensure an affordable supply of sustainable clean energy.
that's why we need an energy union.
but we need more than just an energy union.
we need to bring a whole new energy to the european union.
the commission will therefore propose in september, during the slovak presidency, to strengthen and extend the investment offensive beyond 2018. the citizens of the union expect the union to provide them with solutions for a sustainable economic perspective, but the same is true of the management of migration flows.
i am well placed to know that it is not simple and that it often takes a lot of time and energy to reconcile different national realities, even very often diametrically opposed.
on energy, you will continue the vital work that turns the historic paris agreement into action.
in the next six months we really need to make progress on energy efficiency, renewables and the security of gas supplies.
economic growth is at the heart of the debate: competitiveness, the digital single market, the energy union and the great theme of the security union of our european continent.
i think that people know better today than they did in the 1990s that we in the european union are much better able to face the global challenges together, whether it is the new aggressions, whether it is war, whether it is the risks and unpredictability of the globalised economy, whether it is climate change or 50 million people who are globally displaced.
i believe that during the slovak presidency we will move forward with key proposals in the field of the energy union and the digital single market and continue to use the juncker investment fund to build modern infrastructure and increase energy efficiency.
the slovak presidency stressed that it would act constructively on sustainable migration and asylum policy and create space to find the best solutions.
in its 2016 work programme, the european commission stressed that climate change requires an effective common foreign policy.
what is missing are clear statements on how the eu can integrate climate concerns into its foreign policy fields, for example in security policy, development cooperation, but also in trade policy.
i call on the european commission to take this into account in its work programme for 2017. the european parliament - that is, we - can also make an important contribution to the success of external climate diplomacy.
we need a strategy for european climate diplomacy, which i am strongly supporting and advocating in the afet committee.
‒ i voted in favour of the eu-azerbaijan partnership and cooperation agreement, as the country is a strategic partner in energy supply and is located in a region of importance to europe, where stability needs to be supported.
i also think that the gradation between critical infrastructures such as energy, transport, water and banking and digital service providers is appropriate.
internet services, energy, transport, financial markets, health and public administration) to report certain nis incidents and to take appropriate measures to ensure network and information security.
on the one hand, it is true that it is no longer useful at all if the device only works, it is equally important that the device works and has a relatively low energy consumption, and of course we have already experienced in the last decade that often a hidden energy consumption was also implanted in the cheap devices above all.
‒ the energy label has been providing consumers with guidance on purchasing household appliances such as refrigerators, washing machines or vacuum cleaners for many years.
the revision of the energy efficiency labelling directive was necessary because some of the existing labels were limited by technological progress and there was little room for differentiation.
that is why i support flexible, practical and unbureaucratic solutions for the energy labelling transition.
‒ i did not take part in the european parliament's decision of 6 july 2016 amending the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for energy efficiency labelling and repealing directive 2010/30/eu.
the idea of energy efficiency labelling is an idea born of climate change policy and is a crucial component of the eu's climate and energy policy, which aims to reduce energy demand and limit greenhouse gas emissions.
in view of the scepticism of the afd towards climate and co2 policy, i do not share the motivation for this and reject paternalistic regulations of this kind.
it is not a sign of civilization's progress if politicians want to educate citizens to use less energy.
tax revenues must be spent in a way that is economical and sustainable.
tax revenues must be spent in a way that is economical and sustainable.
tax revenues must be spent in a way that is economical and sustainable.
tax revenues must be spent in a way that is economical and sustainable.
tax revenues must be spent in a way that is economical and sustainable.
‒ i support the motions for resolutions in the commission's work programme for 2017. these include improving the working and living conditions of european citizens, strengthening the economy and fighting unemployment, taking further action on climate change and responding jointly to the challenges of the refugee crisis.
the commission will continue to work on the implementation of the acquis in the field of the environment and the environment protection.
the united nations’ sustainable development goals (sdgs) could be guidelines about what we have to do at home in our cooperation, as well as what we do abroad in other parts of the world.
the united nations is the central global forum for the institutionalised dialogue of states, the international community on common challenges such as the achievement of the sdgs, the achievement of the paris climate goals or the improvement of the world order policy.
no area of eu law can function perfectly without whistle-blowers, whether it is the environment, transport, the internal market or other areas.
we have to look very calmly at the regulatory environment and whether it really serves its purpose.
a number of members have also linked a reservation to a general call for restrictions on the marketing of energy drinks to children and adolescents.
the commission fully recognises the importance of not marketing energy drinks to children and adolescents.
member states may also carry out public health activities to inform citizens about the appropriate use of energy drinks and to discourage certain vulnerable population groups such as children and adolescents from all consumption and misuse or abuse.
i do not think that it is urgently needed, because so far the member states have also dealt with these advertising messages, particularly for energy drinks.
i think it is absurd to allow positive health advertising on products which generally have to carry warnings for certain groups of the population, such as pregnant women, breastfeeding women and children - and this is the case with energy drinks under the food information regulation - and to harmonise this across europe so that each member state has to allow it.
i am also in favour of this: member states are responsible for protecting their children and young people, and we should really consider whether to include products with a high caffeine content, such as energy drinks, in national protection laws, in laws on the protection of young people.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
in this recommendation, we address all relevant issues such as development, climate change, human rights and the rule of law.
i would like to wish you a relaxing summer break, free from the negative effects of climate change, so that we can then begin the renovation of our european home together, because it is long overdue.
the next item is the joint debate on the report by werner langen, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on 'towards the transformation of the energy market' (2015/2322 (ini)) (a8-0214/2016) and the report by adam gierek, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the eu strategy for heating and cooling (2016/2058 (ini)) (a8-0232/2016).
secondly, a european approach to energy security is to be established and thirdly, regional cooperation in energy policy is to be considerably strengthened, particularly in investments in new energy generation facilities.
the question of the future design of capacity mechanisms, the promotion of renewable energies, the debate on price zones and distribution system operators, and the role of the european energy agency acer.
the report sets out the direction for the legislative proposal to be presented by the commission by the end of the year to reorganise the energy market.
the compromise, which has been broadly accepted, is the most important step towards harmonising the european internal energy market.
the second theme is renewable energies, paragraphs 49 and 54. the committee believes that the continued subsidisation of renewable energy is outdated.
they too must respond to market signals in the new energy system.
the report provides for a gradual phase-out of subsidies for mature renewable energies.
operators of renewable energy plants - and we know the intensive use of wind energy in the nordic countries, including germany - must bear the consequent balance sheet responsibility.
priority access to the grid is to remain in place but will be reviewed once the restructured energy market is implemented.
thirdly, the abolition of regulated prices and the debate on price zones, paragraph 22. for the energy-only market to function properly, price peaks generally need to be allowed, so that market price signals can also lead to investment and prices reflect the actual energy shortage.
the commission will also be able to use the latest available data to assess the energy efficiency of the member states.
fourthly, the national responsibility for the energy mix, as laid down in the treaties, should be maintained.
paragraph 47 refers to the paris agreement on climate change, which takes into account the objective of gradual decarbonisation.
paragraph 53 rightly warns against the interlinking of supply targets with climate policy objectives.
the fifth point: distribution system operators, paragraphs 61 to 64. the report does not call for further unbundling beyond the third energy package.
the commission is to be given decision-making powers to coordinate cross-border issues, but will not be able to carry out comprehensive monitoring of the energy market.
the commission is not the question is what is the actual aim of designing an electricity market in the age of cop 21. our goal is to do everything we can to meet the climate goals, while providing enough affordable energy for everyone.
and just as the constant demands for the elimination of all subsidies for renewable energy sources are preparing us.
we do not need, for example, taxes on solar energy, and we must not neglect the rights of consumers.
secondly, with regard to the expansion of renewable energies, i think it is right and good that the report states that we do not want a permanent subsidy of renewable energy systems and that we must move towards a market economy approach to feed-in tariff systems.
they recognize that we have different local situations both in terms of resources and in terms of energy needs.
you acknowledge that member states continue to decide on the energy mix, and yet you believe that you can create something like a market where you have 28 different national regulations.
in recent years, there have been incredible developments in the energy and electricity sectors.
with the overall good development of renewables and their steadily increasing share in the energy mix, the face and conditions of the energy market are changing rapidly: the emphasis is shifting from centralized to decentralized organization and above all to citizens as consumers and also as producers.
in june, we decided in parliament that renewables should account for at least 30% of the energy mix by 2030. we must not, under any circumstances, put a stop to this development.
in view of the very different developments in the member states, we should also be careful not to prevent the respective measures to promote renewable energies from being implemented by european standards, and therefore we should not rule out the still necessary subsidization of renewable energies.
only with effective agriculture and forestry can we manage to maintain the cultural landscape, protect biodiversity and maintain an attractive habitat for our young families, in order to prevent rural exodus.
we have established, as i mentioned, a smart specialised strategy platform, we have also created a number of thematic platforms that already provide specific support in areas such as energy, food industry, agri-food, digital or circular economy depending on the specialisation chosen by each region.
however, the use of financial instruments outside the eu budget is not sustainable.
mr moscovici said that they had successfully agreed that they would ensure sustainable growth in the long term.
the eu has failed to ratify the climate agreement.
it has been almost a year since the volkswagen emissions scandal broke, and more than six months have passed since the committee of inquiry on emission measurements in the automotive sector started its work.
for that reason i offered, with my services, to provide practical guidance to the national authorities on how to handle emissions control systems at type approval.
first, it improves the protection of millions of people on both sides of the atlantic from emissions that are harmful to health.
just last week, we heard this speculation: the former environment commissioner, potočnik, reportedly informed his colleague tajani of this in a letter.
firstly, i think that a clear distinction must be drawn between illegal shutdowns and increased emissions from diesel-powered cars in road use.
i had the feeling that many members of the committee wanted to prove a conspiracy between the commission and the car industry against the consumer and against environmental interests.
the lesson we have to learn from this is that it's important that we try to reduce emissions, of course, of the greenhouse gas co2, but also, for example, to create cleaner air and less pollutants.
and we also need to be ambitious in our controls and implementation, and as soon as possible, including real driving emissions.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the excessive use of fossil fuels.
it's clear that it makes a huge difference in terms of emissions whether you're using fuel at 80 miles an hour or 100 miles an hour or 100 miles an hour.
it is stipulated that by 2017 or 2019, i think, 168 milligrams of nox may be emitted under real driving emissions conditions and by 2021 only 129 milligrams.
otherwise we will actually be creating a climate in our inner cities that is absolutely intolerable and harmful to health.
its aim is to strengthen the harmonious, balanced and sustainable development, cohesion and competitiveness of europe.
given that, in addition to meaningful projects, many activities under eu cohesion policy are not targeted, sustainable or efficiently implemented, and that funds available in individual member states cannot be called up due to a lack of professional administrative capacity, a blanket demand for more funds for a cohesion policy instrument is a mockery of the european taxpayer.
given that, in addition to meaningful projects, many activities under eu cohesion policy are not targeted, sustainable or efficiently implemented, and that funds available in individual member states cannot be called up due to a lack of professional administrative capacity, a blanket demand for more funds for a cohesion policy instrument is a mockery of the european taxpayer.
given that, in addition to meaningful projects, many activities under eu cohesion policy are not targeted, sustainable or efficiently implemented, and that funds available in individual member states cannot be called up due to a lack of professional administrative capacity, a blanket demand for more funds for a cohesion policy instrument is a mockery of the european taxpayer.
given that, in addition to meaningful projects, many activities under eu cohesion policy are not targeted, sustainable or efficiently implemented, and that funds available in individual member states cannot be called up due to a lack of professional administrative capacity, a blanket demand for more funds for a cohesion policy instrument is a mockery of the european taxpayer.
he's part of a major parliamentary investigation into the emissions scandal.
‒ there is a campaign in the committee of inquiry into emissions.
the former environment commissioner potočnik reportedly informed his colleague tajani of this in a letter.
‒ following the vw emissions scandal, the committee of inquiry into emissions measurements in the automotive industry was established on 2 march 2016 to investigate alleged breaches of union law and maladministration in its application in relation to emissions measurements in the automotive industry, without prejudice to the jurisdiction of national or union courts.
‒ following the vw emissions scandal, the committee of inquiry into emissions measurements in the automotive industry was established on 2 march 2016 to investigate alleged breaches of union law and maladministration in its application in relation to emissions measurements in the automotive industry, without prejudice to the jurisdiction of national or union courts.
‒ following the vw emissions scandal, the committee of inquiry into emissions measurements in the automotive industry was established on 2 march 2016 to investigate alleged breaches of union law and maladministration in its application in relation to emissions measurements in the automotive industry, without prejudice to the jurisdiction of national or union courts.
experts were asked to provide information on emissions measurements and former commissioners were interviewed to find out their motives.
‒ following the vw emissions scandal, the committee of inquiry into emissions measurements in the automotive industry was established on 2 march 2016 to investigate alleged breaches of union law and maladministration in its application in relation to emissions measurements in the automotive industry, without prejudice to the jurisdiction of national or union courts.
monitoring and enforcement of emissions standards should be left to the members states in which best practices will be adopted through regulatory competition.
such statistics, under the supervision of eurostat, serve the purpose of comparability and make a major contribution to the transparency of the energy market.
the entire basis for justification, that the ‘growing complexity of the internal energy market make it increasingly difficult to obtain reliable and up-to-date price data’, is insufficient.
‒ i voted in favour of the report because it sets out the measures needed to complete the eu-wide internal energy market.
‒ i abstained in the vote on the report on the subject 'towards the transformation of the energy market', because, although the dossier is certainly well-intentioned, in many areas it has lost sight of the necessary triad of environmental friendliness, availability and price.
‒ the transformation of the european energy market is necessary to1.
energy security is a key concern not only for the european economy but also for european consumers.
3. to strengthen regional cooperation in energy policy, in particular in investments in new energy generation facilities, interconnectors and support schemes, and in the integration of renewable energies into the european internal market.
i think that european-supported regional cooperation in the field of renewable energy is very useful, because it can create transregional synergies.
either we completely liberalise european energy markets and create a common european energy market, as we are doing now with the digital single market, or we leave the member states to decide on their country's energy mix and ensure energy security.
this report is not a consistent advocate of deregulation and liberalisation of energy markets, nor is it a complete advocate of subsidiarity.
it does not set out a clear line for the future of european energy policy.
in line with the concept paper presented by party chair ulrike trebesius, alfa is committed to leaving energy policy entirely to the member states.
either we completely liberalise european energy markets and create a common european energy market, as we are doing now with the digital single market, or we leave the member states to decide on their country's energy mix and ensure energy security.
this report is not a consistent advocate of deregulation and liberalisation of energy markets, nor is it a complete advocate of subsidiarity.
it does not set out a clear line for the future of european energy policy.
in line with the concept paper presented by party chair ulrike trebesius, alfa is committed to leaving energy policy entirely to the member states.
either we completely liberalise european energy markets and create a common european energy market, as we are doing now with the digital single market, or we leave the member states to decide on their country's energy mix and ensure energy security.
this report is not a consistent advocate of deregulation and liberalisation of energy markets, nor is it a complete advocate of subsidiarity.
it does not set out a clear line for the future of european energy policy.
in line with the concept paper presented by party chair ulrike trebesius, alfa is committed to leaving energy policy entirely to the member states.
‒ i voted in favour of the proposal to restructure the energy market, as it aims to strengthen the internal energy market and avoid grid bottlenecks.
the efficient use of energy storage capacity, network expansion and the efficient use of interconnectors are essential for this.
the commission will also be able to provide information on the implementation of the new energy policy.
either we completely liberalise european energy markets and create a common european energy market, as we are doing now with the digital single market, or we leave the member states to decide on their country's energy mix and ensure energy security.
this report is not a consistent advocate of deregulation and liberalisation of energy markets, nor is it a complete advocate of subsidiarity.
it does not set out a clear line for the future of european energy policy.
in line with the concept paper presented by party chair ulrike trebesius, alfa is committed to leaving energy policy entirely to the member states.
‒ i voted against the motion for an eu parliament resolution towards a new energy market design.
furthermore, where regulations regarding energy markets may be desired by the peoples of the member states, their institutions rather than eu should supply them.
either we completely liberalise european energy markets and create a common european energy market, as we are doing now with the digital single market, or we leave the member states to decide on their country's energy mix and ensure energy security.
this report is not a consistent advocate of deregulation and liberalisation of energy markets, nor is it a complete advocate of subsidiarity.
it does not set out a clear line for the future of european energy policy.
in line with the concept paper presented by me as party chairman, alfa is committed to leaving energy policy entirely to the member states.
europe can encourage european producers and retailers to do more for energy-efficient products, thus helping citizens and families across europe to save money.
at present, half of the energy produced in the eu is used for heating or cooling.
18% of this energy is generated from renewable energy sources only, 75% is generated from fossil energy sources.
the proposed increase in the energy efficiency of buildings and the better interconnection of electricity and district heating systems is a good approach.
in particular, the promotion of better use of industrial and agricultural waste heat opens up new opportunities in rural areas.
‒ i voted in favour of the eu strategy for heating and cooling proposed by the commission because reducing high energy consumption is a priority of the energy union.
the strategy includes plans to increase the energy efficiency of buildings and improve the connections between electricity systems and district heating networks, significantly increasing the use of renewable energy sources and promoting the reuse of waste heat and cold generated in industry.
markets should determine which energy types should be used rather than what bureaucrats find is currently fashionable.
with regards to job creation via stimulus, whether spent on energy efficiency or digging holes, it does not create jobs.
it will also make an important contribution to achieving the europe 2020 targets for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
the report also stresses the importance of promoting innovation in key sectors of the economy while preserving traditional forms of economic activity, supports the diversification of tourism and highlights the importance of improving transport and energy connectivity and protecting and promoting biodiversity in the alpine region.
the misrepresentation of climate change, which has been repeated here, does not give this resolution any further legitimacy as an eu competence.
the so-called 'operational programmes' do not ensure sustainable economic growth but rather a sustained dependence on the goodwill of the brussels eurocrats.
together, we send a clear, united, and quite unequivocal message to our turkish friends, that the european union is committed to engaging in an intense, open, frank, and constructive dialogue on all issues and to continuing to work together on all strands of our cooperation – from foreign policy to regional crises, from energy to trade, from visa liberalisation to the upgrade of the customs union, from migration to counterterrorism.
we could also talk about cultural and scientific exchanges, we could talk about tourism, we could talk about environmental policy.
but it is not hunger, climate change or drought that are forcing people to flee, but a president and his aides who are not prepared to follow the democratically expressed will of the people of gabon to step down and pave the way for democratic change in the country.
through trade and investment it contributes to sustainable development and poverty reduction.
the epa will only be one instrument to tap into this energy, but it will prove pivotal in re-anchoring the trade bonds between africa and the european union.
moreover, should the eu apply a multilateral safeguard on the wto rules, the eu offers its epa partners a renewable five-year exemption from its application.
this epa also contains some of the strongest language on rights and sustainable development available in eu agreements.
in sadc the first chapter is devoted to sustainable development, which underlines the importance of this aspect to the parties.
i strongly believe that this epa has the potential to bring fundamental positive change and contribute to sustainable economic growth and deepened intra-regional trade integration.
today, therefore, we, as the inta committee and as this parliament, would like to know the following points from the commission: 1. what specific measures will the commission take to ensure that the epa is implemented in a manner which upholds the sustainable development provisions of the sadc epa, and will it consider setting up a structured civil society monitoring process, such as a domestic advisory group and provisions for parliamentary oversight?
the agreement includes a sustainability chapter.
trade with continued free market access for acp states to the eu internal market is to be combined with efforts to achieve sustainable development in the partner countries.
we will actively promote the adoption of international criteria on the sustainable and illegal trade of hunting trophies in order to ensure that imports of these trophies are of legal and sustainable origin.
the presidency, together with the commission and the member states, is determined to take an active role to ensure that cites continues to be an effective tool in order to attain its two main objectives: conservation and sustainable management of natural resources.
we need to maintain a diverse environment for our future generations.
– mr president, i would like, first of all, to agree with mr gerbrandy that this cites meeting will be fundamentally important for the protection of biodiversity and also important for the fight against wildlife trafficking and for the eu itself.
much has been achieved in cites in recent years in favour of sustainable trade in marine species, notably sharks.
the european union believes that the time has come for all cites parties to agree on common criteria to ensure that hunting trophies of cites species come from sustainable and legal sources.
the flourishing trade in illegally acquired plants and animals is a serious threat to nature, particularly in terms of the loss of biodiversity, and also to humans.
it is important to me not to ban trophy hunting altogether, because i believe that well-organized and sustainable trophy hunting has quite beneficial effects for nature and people, and that is why common rules are needed in the framework of cites.
many commitments have been made in recent years at the international level to combat wildlife trafficking and to make international trade in wildlife products legal and sustainable.
they were tightened in 2015 to ensure a thorough check by eu scientific experts on the sustainability of these imports.
when the sustainability of these trophies cannot be established, no imports into the eu can take place.
we now believe that internationally agreed guidelines should be agreed in the context of cites to ensure that hunting trophies of cites-listed species come only from legal and sustainable sources.
the eu has also submitted a proposal to review the status of eel species with a view to making recommendations to ensure sustainable trade in them.
our partners around the world - currently mainly in the us and china, but soon also in india and japan - are holding the climate mirror up to our faces.
the paris agreement on climate change - a legally binding global agreement - would not have been possible without the european union.
i urge us - few eu countries have done so - to ratify the paris climate pact!
alongside these efforts to attract private investment, we also need to create the right environment to invest in.
it must be habitable for citizens, with affordable housing, with secure jobs, with sustainable development, with a safe environment - all of these things go together.
i think that with one of the great green projects for the future, the climate union, provided that we don't just ratify paris quickly, but that we get serious about transformation and focus on efficiency and renewable energy, we can start an economic dynamism in many countries that will benefit everyone.
as greens, we are always ready to defend the great achievements of the european union in consumer protection, environmental protection, nature protection and even data protection.
it has to make a difference whether a country is effectively investing in modern technology, in the energy revolution or funding the stone age.
although the aim is to achieve free trade, the eu has negotiated with the sadc epa states that they may exceptionally exempt existing export duties from the new arrangements under the agreement and introduce new export taxes when there is a special need for revenue to protect developing industries or the environment.
and that can increase the employability, the unity and, if you will, the sustainability of the european union.
manfred weber, the chairman of the epp group, said this morning that europe stands for growth, for sustainability, for employment.
it has shown the continuing importance of affordable, reliable and sustainable postal services across the eu, and it has underlined the role of postal operators in providing employment.
(the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.) (the president declared the result of the vote) the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the euro is now an average product, offering a too-hard interest rate environment for soft currency countries and providing financial subsidies to the point of bubble formation in hard currency countries.
we need a stable regulatory environment and better enforcement to relieve our smes and not burden them with red tape.
(parliament adopted the resolution)
ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow, tuesday, we will be able to welcome the secretary-general of the united nations, mr ban ki-moon, and the minister for the environment of the french republic, mrs ségolène royal, in her capacity as president of the cop 21 climate conference.
i shall then propose to you that we change the agenda for tomorrow so that a short ceremonial meeting on the possible ratification of the paris agreement on climate change can be held here tomorrow, at which the secretary-general of the united nations will speak to us in the house.
the vote will of course depend on whether the environment committee, at its meeting this evening, makes a positive recommendation for the vote to be taken in the plenary tomorrow.
if ratified here tomorrow, the paris agreement could enter into force less than a year after its adoption, in time for the cop22 climate conference in marrakesh.
the vote tomorrow here, and the fact that it will be binding on the member states of the european union, will also ensure that the minimum quorum required by the united nations to put the climate change agreement into effect worldwide is attained.
(parliament adopted the amendment) tuesday: i had already pointed out in my introduction that: the environment committee is voting tonight on the report by mr la via on the conclusion of the paris agreement on behalf of the european union under the united nations convention on climate change.
ladies and gentlemen, the secretary-general of the united nations - i said that just now - has accepted an invitation to take part in tomorrow's vote on the grounds that tomorrow's vote here and the related transmission of the result of the vote to the council and the deposit of the ratification at the united nations will achieve the minimum quorum required by the united nations to bring the climate change agreement into force worldwide.
then we vote on ratifying the climate change treaty.
if the vote is a majority in this house - which i am assuming - i shall then sign the letter of transmittal to the council here in the presence of secretary-general ban ki-moon, commission president juncker, the commissioner responsible for energy and the environment and the council, and mrs royal as president-in-office of the cop 21 conference.
the signature of this agreement will give the council the power to act directly and will pave the way for the entry into force of the climate agreement, which will be legally binding on all the united nations member states.
it is the result of close cooperation between our countries in europe and 78 countries, mostly developing countries, which is based on the hyperlink "http://www.bpb.de/lexika/lexikon-der-wirtschaft/20027/lome-abkommen" the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment.
i call climate change, migration, the new sdgs and the fight against terrorism global issues that we can well address within the eu-acp framework and where we are committed to finding solutions together with our partners.
you yourself, commissioner, have spoken of the climate agreement.
i think we have to start there: without good governance, there can be no sustainable development.
but we also know that this is not enough to achieve sustainable development goal 2, to end hunger by 2030. that is why parliament is asking for another billion.
sustainable global logging and trade is the foundation of a functioning timber industry.
despite all efforts to establish a responsible rule of law here, rain forests continue to be cleared and biodiversity destroyed.
the eu's trade agreements should therefore include such provisions in the sustainability chapters.
i'm pleased to inform you that the house environment committee last night adopted the report on the paris agreement.
this would be an outstanding result even one year after its adoption in december 2015. and it would be in time for the next cop22 climate conference in marrakech.
i am therefore very pleased that the president-in-office of the cop 21 climate conference is attending our meeting today, and i would like to thank you, madam minister royal, on behalf of the whole french government, for your great efforts.
– your excellency mr martin schulz, president of the european parliament, your excellency mr jean-claude juncker, president of the commission, your excellency mr ivan korčok, president-in-office of the council and state secretary for eu affairs, your excellency madam ségolène royal, president of cop21, your excellency mr maroš šefčovič, vice-president in charge of energy union, your excellency mr miguel arias cañete, commissioner for climate action and energy, your excellency mr giovanni la via, chair of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, honourable eu parliamentarians, excellencies, distinguished ministers, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour for me, as secretary-general of the united nations, to take this opportunity to address once again the distinguished members of the european parliament.
i was not originally planning to come to strasbourg but i diverted my travel to address you at this crucial time, at the invitation of president schulz, on the importance of europe’s ratification of the paris agreement on climate change.
the european union has a long and proud record of leadership on climate change – the defining challenge of our time.
as members of the european union, your countries have demonstrated, time and again, that you not only recognise the seriousness of this threat but you are also ready to seize the opportunities it brings for building more sustainable, competitive economies and stable and healthier societies.
from an early leadership role in the un framework convention negotiations, to support for the green climate fund and other funding mechanisms, to your own efforts in scaling-up clean energy, european union members have stood strong.
today you have another opportunity to demonstrate global climate leadership.
at the same time, i welcome the decision by the eu environment ministers on 30 september to act on a fast track.
it would spur the transformation to the lower-carbon, higher—opportunity, climate-resilient economy that we need in order to keep global temperature increases well below two degrees.
and it would help to protect the world’s most vulnerable communities and assist them in adapting to inevitable climate impact.
this is our chance to set a course towards a safer, more sustainable and more just future for all, on a healthy planet.
i sincerely hope that the european union will continue to lead in supporting the noble missions of the united nations for human rights, sustainable development and lasting peace in our world.
climate change is probably the central issue of our generation of politicians, and that's why today is a historic day.
the fight against climate change is a global challenge, and we all agree on this.
a binding framework has been created to reduce greenhouse gases.
let's talk about how we, as a global community, can collectively meet this responsibility and how we can help to make a lasting difference to our environment, our social community and our relationship with animals.
so i ask you again: the european union's agreed targets for reducing greenhouse gases are not enough!
because what can be said about the paris agreement can now be said about the ratification process, and i am deeply convinced that this agreement is important for international climate action, but that it is also important for the united nations, which you will lead until the end of this year.
the european union has all the technologies to do things differently: we can produce energy differently, we can organise transport differently.
i would like to begin by giving the floor to the rapporteur and chairman of the committee on the environment, mr giovanni la via.
we now come to the vote on the recommendation on behalf of the european union on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the paris agreement concluded under the united nations framework convention on climate change.
we are not just talking, we are actively fighting against climate change!
‒ the european parliament has reaffirmed the message of the paris climate conference.
the eu ratified the agreement just 10 months after the un climate conference in paris.
‒ i voted in favour of the draft recommendation on the paris agreement, which is part of the un framework convention on climate change (unfccc).
the goal of the historic paris agreement is to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050, i.e.
to emit no more carbon dioxide than is absorbed.
‒ i did not vote for the european parliament resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the paris agreement concluded under the united nations framework convention on climate change.
it is an agreement to tackle climate change.
climate change has been going on for as long as the earth has existed.
climate policy is based on hypothetical climate models based on computer simulations by the ipcc (the "world climate council").
carbon dioxide (co2) is not a pollutant but an essential component of all life.
i therefore do not share the basic assumptions of man-made climate change.
i don't think it should be a policy goal to keep global warming well below 2 degrees celsius above pre-industrial levels.
the compulsory reduction of co2 emissions planned for this purpose weakens the economic base and lowers the standard of living.
fighting an allegedly man-made climate change is destabilizing and costing our previously secure electricity supply.
the afd says 'yes to environmental protection', but ends its 'climate protection policy' and plans for decarbonisation and 'transformation of society'.
i reject this fund on principle as a waste of taxpayers' money.
i reject this fund on principle as a waste of taxpayers' money.
‒ i voted in favour of the report because i welcome the call to put the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals at the centre of a new agreement and to create a strong monitoring mechanism.
with a legally binding common framework and legally binding regional agreements, we will effectively contribute to the achievement of the sustainable development goal.
finally, i reject the report because it calls for gender equality, cooperation on climate change and, above all, because the new cooperation agreement provides for a joint parliamentary assembly (jpa) which would create or deepen a completely displaced parliamentary dimension within the framework of a partnership agreement.
measures have also been taken to improve the business environment, including the implementation of oecd competition measures.
legislative initiatives were adopted on land use, energy market liberalisation, the establishment of a new privatisation and investment fund to fight corruption, another major point of the memorandum of understanding adopted in july 2015. we also wanted to strengthen the independence of the commission and the lines of competition to depoliticize public administration.
measures should have been taken by mid-september in the areas of pension reform, bank governance, energy market liberalisation, privatisation and the independent public revenue agency.
that is what i really want, that is what the commission is committed to and that is what i, for my part, continue to devote a good deal of my political energy to, my political capital because i think that it is really in all of our interests that greece emerges stronger from this crisis and finds its full place in the euro area, as i have had the opportunity to say, as simply a normal economy.
the commission is fully committed to ensuring the success of the programme to help greece find the path to sustainable growth and job creation.
i would remind you that greece is already benefiting from the third economic adjustment programme and the expectations are clear in my view: the greek government must pursue reforms on its own initiative with the aim of bringing greece back to a sustainable path of growth and jobs.
what we need instead in greece is a breakthrough for sustainable energy, for energy efficiency.
new lignite power stations are destroying the environment and are not creating sustainable jobs.
the international monetary fund is not involved - that was the precondition for the cdu and csu to participate in the first place - the pension reforms are stalled, the opening up of the energy sector is not progressing, and the evergreen: the land register still does not exist.
today we have the conclusion of the co2 agreement, the climate agreement, and we all know that this is our main task.
i would never say that this initiative can replace a proper youth guarantee, erasmus, european schools or even the ecological and social year in the european union.
this is not helpful, because if we fail to find sustainable solutions for refugees, their numbers will increase.
‒ global goals and eu commitments on nutrition and food security in the world: this oral question and its accompanying resolution are centred on sustainable development goal 2 and its targets, which aims at ending hunger and malnutrition by 2030. since the resolution includes the importance of the private sector and the necessity to include the most affected countries in global trade, my group and i have voted positively.
the european parliament calls for better coordination of the various eu instruments and programmes and calls on the member states to promote sustainable agriculture and local food production.
we need to further strengthen our industrial policy, investing even more in innovation, energy efficiency, a functioning circular economy and digital development.
the europe 2020 targets to make europe the most competitive region in the world and to promote smart, sustainable and inclusive growth are the right approach.
and the us and europe must not waste any thought on the possibility of paying compensation to russia for sanctions.
we will exert pressure to improve the political climate in the country, and in particular to ensure that absolute respect is guaranteed for human rights and fundamental freedoms at this critical time for consolidating drc’s democratic progress.
i want to say to them today that i thank them for their struggle, for their energy and for the hope that they have put into this, over the last weeks and months, and that we will stand side by side with them in solidarity because their struggle is our struggle and their rights are our rights.
yesterday was indeed a historic day: here in the plenary we have created the conditions for the paris agreement on climate change to enter into force in record time.
it is always very important for our group, the epp group, that we have ambitious climate action and the safeguarding and creation of jobs in common.
the negotiations on emissions trading in the committee on industry, research and energy yesterday also made an important step forward.
i would like to point out that another major conference is currently taking place in montreal, where the world is meeting and also talking about climate action.
the icao, the international civil aviation organisation, is meeting in montreal, and we in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety have said in our resolution, which we hope will be adopted by a large majority in the plenary tomorrow, that what is on the table is disappointing.
and this has implications for european climate policy: air transport is included in emissions trading, and actually, from next year, it will be the case that intercontinental flights will be included again.
climate change can only work if everyone shoulders the bill.
we need everyone to get their act together so that this climate change thing can work.
i wonder if we should waste many years before we tackle these problems.
they are somewhere on the road to real, sustainable transparency.
– madam president, first i would like to thank and congratulate ms schaldemose and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) for their excellent work in producing this report on the implementation of the food contact materials regulation.
the allocation of these funds was linked by the eurogroup at that time to the promise of greece's debt sustainability.
today we know that the imf is officially calling off this debt sustainability and is calling for a debt cut.
we have already established before 2014 that the greek debt is not sustainable, and the eurogroup must have been clear about this.
we all need to continue to step up our efforts and commit to further emission reductions by 2030. the ratification of the un framework convention on climate change is a great success, and the time has come to make further progress on the key points of the paris agreement in the forthcoming negotiations.
‒ this report focuses on the european parliament's priorities in preparing for the cop22 conference in marrakech in november 2016. it contains welcome aspects, such as the linking of the european emissions trading system with other markets or measures to limit 'carbon leakages' or the shifting of european emissions by the migration of production to other regions of the world.
however, the report also advocates a financial transaction tax or the raising of already established climate and efficiency targets.
‒ this report focuses on the european parliament's priorities in preparing for the cop22 conference in marrakesh in november 2016. it contains welcome aspects, such as the linking of the european emissions trading system with other markets or measures to limit 'carbon leakages' or the shifting of european emissions by the migration of production to other regions of the world.
however, the report also advocates a financial transaction tax or the raising of already established climate and efficiency targets.
‒ i voted for the resolution on the implementation of the paris agreement and for the next un climate change conference in marrakesh, morocco.
the eu is thus paving the way for the world climate agreement, the first binding agreement to combat global warming.
the paris agreement aims to achieve global carbon neutrality by 2050, i.e.
no more carbon dioxide is emitted than is absorbed.
the treaty commits the world community to limiting global warming to 'well below two degrees celsius' compared with pre-industrial times.
the historic paris climate agreement can now come into force at the beginning of november.
‒ this report focuses on the european parliament's priorities in preparing for the cop22 conference in marrakesh in november 2016. it contains welcome aspects, such as the linking of the european emissions trading system with other markets or measures to limit 'carbon leakages' or the shifting of european emissions by the migration of production to other regions of the world.
‒ this report focuses on the european parliament's priorities in preparing for the cop22 conference in marrakesh in november 2016. it contains welcome aspects, such as the linking of the european emissions trading system with other markets or measures to limit 'carbon leakages' or the shifting of european emissions by the migration of production to other regions of the world.
however, the report also advocates a financial transaction tax or the raising of already established climate and efficiency targets.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on 'sustainable finance' (2016/2896 ((rsp)).
i would like to enter this debate by emphasizing that environmental considerations do not override the basic types of computation.
this means that when we talk about sustainable finances, we should first of all look at the situation of the eu and its member states.
sustainable finances mean that you can only spend as much as you have.
we must also be truly sustainable.
a few colleagues, especially mr kölmel and mr jakovčić, referred to the stablility and growth pact and this is obviously part of the interpretation on sustainability, even though the focus of today’s discussion was maybe more on carbon and environmental related issues.
but when talking about a more general interpretation of sustainability, the stability and growth pact issues are very, very important and the rules must be followed.
when talking about sustainable financing or green financing, i would like to avoid marginalising this topic to only very narrowly interpreted projects, because sustainable financing is supposed to be mainstream – over time – and not just complementary to main financing.
that is why our focus as legislators and regulators should be to look at the needs and the possible changes in our regulatory environment in order to encourage the private sector to change their business models to be more sustainable; and also in the banking sector to look if there is anything on the regulatory side that we should change in order to make it possible for the private banks then to address the needs of, for instance, businesses in the circular economy.
you referred to the importance of public financing when looking at the eu opportunities in financing sustainable projects.
it can of course mean lots of different things, but sustainability should in any event play an even more important role than at the moment in efsi operations.
the carbon stress tests and the french model of disclosure are both very interesting opportunities.
carbon stress tests, as proposed by the european systemic risk board, could be a very important risk management tool.
for instance, in france there is a fantastic example of energy-efficiency investment where the public—private partnership companies collected together 40 000 houses or apartments for retrofitting in order to reduce energy consumption.
i have just heard that in the average apartment, the energy saving after they been retrofitted is eur 80 per month for a family living in an apartment.
this of course has a big impact on the climate policy too.
this is of value in itself, and we need to fulfil this role effectively, because our interests are also at stake, in particular the sustainability of the jcpoa.
sustainability is crucial for the deal to hold, but sustainability can only be ensured if all sides properly implement the jcpoa and if the iranian people, who strongly backed the deal, can feel its economic benefits and reconnect with the international community.
but as i said, sustainability requires firm and longstanding adherence throughout the lifetime of the agreement.
the remaining united states primary sanctions – and we had a debate on this in july – and the poor business environment in iran, are additional factors for hesitation.
just a few weeks ago, we received a high-level visit from iran on the environment, and we agreed to launch cooperation on environmental protection.
the european union has established cooperation also in other areas such as energy and nuclear safety, but also in education, culture and research.
as it emerged from a conversation with the deputy foreign minister, it has taken iran a great deal of effort to accept those parts of the nuclear agreement which do not relate to the military use of nuclear energy but to commercial use.
we call for respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and, above all, for international labour, social and environmental standards.
we call for the protection of the environment and the promotion of environmentally sustainable development to be promoted, where possible also in european cooperation.
in this context, i would like to draw attention to the environmental disaster around lake urmia, a disaster which has repercussions far beyond the borders of iran.
it is always the germans who think they have to save the world's climate, the euro and the world's refugees.
– mr president, i am very glad to be here this morning to discuss the first of a series of monthly reports on progress towards building an effective and sustainable security union.
second, to build our resilience, to strengthen our information systems by making them more joined up, and to reinforce our critical infrastructure, particularly our transport, energy and cyber security, which are too often targeted by terrorists and criminals.
we need an environment where people can feel safe, and there are many small steps that can be taken to achieve this.
we need an environment of an open society that defends freedoms and civil rights.
such an approach is fundamentally critical, as it does not focus on the necessary actions of member states in terms of budgetary consolidation, the provision of professional administrative capacity and the implementation of sustainable projects and programmes.
such an approach is fundamentally critical, as it does not focus on the necessary actions of member states in terms of budgetary consolidation, the provision of professional administrative capacity and the implementation of sustainable projects and programmes.
such an approach is fundamentally critical, as it does not focus on the necessary actions of member states in terms of budgetary consolidation, the provision of professional administrative capacity and the implementation of sustainable projects and programmes.
such an approach is fundamentally critical, as it does not focus on the necessary actions of member states in terms of budgetary consolidation, the provision of professional administrative capacity and the implementation of sustainable projects and programmes.
such an approach is fundamentally critical, as it does not focus on the necessary actions of member states in terms of budgetary consolidation, the provision of professional administrative capacity and the implementation of sustainable projects and programmes.
the report by mrs ferrara is particularly important because it sheds light on the current situation in the european union in the fight against corruption in the member states, organised crime and environmental crime.
the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the implementation of the european year of the environment.
the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the implementation of the european year of the environment.
the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the implementation of the european year of the environment.
the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the implementation of the european year of the environment.
the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the implementation of the european year of the environment.
‒ the provision and use of lng is essential for a crisis-proof, europe-wide energy supply.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu strategy on liquefied natural gas and gas storage, as an internal energy market in which liquefied natural gas and gas storage are fully integrated will be essential to the objective of crisis-proof energy supply.
the report is based on the assumption that co2 emissions need to be reduced because of the alleged human-induced climate change.
‒ as a member of the european parliament for mecklenburg-western pomerania, i voted today in favour of the report on ways of harmonising fisheries control in europe because i am convinced that effective controls are the only way to ensure the sustainable conservation of our fish stocks.
effective controls on fishing activities need to be established to ensure sustainable management of living marine resources.
the challenges are clear and you have identified them in your report: a deteriorating international environment, the legacy of the crisis, with high levels of debt and unemployment, and diverging economic and social performances amongst member states.
the commission is also working to improve the overall investment environment, but it cannot succeed in this alone.
the member states should improve their business and investment environment in areas like insolvency, public procurement, judicial systems and the efficiency of public administration or sector—specific regulations.
in the spring we found that the member states made ‘limited to some progress’ in addressing the issues identified in the csrs issued in 2015. and this progress varied across policy fields: most significant progress was observed in the areas of financial services and actual labour market policies, while definitely much more was expected to ensure a business and employment-friendly environment.
however, all member states should pursue responsible fiscal policies, in compliance with the stability and growth pact, putting public finances on a sustainable track and addressing the still high public debt in many member states.
it is about creating an environment that triggers investment.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the right to vote on the proposals for directives on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
it has been pointed out here on many occasions that climate change, globalisation and, of course, people's active travel behaviour have had an unintended consequence: introduced pests from third countries are found in many parts of europe.
similarly, honourable members would raise concern if actions on partly hydrogenated oils pushed operators towards alternatives that are not environmentally sustainable.
in the coming weeks we will launch an external study on the impact of these policy options on operators, consumers and the environment.
members of the european parliament mentioned: the economic impact on small and medium enterprises; the environmental impact related to use of palm oil; the increased cost for consumers; and so on and so on.
we are simply reacting to steps taken by russia, which is working with considerable energy and focus to weaken and divide the eu.
on 5 october, the eu ratified the paris agreement on climate change.
its propaganda, its economic interests - gas supplies, energy policy - are also working their way into the highest political circles of the european union.
‒ not surprisingly, i did not agree with the full budget of the european union for 2017. a selection: the eu parliament adopted a budget for preparatory actions for a common military budget of half a million euro, a propaganda budget for the benefits of the euro of 11 million euro, 3 million euro for a project to accelerate integration through training for migrant women, an approved, an extra 50 million euro for an excellence programme for cooperation in the youth field and for young people's participation in european democratic life, 18 million euro for the social fund with gender mainstreaming, 1.5 billion euro for the european youth employment initiative, 5 million euro for a greener economy and the implementation of the european environmental policy, 148 million euro and another 750 million euro for the introduction of the eu's heritage to turkey, another 137 million euro for the support of reforms in turkey, 4.6 million euro for the eu parliament, 32 million euro for the eu's external assistance to luxembourg, 16 million euro for the european parliament, 98 million euro for the new european parliamentary constituencies, 16 million euro for the european parliamentary constituencies in strasbourg, 16 million euro for the european parliament, 16 million euro for the european parliamentary constituencies in strasbourg, 17 million euro for the european parliament's new offices in luxembourg, and 98 million euro for the european parliament's travel between brussels and strasbourg.
the budget is rejected because of a number of specific projects: the budget internalised costs of allegedly man-made climate change, the efsi, eu-level youth unemployment programmes or a facility for refugees in turkey are only some of the most prominent examples.
in addition, particularly in cohesion policy and in certain areas of agricultural policy, sustainability, targeting and a professional monitoring of success through measurable results are often lacking.
in addition, particularly in cohesion policy and in certain areas of agricultural policy, sustainability, targeting and a professional monitoring of success through measurable results are often lacking.
in addition, particularly in cohesion policy and in certain areas of agricultural policy, sustainability, targeting and a professional monitoring of success through measurable results are often lacking.
in addition, particularly in cohesion policy and in certain areas of agricultural policy, sustainability, targeting and a professional monitoring of success through measurable results are often lacking.
in addition, particularly in cohesion policy and in certain areas of agricultural policy, sustainability, targeting and a professional monitoring of success through measurable results are often lacking.
i reject this fund on principle as a waste of taxpayers' money.
it is essential for europe's biodiversity to find ways of controlling pests effectively and yet in an environmentally sound way.
the commission should also continue to promote long-term investments in transport, communication, digital economy, education, research, climate change, energy and environmental protection, and facilitate financing opportunities for smes.
‒ in its annual report on the commission's country-specific recommendations in the context of the european semester, the european parliament identifies weak public demand and a deteriorating international environment as a key challenge to the economic recovery of the european union.
‒ in its annual report on the commission's country-specific recommendations in the context of the european semester, the european parliament identifies weak public demand and a deteriorating international environment as key challenges for the economic recovery of the european union.
‒ in its annual report on the commission's country-specific recommendations in the context of the european semester, the european parliament identifies weak public demand and a deteriorating international environment as a key challenge to the economic recovery of the european union.
‒ in its annual report on the commission's country-specific recommendations in the context of the european semester, the european parliament identifies weak public demand and a deteriorating international environment as a key challenge to the economic recovery of the european union.
‒ in its annual report on the commission's country-specific recommendations in the context of the european semester, the european parliament identifies weak public demand and a deteriorating international environment as a key challenge to the economic recovery of the european union.
a road built with zero error that goes to nowhere is 100% waste of money.
however, it is more important for me to emphasise that the error rate recorded each year is not the same as fraud or - as eu critics like to say - a waste of taxpayers' money.
the process of so-called nation building in retrospect is linked in belarus to the question of what a modern and sustainable state should look like and what the country's future place in the international division of labour and the family of nations should be.
we know that an integrated regulatory review service mission from the international atomic energy agency to belarus took place in october to review the regulatory process.
to this effect, a high-level mission by dg energy took place from 19 to 20 september 2016. so thank you very much again for this debate.
there is a climate of fear in turkey.
‒ i voted in favour of the discharge of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy, as i consider this area and this research project itself to be an important institution that needs to be supported and promoted across borders.
‒ the development of new, alternative energy sources is essential to ensure the future security of electricity supply throughout europe.
i therefore vote in favour of the discharge of the joint undertaking for iter and the associated further research and development of fusion energy.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the discharge for the iter joint undertaking and the development of fusion energy.
‒ i did not vote for the european parliament resolution on the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2014. the eu should not operate in the form of joint ventures.
the npt must therefore continue to be maintained and the work of the international atomic energy agency in promoting cooperation in the nuclear field must be supported.
i am completely opposed to the absurd idea of free interrail tickets for all 18-year-olds and i would rather see these billions of taxpayers' money invested in sustainable youth projects and the fight against youth unemployment.
whether substantial, such as subsidies, unemployment, impact of trade deals, environmental regulation, or irrelevant i.e.
summer time was introduced by most member states in the 1970s as a response to the energy crisis.
this concerns any possible effects either way, whether they relate to people’s health, energy savings, agriculture or transport.
at that time, this was introduced because everyone thought that we would save energy.
it is now clear that there is no saving of energy.
if there is no energy saving, why bother people with such a switch twice a year?
is there any data on the desired energy savings from the introduction of central european time?
all the other questions were ignored by your officials anyway: economic value, added value no answer; energy saving no answer; health risks no answer.
countless studies confirm that the added value of summertime in terms of energy policy is zero.
they wanted to see if they could save energy, and they wanted to see if they could reduce the accident rate, for example.
the fact is, energy savings equal zero has already been said.
we have seen from 0.9% less to 1% more energy consumption, alternating summer or winter time, so virtually no effect at all.
then the german bundestag's office for technology assessment, on behalf of the bundestag, found out just this year: the framework conditions have changed significantly since the introduction of the clock change: there are now other employment models; structural change has also occurred in the energy sector; there is a different mobility and leisure behaviour.
the benefits of the changeover are questionable: the original goal of energy saving is not being achieved and there is a large body of research showing that the changeover is a burden on people and their health.
and we are safeguarding our environmental, social and consumer standards and we are also safeguarding the future of our agriculture.
while low interest rates are necessary to support the recovery and have had some positive impact in the short term on financing costs and capital gains for banks, a protracted environment of very low or negative interest rates would be a symptom of persistently weak aggregate demand and overall macroeconomic conditions.
as emphasised by mario draghi a number of times, we cannot ensure a sustainable recovery with monetary tools only.
this is how positive, sustainable economic and financial development is achieved.
of course, sustainability is also a big part of this.
there are, of course, non-fossil renewable energy sources.
this is particularly true of sulphur emissions, and we are pleased that the imo has now decided that sulphur should be reduced to 0.5% worldwide.
the rural environment is characterised by small scale and small enterprises.
‒ as a member of the european parliament for the coastal region of mecklenburg-western pomerania, i am genuinely concerned about the preservation of marine biodiversity.
quick adoption of this regulation will ensure that there will be a simple and smooth transition of rules governing the sustainable exploitation of cod stocks above levels capable of producing maximum sustainable yield (msy)* in the kattegat, the north sea, the skagerrak and the eastern channel, the west of scotland and the irish sea as of 1 january 2017. this regulation amends the existing 2008 regulation to rebuild depleting cod stocks.
for example, common safety and environmental standards for ferries and vessels should be implemented and passenger rights strengthened.
water-based passenger transport plays an important role in achieving a sustainable and efficient european transport sector.
with its many rivers, waterways, estuaries, long coasts and islands, europe has a lot of potential for water transport, which is more sustainable than other modes of transport in many areas.
the report calls on the commission to take action to reduce co2 emissions in line with the agreement reached at the paris climate conference (cop 21).
the accession process has achieved important results in many fields, from the energy sector to both our economies and businesses to the talks on cyprus.
tourism is already in full swing, the climate of fear will continue to deter foreign investors, the country is being run down.
we are trying to show that trade policy can be value—based and that trade policy can make its contribution to the paris climate agreement.
it is good for the environment and it is good also for our green industries.
it is the first attempt ever in the world trade organization (wto) to cut tariffs on products that contribute to environmental protection and climate mitigation.
we will have a review mechanism where we can add new things to the list and also, as i said, we are pushing very hard to add non-tariff barriers (ntbs) and services, the people who provide the services to these environmental agreements.
the result is a major achievement on the biggest environment and health problem facing europe.
it will reduce the health impacts of air pollution, respiratory diseases and premature death by close to 50% by 2030. citizens across the whole european union will benefit enormously and these are results that we collectively can be very proud of.
it will also pave the way for ratification of the revised gothenburg protocol and for pollution reduction in the eastern european caucasus and central asian states.
it is important not only for the population of all those countries but also in terms of reducing trans-boundary pollution in the european union.
it is understandable that where pollution, and therefore health impacts, are highest more effort is needed.
we must maximise the use of european union support as well as synergies with other policies such as those on agriculture, energy and climate.
the commission regrets the deletion of methane from the scope of the directive, and we have made clear in our statement that we will continue to monitor these emissions and their effect on ambient air quality and we will take action as appropriate.
the pollutants in question cause lung cancer, heart disease, and other diseases, and in the major european cities - including brussels, where we spend a large part of our lives - the life expectancy is significantly reduced by having such high levels of air pollution.
we as the epp did not agree with the very strict values in the committee on the environment, but then in the plenary we agreed with the commission's proposal.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies.
if we can get the manure out in a more targeted way - with new technology - if we can do it better than we have done it before, then we can reduce ammonia emissions and protect health and the environment.
but if it smells less, that's good for the acceptance of agriculture, and if the pollutants go down, that's good for the environment and human health.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to reduce the pollution of the air, and it is not surprising that the commission has taken a number of measures to reduce it.
we've heard a lot about the importance of improving air quality, because we have a lot of health problems from air pollution, from various particles that can make people sick.
it's a greenhouse gas, and we really need to see how we can contain it for the sake of the climate and the oceans and the seas, which i've always fought for.
however, with the us election, we need a re-positioning of global climate leadership.
china will be useful for new technologies as well as for a global carbon market.
we also saw in marrakesh that 48 countries have decided to switch to 100% renewable energy and to organise a long-term strategy.
are we able to continue to promote renewables, or are we slowing them down and are we ambitious on energy efficiency?
that is why we want to increase the free allocation to industry in emissions trading.
i have always been - like many in my group - against tariffs at the border, against carbon border tax adjustments.
we will not be satisfied with the new american government, but we will continue to protect our industry and our climate.
we should be clear about the goal of protecting the climate and implementing the treaties the paris agreement .
i think there is a very good compromise proposal from rapporteur ian duncan on emissions trading.
it's also good for climate change.
because if industry, despite doing everything technically possible, is being driven out of europe, that's not helping the climate.
‒ i voted in favour of the report because the measures proposed will make it possible to reduce air pollution significantly by 2030. i think that this text combines ambitious objectives with a realistic approach: not a general tightening of the directive, but stricter national limits for emissions of certain pollutants such as nitrogen oxides, which are actually the main cause of air pollution in europe.
‒ i voted in favour of the report by my esteemed colleague julie girling on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants and amending directive 2003/35/ec.
‒ i voted for the report on national emissions of certain air pollutants, as it sets emission limits which have clear benefits for health and the environment.
‒ i abstained on the european parliament resolution on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants and amending directive 2003/35/ec.
this directive concerns pollutants and emissions.
i am opposed to the regulation of so-called greenhouse gases.
it also completely ignores the enormous risks of the continuing low interest rate environment.
it also completely ignores the enormous risks of the continuing low interest rate environment.
it also completely ignores the enormous risks of the continuing low interest rate environment.
it also completely ignores the enormous risks of the continuing low interest rate environment.
it also completely ignores the enormous risks of the continuing low interest rate environment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
‒ we must not burden agriculture with further over-regulation if this does not bring any health or environmental benefits.
however, i welcome the call for the commission to provide research and innovation and a sustainable and cost-effective alternative in the field of plant protection.
although there are concerns regarding its effect on the environment as well as human and animal health this should be subject to regulation by the member states.
but i want to make another point: it's about climate policy for women, and i don't mean the weather.
climate policy for women is about the social climate in which women operate.
the social climate in the united states, for example, is being poisoned by the sexist trump.
in europe, it is the right, the far right and the far, far right that are poisoning the climate against women.
they create a social climate, a social climate that makes violence against women possible.
and i think we need a climate pact for women to finally improve the social climate in europe.
so please make sure that not only is the money spent, but that structural reforms are undertaken in the country to create sustainable prospects for the people.
as a result of the agreement, pension funds will have to consider the risk of environmental, social and governance risks in their investment decisions and documents.
only well-organised and sustainable trophy hunting has a profitable effect on nature and people.
this report highlights the fact that smes are finding it difficult to meet the growing challenges successfully, due to the increasing environmental constraints and the sometimes unfair competitive pressure of quasi-monopoly market structures.
it is precisely this policy which promotes sustainable forms of mobility, which above all require legal certainty.
but let me stress this point: market opening must come with a clear, fair and stable regulatory environment.
written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on european energy security (2016/2994 ((rsp)).
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not where does our energy come from?
that is why we need to have large energy storage facilities.
this means that we could produce a lot more energy ourselves and then we wouldn't have to import that energy.
if we do that, we can generate significantly more energy ourselves.
we do not need to import them, and that is a very important contribution to our energy security.
– mr president, honourable members, the eu’s energy security is a top priority for the commission.
it is not only considered in a time of supply crisis; it has become an integral part of the eu’s energy policy and is firmly enshrined in the energy union strategy.
it has to at least comply with the main principles of the third energy package and fully respect the applicable rules of eu environmental and public procurement legislation.
on the topic of the overall situation in the gas sector and climate change, the eu gas markets have been experiencing important changes in the last two to three years and are exposed to a lot of uncertainty regarding future consumption levels.
yet, thanks to the increasing energy efficiency and continued development of renewables, the sluggish recovery of the eu economy gas consumption is likely to pick up by 2020. on the fourth topic, the winter package of 30 november: in july 2015, the commission proposed a revision of the energy labelling directive, and it will soon present a comprehensive review of the renewable energy efficiency and energy performance of buildings directives.
but energy security also refers to the electricity sector itself, where security of supply requires us to develop a more integrated approach based on common methods and rules, as well as regional cooperation.
last, but not least, energy poverty: eu legislation clearly assigns responsibility for protecting vulnerable consumers and addressing energy poverty to member states.
however, the commission has been taking action to assist member states to meet their obligations under eu law by identifying best practices and supporting the exchange of information on how to alleviate energy poverty in the most cost effective way.
as announced in the consumer communication, the commission will further consider how to improve the eu-wide data collection and monitoring of energy poverty.
finally, let me stress one more time that the commission is putting a lot of effort into strengthening the frameworks and concrete projects to enhance the eu’s energy security, in full consistency with the priorities identified by the energy union strategy.
we welcome the support of the european parliament for our work in this area; this is crucial in order to ensure a swift implementation of the energy union strategy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
at the same time, such an action plan must not be directed against legal hunting, which is already highly regulated and contributes to biodiversity.
there is a need to establish a coherent and sustainable framework in which innovation, consumer protection and fair competition are guaranteed.
we will therefore now wait patiently for the legal basis for the european fund for sustainable development to be established.
i believe that we need an eu budget that is really able to tackle the causes of displacement, that responds to the paris climate agreement - which is not the case now - and where there is more investment in the ecological transformation and also in the eu 2020 strategy.
one last point: it was clear from the start that if we need a new model, we really need new own resources, such as the financial transaction tax, the environmental tax, the co2 tax or the diesel tax.
commissioner, you know that i recognise many positive aspects of your revised trade strategy, particularly the increased importance of fair trade and the enforceability of binding sustainability chapters.
we have made a political commitment to build a privileged partnership with you because we believe that it is time to translate in a sustainable, tangible and diversified way the strategic and irreversible nature of our relations.
‒ i voted against the 2017 budget draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017. not only will the budget increase by 1.7% from 2016, but also it continues to waste billions of euros on failed wealth redistribution such as on agricultural and cohesion.
member states have the right to determine the conditions for the use of their energy resources.
‒ i did not support the eu parliament resolution on access to energy in developing countries.
the resolution is a peculiar collection of ideas, woven together by a belief in man-made climate change and the desire to transfer the regulatory strangulation resulting from this belief to developing countries and to take away their last chance to industrialize.
the resolution also calls on the eu to take gender aspects into account in all energy policy measures, especially for women with their special needs.
the following amendments were proposed to this draft: monday: no amendments tuesday: the united left group requests that a debate on the report by mr corbett on the 'general revision of parliament's rules of procedure' be put on the agenda for the morning as the second item after the commission's statement on the 'clean energy for all' package.
this is essential to meet our objective of smart and low-carbon transport mobility in europe and to make rail competitive again.
the commission is taking a really big leap forward with the clean energy for all package, and it is a good thing.
the commission's approach to putting consumers at the centre of the energy transition is right.
they must be given the opportunity to play an equally active part in the energy transition.
if we design the energy union right now, citizens will see the benefits immediately.
the commission's proposals for future energy policy are ambitious but they are achievable.
however, two criticisms: firstly, i still believe that the impact of this package on emissions trading has not been sufficiently taken into account.
what are the implications of the renewable energy directive?
what is the effect of the energy conservation imperative?
how does all this affect co2 emissions and thus the price of allowances?
we need an estimate of the overall impact of energy-related european and national legislation on emissions trading.
secondly, i believe that the compulsion to save energy is out of date.
it will all be much faster than we think today - green energy also in the heat market.
but we also need to assess the impact of our actions on emissions trading, and we should work on energy saving with indicative targets instead of compulsory ones.
if we want to have cheap prices because we see energy poverty as a problem, then we cannot just keep on giving gas.
if we want to ensure that security of supply is increased and that the impact on the climate is reasonable, then we need an overall approach and we must take into account - and this is what i find interesting in the approach - that the different measures are also interrelated.
if emissions trading is to be such a central element, then - as mr pieper has just rightly said - we should pay more attention here too to the effects that we are actually having with the other measures.
there are some interesting hints, for example, the question of how we are going to deal with the priority of renewable energy in the future.
i have to say, madam president, i think the overall package is ambitious enough, it is balanced and fair, and excessive demands, as some of them have been made here, have no realistic background, because in the end we also have to deal with the responsibility of the member states for the energy mix.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to congratulate the commission on the winter package and, above all, on the energy efficiency part.
the commission has really put energy efficiency first.
energy efficiency is the cheap part of climate policy.
i would like to take up what bendt bendtsen said: if we invest in energy efficiency, we can save a lot of money on fossil fuels.
if we can invest at least some of this money in european industry and crafts which help us to move energy efficiency forward, it is certainly better spent there.
i have a question on the renewable energy proposal and i would like us to work together to solve it: we have a binding target of 27%.
the path is relatively clear for energy efficiency, but not so for renewables.
and i would like above all that the countries that invest in renewable energy should be recognised in the event that we fail to meet the binding target.
man-made climate change is not a fact, it's a scientific hypothesis.
my party therefore categorically rejects all projects aimed at reducing so-called climate gases.
we need not an energy transition, not green energy, but a rational energy policy, geared to consumers and based on a market economy.
the reason for the agreement is that existing regimes have not yet improved the vulnerability of fish stocks and the difficulty of defining a sustainable fishing sector.
i am very concerned about the environment, but this report goes too far.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
we need to see that development creates security, but that only with stability, social justice, democracy and the rule of law can we stabilize and advance development, sustainable development, which is necessary.
mr brok, sensible development aid, sustainable development aid is different!
i think paragraph 40 of the report makes it particularly clear that we as europeans must take a sustained approach to tackling the causes of instability and forced migration, such as poverty, inequality of economic opportunities, armed conflict, poor governance and climate change.
clean energy for all, youth programmes, these are examples of how we can then also mitigate other problems, such as migration.
and this is an exercise i believe we are making now, with a strong focus on africa because africa is our neighbour, is demographically growing as we all know, is a security but also an economic challenge for all of us and also an opportunity, and this is why i believe next year will be really an african year for us, not only because we have the summit with africa but also because we are looking at ways in which we can invest in security, in economic development, in digital, in energy, in human rights and governance, in all sectors far beyond the migration-only angle.
i can confirm that the commission will very closely monitor and actively support this important process with the objective of ensuring that the issues related to the recruitment processes in uzbekistan’s cotton manufacturing are addressed in an effective, lasting and sustainable way.
i am convinced that a good business climate and respect for the rule of law are essential conditions to develop bilateral trade and investment relations.
ecuador insisted that the first step was to fight poverty, to enshrine human, social and environmental standards in the constitution, and to launch an independent economic policy and development that is both resilient and more sustainable.
this is in view of the challenge that ecuador still has the us dollar as its currency and thus has only limited monetary and fiscal controls to change the global economic environment.
the same could be said for mining activities, as they threaten the habitat and traditional ways of life of indigenous peoples and the environment, all of which are protected by ecuador's modern constitution.
in our accompanying resolution, we in the european parliament made our agreement conditional on a declaration by the government of ecuador on the preservation and expansion of the social and environmental progress made under the correa government and called for further progress in strengthening democratic standards and their practical implementation.
let me put this in context: if the agreement is not reached by 1 january, it will be seen as a failure by the very political forces which want to turn the wheel of social and environmental policy backwards.
it is clear that, as in the case of colombia and peru, parliament's activities have brought about some improvements in democratic, environmental and labour law.
we asked colombia and peru to make a declaration, a road map, and now we have a plan from ecuador to improve the situation in the field of labour and environmental law.
and this has to be done in a very partnership-based, dialogue-based process so that we can partner on issues of free speech, issues of workers' rights and environmental standards in ways that are for the benefit of people.
we have become partners with ecuador and have radically upgraded the nature of our bilateral relationship and our coinciding visions for sustainable development.
this is because both of us are committed to a comprehensive vision of sustainable and inclusive development and the improvement of human rights.
ecuador is committed to complying with core labour standards and international environmental agreements.
our parliament and its committee on trade have the responsibility, as has already been said, of continuously evaluating the economic and socio-environmental consequences of the agreement over the next few years.
so how do we create collective agreements that enable fair trade, that enable social, environmental and human rights standards, and thus make a collective contribution to development?
climate change and related crop variability have been addressed i.e.
the new ambitious external investment plan and the european fund for sustainable development will be key.
in order to meet the challenges of maritime transport, some shortcomings in the sustainable transport and logistics chain need to be addressed.
the report also provides an impetus to find sustainable and long-term solutions to current problems such as violence and persecution, based on international human rights standards.
the new programme for greece has been designed to address these challenges, paving the way for sustainable economic growth and job creation.
if the new programme is fully implemented, greece will have come a long way in securing sustainable growth and job creation.
one such critical example is the roll-out of a guaranteed minimum income scheme, or ‘social solidarity income’, to improve the effectiveness, sustainability and fairness of the greek social protection system.
overall, the reform promoted through the economic adjustment programmes have aimed to help greece to build a more solid basis for growth and job creation founded on sustainable public finances, a stable financial system and a more competitive and dynamic economy.
the goal is to establish a strong and more sustainable social partnership, striking an optimal balance between protection and flexibility, providing certainty to companies and adequate safeguards to workers.
the gains in competitiveness of recent years must be secured, ensuring a pathway to sustainable growth and job creation.
the 2015 statistics show that most citizens turned to parliament on issues such as the environment, justice, the internal market or fundamental rights.
the aim is a customs environment that combines the facilitation of trade with a safe and secure supply chain, while also managing new challenges such as evolving business practices.