but it is totally unacceptable that this change in the tests should be used to allow higher levels of nox particulate matter emissions.
the proposal is also directly counterproductive in view of the fact that we are currently in the process of drafting legislation, the air package legislation, which also aims to reduce air pollution in the eu.
we all do this because we know that hundreds of thousands of european citizens die prematurely every year because of our air pollution problems.
we are protesting against the proposal because it is leading to more air pollution, not less.
first of all, a continuing development of the energy union.
central to this is to ensure continued development of renewable energy sources and linking the electricity market of europe better and closer, to bring costs down for european citizens and companies.
we are losing good, sustainable jobs and we are losing important income taxes.
‒ the approval of the amendments will be an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment against transboundary air pollution.
‒ the approval of the amendments will be an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment against transboundary air pollution.
‒ thank you to my good colleague, mr demesmaeker, for his work on the report on safeguarding biodiversity in the eu, which i am voting for.
the commission's own assessment of the state of biodiversity in the eu is discouraging and it is therefore important that further attention be paid to this issue.
i welcome the rapporteur's comments that agriculture contributes to biodiversity, which is a very important point to make.
when we talk about biodiversity, the diversity of national challenges should also be reflected in such a list.
‒ unfortunately, the mid-term evaluation shows that the eu has a long way to go before it achieves the targets set in 2011 in the 2020 biodiversity strategy.
it is completely irrelevant to spend so much energy on pleasing an old-fashioned, unimaginative industry instead of taking account of the health of the citizens.
‒ the draft commission implementing decision is not in conformity with union law, as it is not compatible with the objective of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 and regulation (ec) no 396/2005 of the european parliament and of the council, which, in accordance with the general principles laid down in regulation (ec) no 178/2002 of the european parliament and of the council, is to ensure a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests in relation to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market.
‒ i ask the commission to submit a new legislative proposal based on the treaty on the functioning of the european union amending regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 and taking into account the frequently expressed national concerns, which do not only concern issues related to the safety of gmos for health or the environment.
‒ i ask the commission to submit a new legislative proposal based on the treaty on the functioning of the european union amending regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 taking into account the frequently expressed national concerns, which do not only concern issues related to the safety aspects of gmos in relation to health or the environment.
i have to say, madam president, i have today voted no to blocking the new rules on emissions from passenger cars and light commercial vehicles agreed by the commission and the member states.
i think it is important that we introduce as soon as possible that car emissions are to be tested on the road and not in laboratories.
it is clear that new testing methods require adaptation in industry, but here in the european parliament we must maintain an ambitious line to limit emissions.
therefore, the early introduction of the new tests means that we will be able to reduce emissions considerably.
delaying and postponing the introduction will mean that the environment and human health will continue to suffer.
it's not sustainable.
it's not sustainable.
it's not sustainable.
- we have to take care of the environment.
only in this way can we reduce the harmful effects of such emissions.
the commission has already proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
to save this we need a future-proof agriculture, where investment is made in the best possible environmental technologies, more jobs and a better economy.
it's not sustainable.
‒ all households in europe should have access to heat and energy all year round.
however, how households' access to heat and energy is financed is a national matter, as the formulation of social policy in general is a competence of the member states under the treaty.
the european parliament should therefore not be deciding whether private households themselves or the public sector are responsible for the costs of heating and energy.
we have therefore failed to vote for or against the idea that the costs of energy during the winter are the responsibility of the public and that the commission should reduce energy costs for poor households.
‒ all households in europe should have access to heat and energy all year round.
however, how households' access to heat and energy is financed is a national matter, as the formulation of social policy in general is a competence of the member states under the treaty.
the european parliament should therefore not be deciding whether private households themselves or the public sector are responsible for the costs of heating and energy.
we have therefore failed to vote for or against the idea that the costs of energy during the winter are the responsibility of the public and that the commission should reduce energy costs for poor households.
‒ all households in europe should have access to heat and energy all year round.
however, how households' access to heat and energy is financed is a national matter, as the formulation of social policy in general is a competence of the member states under the treaty.
the european parliament should therefore not be deciding whether private households themselves or the public sector are responsible for the costs of heating and energy.
we have therefore failed to vote for or against the idea that the costs of energy during the winter are the responsibility of the public and that the commission should reduce energy costs for poor households.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, by the end of this year we will have laid down the tracks for the european energy union.
these are exciting and ambitious times as the energy union is one of the biggest and most important projects in the history of the european union.
why is it that we are creating this energy union?
to create a well—functioning energy market, to attract capital, to create growth and jobs, to push the sustainable transition agenda much further – and, not least, to be less dependent on russian gas and supplies from mr putin.
therefore i find it very hard to identify any economic, environmental or political arguments for nord stream 2. i find it very hard to see any positive perspectives for anyone other than mr putin in this.
if not, we risk putting the entire energy union in jeopardy, and that would be a total disaster.
mr president, nord stream 2 is both unnecessary, unwanted and dangerous: unnecessary because current capacity is nowhere near fully utilised; unwanted because we know that our central and eastern european member states are worried about this plan for good reason; dangerous even, because it will only strengthen mr putin’s energy hold on europe.
the energy union should strengthen europe, strengthen renewables, strengthen european cooperation on energy and lead us forward in a carbon-free future.
is the project even in line with the goal of the energy union?
we have to become less dependent on outside energy.
we must give more weight to other sources of energy, such as solar and wind, while at the same time using the energy we have in europe more efficiently.
energy efficiency and renewable energy are better than putting money in putin's coffers.
‒ currently, 50 million eu citizens are living in energy poverty.
many citizens are stuck on outdated energy contracts, which often require high termination fees if switching to a cheaper provider.
i believe that energy companies should provide consumers with information on the cheapest rates and drop expensive charges for switching suppliers.
it is essential, however, that we have a clear definition of what non-tariff barriers cover, so that they do not include, for example, labour rights, environmental protection and consumer rights.
‒ the agreement commits the eu and africa to promoting the sustainable growth of african agriculture.
such an agreement is necessary if we are to secure a sustainable and future-proof solution for the african economy.
‒ to achieve financial stability and sustainable growth, it is important that we can effectively control and regulate the financial sector.
however, it is important that we also tackle the major problem of food waste.
the report provides a balanced approach, focusing on innovation and food waste.
it is important, however, that we do not compromise on the requirement that the philippines respect human rights, labour rights, social rights and environmental protection.
it is important, however, that we do not compromise on the requirement that the philippines respect human rights, labour rights, social rights and environmental protection.
it is important, however, that we do not compromise on the requirement that the philippines respect human rights, labour rights, social rights and environmental protection.
the agreement introduces a series of measures to ensure that the industry remains competitive, sustainable and future-proof.
mr president, my speech is on the report and the progress report on renewable energy.
i could have wished for more, but the 27% renewable energy target for 2030 is a great commitment and shows our investors that the eu and its member states have ambitions and will deliver on them.
i would like to stress that the epp fully supports the diversification of the eu's energy sources with renewable energy at the centre to achieve a more sustainable energy mix in europe and deliver on our agreed objectives.
we recognise and support renewable energy as a prerequisite for achieving sustainability, growth, competitiveness and creating more european jobs.
in the ppe we believe it is important to find long-term and sustainable solutions.
we are working to make renewable energy work on market terms and we are reducing the cost of renewable energy.
this is necessary to bring down energy prices, benefit european businesses and energy consumers.
this includes respect for the member states' competences to determine the energy mix and the need for cost reduction and reasonable market conditions, including the gradual phasing out of state aid for market-ready technologies.
energy efficiency can benefit us all.
we can reduce our dependence on fossil fuels, reduce our dependence on imports from russia and provide cheaper energy for consumers and businesses.
it is not in line with the objectives of the energy union and we need to show the world, and not least the eu, that we are united in sustainable solutions and that the eu must be a leader in both energy efficiency and renewable energy.
they bring money to my home country with their large exports and at the same time make energy cheaper for the consumer.
and so, the experience shows that energy efficiency is both economically viable and greener and cheaper for all of us.
we must deliver the policy solutions europe needs: an effective fight against tax evasion and tax avoidance, against social dumping and wage suppression, for ambitious and binding environmental and climate targets, for strong cooperation on cross-border issues and real investment in europe's economy that will create growth and jobs at fair wages and on contractual terms.
because of the energy labelling rules adopted in 2010, which we are now strengthening with our debate today, and because of the strict energy requirements for industry adopted in this parliament, by 2020 we will have saved the equivalent of the entire annual energy consumption of italy.
each household in the eu will save on average about dkk 3 500 on its energy bill - a year, mind you!
it is the value for the environment, for the climate and for the average european citizen, whether he or she is danish, italian, czech or portuguese.
we are now making it even easier to protect the environment and the climate and to save on electricity bills.
‒ energy efficiency labelling is a major european success.
thanks to stricter eu energy efficiency requirements and the requirement to be labelled with the familiar stickers on televisions, refrigerators, washing machines, etc., we will have saved the equivalent of all of italy's energy consumption by 2020. but even if the scheme is already a success, it can easily be improved.
this will make it even easier to make the best product choice for the environment, the climate and your own pocketbook.
having regard to the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i am not sure that this is the case.
on 15 june, a very large majority of the parliament's environment, food and public health committee voted to reject the european commission's request to approve health claims on caffeine.
in order to have the proposed health claims on a product, a relatively large amount of caffeine is required and, apart from coffee, it is almost only energy drinks that contain sufficient amounts of caffeine to use the health claim.
so this is really a question of allowing health claims on energy drinks.
there are two reasons why we do not want to be part of that: one is that energy drinks contain large amounts of sugar.
the second is that these energy drinks are consumed primarily by teenagers.
energy drinks contain up to 27 grams of sugar per can, far more than the who's recommended daily intake of sugar.
moreover, it is largely young people, even children under the age of 12, who drink these energy drinks, and this despite the fact that we are fully aware that energy drinks are not recommended for children or for young people or for pregnant women.
furthermore, studies of who drinks these energy drinks show that they are largely children and young people.
i would like to stress that the committee on the environment is not proposing a ban on energy drinks.
a health claim would mislead our children and our young people into thinking that energy drinks are a healthier choice than they are.
although energy drinks are not in principle targeted at children and young people, they are consumed by children and young people.
thus, a health claim on energy drinks would be in direct violation of article 3 of the health claims act.
the committee on the environment also proposes that we should encourage member states to look more closely at the way in which energy drinks are sold and marketed.
i would like to thank my colleagues on the committee on the environment for supporting so unequivocally the rejection of the four specific health claims.
energy drinks would then have been in a category which, due to its high sugar content, would not have been allowed to use health claims.
but regardless, it is good to see a large majority in the committee on the environment backing it.
there is no doubt that both reports play an important role in our joint efforts to achieve more sustainable development.
the creation of a better internal energy market is needed.
we need to use the energy we have much better.
we are importing much more energy into europe than we need.
cooling and heating is one area where we can do extremely well in using the energy that is available.
the money could be put to much better use if we prioritized energy efficiency more.
when we talk about energy efficiency, of course, it is a red thread that i would like to see carried through the proposals that are out there and i hope that it can be implemented in the coming legislation.
investing more in energy efficiency is also the best way to reduce co2.
in addition to saving our energy and using it better, it is also a place where we can create a lot of jobs and a lot of growth in the future.
we can expect a flood of energy legislation in the near future.
we need a progressive and ambitious approach, and it is therefore good that we now have a strategy for heating and cooling - it is high time, because we know that the energy consumption of european citizens is spent on heating or cooling their homes.
otherwise, we risk a silo mentality, where we fail to optimise our systems and thereby waste opportunities that we could otherwise have exploited.
we must improve the integration of renewable energy into district heating.
when we talk about energy efficiency, we should not just talk about isolation, we should discuss how an interaction between our technologies can ensure maximum benefits from the least possible energy.
the ambition must be a coherent energy system for the benefit of all of us.
that is the crux of the scandal: people are dying and the environment is suffering.
let us learn from this scandal, let us build a new system where people and the environment come first.
– mr president, it is now clear that last friday’s agreement by eu environment ministers will bring forward the ratification of the paris agreement on climate change.
indeed, the global nature of the effort is made manifest by the 189 national climate plans which have been put forward.
this evening we are debating the report of the committee on the environment on the implementation of the regulation on food contact materials.
that is why we in the committee on the environment are proposing that the european commission should come forward with a proposal for a revision of the current legislation on food contact materials.
and these substances also harm our environment.
and we are demanding that the member states reduce the amount of pollution in the air.
it's important for public health, and it's important for the environment.
we should have done a lot about air pollution.
the air pollution is serious and we have to make some demands for the member states to take action.
so i am happy to say yes to the air package, but i also hope that the commission will take further initiatives in other areas so that we can really eliminate all air pollution.
i have to say, madam president, cop 22 in marrakesh clearly marks that the paris climate agreement is here to stay.
this is both good and necessary, because climate change is affecting millions of people and the environment.
it's the only way we can solve climate change.
‒ social democracy is committed to the protection of workers' rights, the highest environmental, food and public health standards and the right to legislate freely.
‒ social democracy is committed to the protection of workers' rights, the highest environmental, food and public health standards and the right to legislate freely.
‒ social democracy is in favour of the platform economy and fully recognises the benefits that online platforms in the transport sector can bring in terms of, for example, reduced climate and environmental impact and increased flexibility.
‒ social democracy is in favour of the platform economy and fully recognises the benefits that online platforms in the transport sector can bring in terms of, for example, reduced climate and environmental impact and increased flexibility.
‒ social democracy is in favour of the platform economy and fully recognises the benefits that online platforms in the transport sector can bring in terms of, for example, reduced climate and environmental impact and increased flexibility.
it will not be long before we are voting in this house on the ets (emissions trading scheme) for shipping companies.
we now have a unique opportunity to accelerate europe's transition from black to green energy while creating hundreds of thousands of jobs, investing massively in research and innovation and doing something unprecedented for the climate.
we need to take global leadership in renewable energy and energy efficiency and ensure that legislation is optimised and implemented for the benefit of all european citizens and not least the climate.
energy policy has a direct impact on our security policy and our security of supply, as we are unfortunately becoming increasingly dependent on gas from putin's russia and oil from the middle east.
in addition, our decisions affect both our environment and our climate.
by making better use of european energy, we reduce our dependence on imported energy and are less affected by geopolitical turmoil.
let us now live up to the slogan 'clean energy for all'!
it is good to see that energy efficiency is being put in the forefront.
there are a lot of jobs and employment in this policy, especially in relation to energy efficiency and energy renewal.
it's in different jobs there are also jobs for people in blue suits in energy renovation!
when i read the commission proposal on acer, i see words such as ‘may’ and ‘recommend’, but if we want a truly interconnected and sustainable european energy market that effectively does away with transmission bottlenecks, those words must be changed to ‘shall’ and ‘decide’ in a number of places.
europe needs an energy regulator.