kyrgyzstan needs to be persuaded to move forward with reforms to improve both its economic environment and the human rights situation, and the continuation of the tariff preferences scheme could motivate them to move forward.
the mutual assistance clause gives us a singular opportunity to establish the grounds for a strong and sustainable european defence union, to be ready to face the security threats and challenges.
a commission was formed to investigate recent car emissions manipulation.
ratification of the protocol is important to better protect human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution.
the protocol provides for stricter emission limits for certain major sources of fixed pollution and a more flexible transitional regime.
the ratification of the amendments to the protocol is important to better protect human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution.
the amended protocol includes seven new substances, updates the requirements for several substances and limits for emissions of polychlorinated dibenzodioxins and polychlorinated dibenzofurans (pcdd/pcdfs) from different sources, and adds polychlorinated biphenyls (pcbs) to the list of substances subject to annual emission limits and reporting obligations.
ensuring the sustainability of the european biodiversity is a promise we have to make for the future generations.
preserving biodiversity in tensely populated area such as the eu requires efforts from all sides, from politicians on all levels, to companies, to agricultural and forestry sectors to individuals.
achieving the 2020 targets of the eu biodiversity strategy should be one of the political priorities.
in order to generate synergies and engage all sectors in achieving those targets, one of the crucial issues is to boost innovation and especially invest into ecological engineering.
biodiversity is vital to human health, well-being and the economy and is under pressure worldwide and in europe.
the eu has put forward a number of strategies to conserve biodiversity.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's environmental legislation and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's environmental legislation.
we need to link nature more closely with society, create sustainable economic growth and integrate biodiversity protection into other policies.
the car industry is a major source of environmental pollution, so the sector must take responsibility for human health.
the recovery of the economic environment in europe requires structural reforms, the competitiveness of the economy and a credible environment that attracts investment.
firstly, parliament quite clearly asked for the business environment for growth and innovation in the data-driven economy to be improved, and secondly, we also called on the commission in the digital single market report to carry out a broad and transparent review of big data.
member states should pay attention to the creation of a safe and non-discriminatory environment for female refugees and asylum seekers, as women are more likely to be victims of violence.
the report regulates the sulphur content of certain liquid fuels in order to reduce harmful air pollution.
sustainable reforms to address systematic values in the areas of the rule of law, public administration, protection of fundamental rights and media freedom, as well as the fight against corruption, continue to remain central for the country’s path towards the eu.
however, a number of areas, such as the fight against corruption, poverty reduction and improving the political climate, need to be continuously promoted.
although the concentrations of glyphosate remain below legal thresholds, it still poses a possible risk to human and animal health and to environment.
we are protecting the fundamental right of every individual to preserve his or her privacy in the digital ocean, the digital environment.
this environment is developing very quickly.
the discharge for the 2014 budget of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy has to be postponed as the budgetary activities have not been finalised.
at a time of russia’s increasing provocations, the kremlin tries to demonstrate that the eu still needs it; that we can be further disorientated, that they can make fun of our energy union, and that they can weaken and economically isolate ukraine.
– i agree with what my honourable colleague mr kelam said on the matter, and i would like to add that reliance on russia’s gas supply is extremely short-sighted because it is not sustainable in the long term.
it would be hypocritical and contradictory on our part to condemn the war in ukraine and the annexation of crimea on one hand while on the other we further increase our own dependence on russia in the field of energy.
russia wields energy as a weapon without hesitation, which is why we should oppose doubling nord stream’s capacity, both out of solidarity for ukraine but also to avoid ending up in a similarly precarious situation.
the eu has an interest in the tuna fishing area there, but the agreement also aims to develop a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible use of fish stocks, and to support the sustainable development of the liberian economy and the region.
the aim is to provide eu vessels with fishing opportunities in mauritian waters and to contribute to a sustainable fisheries policy and a more responsible use of fisheries resources.
mountain areas could contribute to eu objectives, for example by providing green jobs and renewable energy sources.
the call is for an eu action plan for mountain regions to contribute to their economic and social development in a sustainable way.
his last recipe was to impose a two-day working week for public servants to save energy.
i think he should follow this original solution by a personal example: establish a zero-hour working week for himself, thereby saving the energy of his countrymen and clearing the way for national reconciliation and reforms.
cohesion policy has the potential to increase jobs, growth and energy efficiency and must therefore be used effectively and in a timely manner.
it is realistic because we are proposing the changes that are needed to create a system that is sustainable and equitable.
greater cooperation and coherence between different policy areas and eu actors is essential to ensure the integration of the three pillars of sustainable development into the eu's internal and external policies.
i think this quote sums up very much what digital innovation is all about: doing it better and finding new ways to solve problems, from access to services and goods to environment and mobility.
– madam president, this morning one speaker made a very interesting parallel between the industrial revolution and the digital revolution: that the industrial revolution brought many good things, but it also brought challenges like air pollution.
– mr president, the opinion from the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco) strongly welcomes the commission’s proposed initiative on a new deal for energy consumers.
active and empowered consumers should be the main drivers of a competitive european energy market.
also, we must make data available for app developers to help consumers to manage their energy consumption.
one important point on consumers that we should not forget is that ‘active consumer’ does not mean a ‘presumer’, and not every consumer wants to be a presumer, so it should remain up to them what level of engagement they want in their energy consumption.
consumers must be able to obtain adequate information on the cheapest energy prices, to compare different offers better and, of course, to switch suppliers quickly, easily and free of charge.
the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states.
– aside from efficiency gains, the raison d'être of our energy union is to guarantee security of supply, in other words energy security.
russia has demonstrated on countless occasions that it is not a reliable partner to the european union, and that it does not hesitate to wield energy as a political weapon.
the aim is to inform energy consumers about the opportunities of the energy market and thus also help them to save money.
consumers must be able to obtain adequate information on the cheapest energy prices, to compare different offers better and, of course, to switch suppliers quickly, easily and free of charge.
the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states.
‒ social tariffs are a good tool in addressing the causes of energy poverty.
lastly, the report underlines mismatch of skills with rapidly developing digital sphere – action has to start now, from children to elderly, boosting digital literacy is key to provide sustainable and innovative european single market.
the world's growing population is creating a greater demand for food, but there is less and less land available for agriculture, and other factors are affecting the natural environment.
in order to enable farmers to continue to produce food in a sustainable way, it is necessary to promote technology, innovation and to make their benefits more accessible to all farmers.
it is therefore necessary to accelerate and encourage innovation and entrepreneurship in agriculture in order to keep pace with such consumption without increasing the ecological footprint of agricultural production.
– while it is important to future-proof our security and defence strategies in the field of space capabilities, we must not forget to secure ourselves in terms of more basic necessities such as energy.
energy security has to be a core priority for the eu.
a reliable supply of energy will ensure not only our survival but also our ability to conduct research and innovate in the field of security and defence.
doing so would be extremely detrimental to our energy security since russia has demonstrated on countless occasions that it is not a reliable partner for the european union and that it does not hesitate to use energy as a political weapon.
the solution to our current predicament lies in creating more effective energy interconnections within the eu, as well as diversifying our sources of supply.
it is important that the eu continues to support the country in its fight against poverty, in its response to climate change and in its respect for human rights and the rule of law.
doing so would be extremely detrimental to our energy security since russia has demonstrated on countless occasions that it is not a reliable partner to the european union, and that it does not hesitate in wielding energy as a political weapon.
we should be creating more effective energy interconnections within the eu, as well as diversifying our sources.
the eu must now think in a balanced way about how to bring the eu closer to its citizens, how to ensure the promotion of the eu's common values, stability and sustainability, and how to make the eu a functioning community that is able to respond actively, quickly and effectively to the crises that affect it.
– regardless of the instability and uncertainty created by the uk referendum, we must not forget to deal with other pressing matters of crucial importance, such as energy security of supply.
doing so would be extremely detrimental to our energy security since russia has demonstrated on countless occasions that it is not a reliable partner to the european union, and that it does not hesitate in wielding energy as a political weapon.
the directive shall be supplemented in the light of new technologies, in particular with a view to protecting human health and the environment.
to improve the economic situation, issues such as the protection of human rights, gender equality, good governance and sustainable development must be linked to economic activity and member states must make greater efforts in these areas.
in addition to being an important energy partner for the eu, it is important to enhance cooperation between the eu and azerbaijan in other areas.
the report also addresses the privacy of personal data and the readiness of member states to ensure a safe environment for online transactions.
the purpose of the energy label is to help citizens understand the environmental impact of products.
however, the original directive needs to be supplemented to ensure greater energy efficiency and to include ict products and also to analyse their environmental impact.
cooperation will be pursued in areas such as search and rescue, border and customs controls, fisheries control, maritime safety and security and environmental protection.
mr president, the wholesale electricity markets were designed for a different time – a time where there were no renewable energies, or there was much less renewable energy and technology.
this is important for the market participants as well as energy consumers.
security, interconnectivity, inter-operability and energy efficiency form the core of european energy market, and we have to further work towards achieving a fully integrated european energy market that would be built on innovative approaches, ensuring cross-border competition and empowering consumers.
this will ensure diversification of supply chains, make our systems less dependent on external energy resources and also increase conscious energy consumption.
lastly, a functioning internal energy market is only viable when member states play by the same rules, act in solidarity and ensure a swift implementation of needed measures.
in conclusion, as you can see, in an effort to find the right balance between, on the one hand, a sustainable budget in times of budgetary constraints throughout europe and, on the other hand, financing essential political priorities, the council has identified areas where savings are reasonable and necessary.
in doing so we have followed the council’s budget guidelines for 2017. let me express my hope and confidence that we will find a common path to securing a reasonable and sustainable budget that will bring maximum benefits for all our fellow citizens.
we were surprised to see that there are proposed cuts for some large—scale projects for which there is very high demand, like transport and energy, galileo and copernicus.
the agreement should contribute to enhancing sustainable economic growth and deepening interregional trade.
by becoming a party to the convention and participating in its activities, the eu will contribute to the promotion of environmental policy and international trade regulation, and to the wider engagement in the policies of sustainable development under the un 2030 agenda.
it also points out that in order to achieve an enabling environment for business development and to increase the potential for job creation, national and european policies need to focus on skills, their scarcity and non-compliance or on the outflow of educated and skilled people and the preferential position of multinational enterprises.
the decision to conclude the paris agreement sends a clear signal that tackling climate change is a priority for the eu.
the paris agreement sets out the important objectives to which the eu will jointly commit itself when taking action to combat climate change.
the renewed agreement sets the overarching objective of combating poverty and inequality, calls for new sustainable development directions and stronger monitoring mechanisms.
the eu produces 88 million tonnes of food waste a year, while 12% of the world's population is hungry.
it is essential to adapt food systems in order to end food loss and food waste.
eu member states and the commission must also focus on the developmental relevance of policies and assess the impact of trade, agriculture, energy and other policies on global food security.
scrutiny and monitoring on how efficiently member states incorporate union law to their legislation is a cornerstone of well-functioning eu and by that closing the gaps between member states in various aspects – economic, environmental, regional, and social and so on.
– having an adequate strategy for liquefied natural gas and gas storage is of key importance to europe’s energy security.
russia has demonstrated on countless occasions that it is not a reliable partner to the eu and does not hesitate to wield energy as a political weapon.
it would be extremely irresponsible to jeopardise our citizens’ wellbeing by subjecting their energy security to the whims of the kremlin.
it is important to accelerate the establishment of energy links between eu member states and to diversify the different sources of energy, which would help reduce dependence on suppliers outside the eu.
the report takes account of the economic situation of the member states and the principles of sustainable development, and focuses on the less connected areas of central and eastern europe and on improving the situation, including road and rail transport, inland waterways, seaports and airports.
it is true that, when we look at the capacity to operate in a very tight budgetary environment in member states, we know the restrictions that unanimity places on us when we go forward for the revision.
greener because it includes some targeted and specific increases for sustainable programmes such as life+.
the agreement also provides for guarantees for the protection of consumer rights, workers' rights, the environment and health, and for cooperation to promote these in third countries.
in the current review, it is important to adapt the framework to enable the eu to deal with budgetary challenges and thus ensure a realistic and sustainable eu budget.
the global security environment has deteriorated considerably, bringing about different threats.
the budget for iter and the development of fusion energy for 2014 has been implemented and can be considered approved.
commissioner, you said that the eu introduced this measure as a response to the 1970s energy crisis.
the development of transport policy is essential for more sustainable passenger transport and better waterway connections.
the report calls for improving competitiveness through better infrastructure, environmental sustainability and quality and accessibility of service.
i think what is most important is to end this climate of impunity for people who are daily committing war crimes.
given the extreme impact of air pollution on human health, action is needed to reduce air pollution.
there is a significant proportion of people in the eu who use sign languages and for whom access to not only the physical environment but also to information and communication is an important condition for independent living and participation in society.
– mr president, two years ago president juncker launched his energy union as one of his priorities, but since then, despite the energy security package, we have seen many actions that are at odds with this priority.
it is difficult to understand how nord stream 2 and the opal pipeline, which provide gazprom with increased access to europe, will achieve our goals of energy security.
it seems that, despite common goals to build an energy union, some member states would still rather focus on their own energy security and their own national production.
when i was asked to comment on the gazprom antitrust case, i stressed the need for much better interconnection between competition policy, single market legislation and energy policy, as the overall approach lacks coherence.
i would very much like to see the commission addressing this, too, in order to improve energy security.
therefore, support measures are needed to help businesses to integrate digital services, to meet the sustainable development goals and to implement the necessary security requirements.
we achieved as much as we could, and the only complaint from my side would be that we did not meet the 20% of climate—related budgeting, which only recently came out from the court of auditors document.
we can cool nuclear reactors much more quickly than former commissioners, and sometimes these former commissioners have not given as much energy as a nuclear power plant.
the availability of energy is essential for all human activities, including basic needs such as clean water, sanitation, health, heating, etc.
however, energy is not available to everyone today, and half of those without access to electricity live in africa.
it is therefore important that the eu, for its part, also contributes to access to energy in developing countries.
the resolution supports the commission's initiative 'energy for development', the eu's initiative to finance electricity supply, and also draws attention to the potential of renewable energy in africa.
madam president, this winter package is about shaping european energy policy for a decade to come, and even longer, so this requires some forward-thinking.
the commission got it right in clearly stating in its proposals that we are moving away from centralised generation towards decentralised production, with renewables and technology at the core, but all of this package needs to deliver on the statement and provide the right initiatives for the energy sector and consumers to move forward with this change.
i would remind us of the message in the previous report, by mr paşcu: ‘europe is no longer in control of its security environment and has lost the luxury of choosing the time and place of action’.
in addition, the agreement contains a chapter on trade and sustainable development, which contains ambitious provisions on employment and environmental protection, and aims to ensure predictable and stable environmental conditions for investors and businesses on both sides.
in the current political climate, the european union has to have a clear and stable approach to foreign and security policy.
the 2015 report shows that the majority of citizens turn to the european parliament for help on environmental, legal, internal market and fundamental rights issues.