when we talk about air pollution, we are talking about a very significant problem.
how, then, can the emissions of nitrogen oxides from transport be uncontrolled?
i do not think it is a hallucination to say that in those years we could have had emissions controls and reliable emissions measurements and type-approval.
the commission's so-called old solutions of letting emissions drift far beyond the frontiers have now come to their logical end.
i believe it will make everyday transport and logistics more seamless, safer, more resource efficient and more sustainable.
we must also create a regulatory environment that encourages the development of new innovations and services in europe.
and what's important for us in the s&amp;d group is that digital is a natural new beginning for growth, for healthcare, for education, for the development of remote areas, for energy efficiency services and so on.
often, food ends up with more waste than the manufacturer claims.
by deepening and strengthening cooperation and good relations with these countries, we could set international standards and promote fair and sustainable values for trade.
i would also like to add the environmental issues that have been raised here, the rights of workers and so on.
‒ the rate of loss of biodiversity is alarming.
the extinction of species and the collapse of ecosystems are the most serious threats facing humanity, alongside climate change and the unsustainable use of resources.
the objectives of the eu biodiversity strategy for 2020 will not be met.
their impact on biodiversity is crucial.
the various economic incentives must be directed towards supporting sustainable development.
the best preservers of biodiversity are natural and sufficiently large contiguous areas.
at the same time, they must be kept in good repair to protect biodiversity.
‒ the mid-term review of the biodiversity package voted today was a simple sign of the concerns and threats that were identified in the review.
the state of biodiversity is of great concern, both in the eu and worldwide.
this is the best way to ensure that the principles of biodiversity are also applied in the future.
‒ the mid-term review of the biodiversity package voted today was a simple sign of the concerns and threats that were identified in the review.
the state of biodiversity is of great concern, both in the eu and worldwide.
this is the best way to ensure that the principles of biodiversity are also applied in the future.
the development is not sustainable.
it is not just about the impact of these products on human health, but also on the environment as a whole.
however, we must also remember that in addition to environmental issues, we must also ensure that car manufacturers are brought into the same global emissions levels.
when trade is global, global, it is also possible to ensure that the rules are uniform and thus protect the whole planet, the whole environment.
however, recent studies have shown that glyphosate and its breakdown products, in particular ampa, can bind to soil and be released into the rest of the environment.
the concern is that accidents are being seen in the mediterranean, which could lead to further loss of life and also environmental damage.
my line is clear: tax information must be made public, it must be exchanged and tax havens must be involved in this activity in one way or another - for good or for ill.
mr president, the security environment in europe has become increasingly unstable.
we have to fight against poverty and promote ecologically, economically and socially sustainable development all over the world.
the use of glyphosate allows for direct drying, which prevents climate change and also reduces production costs, given that farmers are already in a difficult situation.
basic income and sustainable social policies would safeguard the dignity of life.
we therefore support the idea of not tackling energy poverty, and the report also calls for a ban on the switching off of heating in winter.
households can improve energy efficiency, but the poor cannot afford it.
i also hope that this house will support the commission's definition of energy poverty and its search for ways of addressing it.
blue-card question.– i am very happy that ms harkin also took up the energy poverty issue, as it is a real fact that nowadays more than 10% of european homes have a leaking roof or bad condition walls and inside humidity.
so energy poverty is a fact.
i think that, at best, an environment which is conducive to the private sector and business is one where good governance, accountability and transparency rules and which is predictable for all.
however, i believe that, when enterprises enter into the field of development, they have to be practising due diligence, so that they really understand the conditions on the ground; that what they are doing has to be genuinely in favour of alleviating poverty, addressing climate change and creating local livelihoods, in a sustainable way, and also respecting the rights of indigenous peoples and women, etc.
mr president, europe's heavy dependence on russian energy is a problem for europe.
the risks have increased particularly since putin's russia has made energy a weapon of foreign policy and part of its power policy.
we know that more than a third of europe's energy comes from russia, and that the greatest dependence is on natural gas, which accounts for about 40%.
all the objectives now being set to promote the energy union - increasing self-sufficiency, improving markets, diversifying energy sources and better networking european countries - are all important and worthwhile.
it is contrary to the objectives of the energy union.
for the alde group mr president, the sustainable development goals adopted in new york last september set out where humanity should be in the next 15 years: eradicating extreme poverty and hunger and creating economically, socially and environmentally sustainable development throughout the world.
the eu must show leadership in achieving sustainable development.
it has a major role to play in this as the world's largest trading power, the largest donor of development aid and the leading force in environmental policy.
the 2030 agenda aims to achieve a comprehensive approach to the promotion of sustainable development.
we in this parliament will be closely monitoring the commission's work on the implementation of the action programme for sustainable development.
one of the most passionate goals of the european union is to create a new, better, reliable, better-priced, consumer-oriented energy policy.
it is driven by climate change, the technological possibilities we have and new ways of using renewable energy.
madam griffin has done a great job bringing also the energy poverty into the central question.
one thing i am especially happy about is the fact that now we have some ideas on how to really fight energy poverty.
we do not have them in the telecom market, so why do we still have them in the market-oriented energy markets in europe?
mr president, in many speeches here tonight it has been stated that energy in europe is too expensive and the market is not working.
the commissioner has received very strong support from this group for market reform and for the need for greater transparency and competition in europe and for consumers to be able to switch energy suppliers.
one of the main reasons why the market is not working in europe at the moment is that we have insufficient energy transmission links, too many energy islands and, on the other hand, various energy subsidies have confused the market.
the european union is supporting energy with some eighty-five billion a year, and it has practically led to the situation that no one is investing in energy without some kind of permanent support, and this cannot continue.
it is acceptable when building a new technology that it gets some type of investment support, but if energy is based on the need for continuous support, it is not on a sustainable basis.
the commissioner has received strong support from this house, in that the european parliament wants to reform the energy market, to bring about competition and transparency.
‒ the griffin report outlines a number of good initiatives to facilitate the switchover of energy suppliers.
for example, studies show that the need for heating energy decreases by five percent when the temperature drops by one degree.
in the last year, the european parliament has discussed poverty in its various forms, such as energy poverty, on several occasions.
i supported the idea in the report that economic development and sustainable development can go hand in hand and are not mutually exclusive.
it is also very important to reduce food waste.
appropriate nutrition information should be shared at home and in schools to encourage healthy and ecological diets from childhood.
european financial instruments are needed, but even more important is the need to create a european environment that encourages businesses to invest.
this is particularly true of energy and environmental policy, which has been too short-sighted.
mr president, achieving the eu's co2 reduction target requires action by all sectors of energy production and consumption.
energy efficiency is one of the best ways to reduce co2 emissions.
energy efficiency must be promoted in the building sector, transport, services and in the various production methods, not forgetting energy production.
when it comes to renewable energy, it is important to stress that it can also be produced sustainably, on a small scale and locally, thus helping europe on its path to growth.
more investment is therefore needed in research and product development of renewable energy alternatives so that smes can also benefit from them.
the eu's dependence on fossil fuels produced outside the eu must be reduced by all means and subsidies must be directed towards supporting sustainable energy.
mr president, it has been said that there is a global energy revolution under way, with renewable energies taking over the market.
i am pleased that solar energy has started to be invested in and that the solar power capacity has been doubled in my home country of finland in 2015. the companies in the sector have promised significant capacity increases in the coming years as well.
some cities have embraced the idea, but businesses, energy companies, farms, and private individuals have also acquired solar power plants.
i have been thinking a lot about whether the slow progress towards renewable energy is due to the fact that the traditional energy markets have been dominated by a minority.
it is right to ask whether the political decision-makers and the big energy players have been too long and too closely linked to each other.
in any case, the energy policy of the future must be designed on the basis of the environment, jobs and consumers.
mr president, commissioner, just a few key points from this renewable energy report.
firstly, there is the question of subsidies for renewable energy.
they are a real problem for the whole european energy market at the moment.
the energy market is in disarray and in fact no one is investing in energy now without getting long-term production subsidies or guaranteed costs.
it is justified that research, development and investment in renewable energy can be supported, but if renewable energy is based on the assumption that it will receive continuous support, it is not sustainable.
we see that last year in europe renewable energy investment was the lowest in nine years, and investment fell by 20 percent.
the second question concerns the sustainability criteria, which we want to speed up in this case with regard to biomass.
however, the sections dealing with sustainability criteria for biofuels and bioliquids are problematic for forests.
paragraphs 84 and 85 refer rather negatively to the use of forest biomass as a renewable biomass energy source.
in addition, paragraph 85 provides for a margin of interpretation as to whether or not forest biomass is considered sustainable biomass.
in europe's forest-rich countries, forest resources are growing despite the energy use of wood raw materials.
this makes wood a truly renewable resource.
‒ the renewable energy scoreboard is essentially a balanced overview of the current state of affairs in the eu.
however, in the sustainability criteria for biofuels and bioliquids, paragraphs 84, 85 and 88 contain wording which i believe has failed finland, and which, among other things, calls for caution in the use of forest biomass as the eu's main renewable energy source, because: ... it can potentially have adverse effects on the climate and the environment.... these points do not, in my view, contribute to finland's objectives in the bioeconomy.
‒ the report on the implementation of the energy efficiency directive is to be welcomed, as it focuses not only on improving energy efficiency but also on energy saving.
taking account of national specificities and setting ambitious climate targets are also the right actions for the eu.
the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment.
it is not a sustainable path, but it creates a two-tier labour market, which loses both refugees and other workers.
we have the excellent communication from commissioner malmström on trade for all, and we have the agenda 2030, the so—called sustainable development goals.
companies deserve for the eu to actively support all kinds of initiatives on the sustainability and accountability of supply chains, because no company today can afford to be caught employing forced labour in their sub—contracting or child labour, or the like.
secondly, i believe that the eu has a big role in creating the enabling the environment for sustainable development in our trading partner countries.
what is your opinion of the change in the british mental climate caused by brexit?
the commission originally proposed that the key service providers, energy, transport, banks, financial markets, healthcare should be covered by this directive.
horizon 2020, the world's largest science programme, is helping europe move towards a smarter and more sustainable society.
it has been established that at present there are over 300 different authorities in the member states responsible for border control, maritime security, search and rescue and environmental protection.
‒ i voted in favour of the report because the objective of clarifying the current labelling of refrigerators in terms of energy efficiency must be supported.
we must ensure that the implementation plan of agenda 2030, the paris climate agreement and the sendai framework for disaster risk reduction is being carried out in line with the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities.
mr president, a well-functioning energy market is very important to all of us.
apparently, energy tax refunds have become a major tax-aid machine for some large international corporations.
according to the vatt study, a large proportion of the companies that received an energy tax rebate did not have any competitiveness problems at all, but were already above average profitable before the tax rebate machine.
if energy production is supported, i would hope that in future the aid money would be directed towards promoting small-scale and low-emission solutions close to the consumer and towards improved energy efficiency.
if it cannot be demonstrated, the commission will be obliged to ensure that citizens are not compensated for the losses they have suffered, both in terms of a worse environment and in terms of a worse product they have bought.
mr president, one of the most important issues of the autumn is the reduction of transport emissions.
think about it: 400 000 premature deaths caused by particulate emissions from transport each year in europe - no small matter.
in addition to environmental protection, the second major challenge in dealing with the scandal in its entirety is restoring consumer confidence.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of electricity from renewable sources.
‒ the report's elements promoting energy market security and consumer and environmental friendliness are good.
the development of energy markets is essential to reduce greenhouse gases.
this will be achieved by creating a functioning energy market for renewable energy sources.
they know best how to achieve, for example, the required renewable energy target.
‒ the integration of renewable energies and energy markets into heating and cooling policy is of paramount importance in the fight against global warming.
this will also help to accelerate the transition towards a more sustainable heating and cooling strategy, taking into account the specific circumstances of the member states.
the strategy should also take greater account of geothermal energy, which is a cost-effective and environmentally friendly heating and cooling solution.
however, i did not support article 23 because i think it misrepresents rural buildings, which in finland, for example, are often very energy efficient.
‒ i support the eu-sadc economic partnership agreement, because it allows us to support the development of these partners in a sustainable way.
the basic proposal also called for strengthening the sustainability of the emu as a whole, which i cannot support.
if we want growth, if we want european success stories, our own apple and facebook, we must guarantee our growth companies a fair chance to compete against the international waste.
when the cotonou agreement expires in 2020, we want to replace it with a new cooperation agreement, focusing on the 2030 agenda for all the world's nations and the achievement of the sustainable development goals.
the next agreement should allow for deepening and intensifying cooperation, in accordance with the will of the member states, in order to promote positive developments not only in the economic field but also in the fields of peace and security, human rights, the rule of law, migration, climate change and, more broadly, environmental protection.
the finnish milk powder and the bull fat product are examples of sustainable solutions for the future.
thirdly, how is the commission ensuring coherence and synergies between climate mitigation policies and flegt, especially on governance aspects?
first of all, we have the un sustainable development goals and the paris climate agreement, which both require effective action on illegal logging and deforestation.
however, i would like to stress that the european commission's proposals for implementing the objectives of the climate agreement are not yet on the right track, particularly in the lulucf and burden sharing sectors.
the specific characteristics of finnish sustainable forest management must be taken into account more closely in the further development of these directives.
‒ the cotonou agreement, signed in 2000, expires in 2020. the aim of the agreement is to promote sustainable development and poverty reduction in the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) countries and to support their integration into the world economy.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, the climate agreement is coming to fruition.
we urgently need to redirect funding towards a more environmentally and socially sustainable basis.
we are spending billions of dollars on fossil fuels, and by redirecting at least part of this support we could strengthen energy efficiency and promote research, development and use of renewable energies, including in the employment-promoting smes.
we must ensure that subsidies and public money are channelled into actions to reduce emissions, whether it be through the ets, the common agricultural policy or the eu's energy and transport policy.
its purpose is to establish an internal market with a highly competitive social market economy and a high level of environmental protection.
in 2014, environment, health, consumer protection, mobility and transport were again the policy areas with the highest number of new infringement cases.
the most new infringement procedures in 2014 were in the fields of environment, health, consumer protection, mobility and transport.
we would like to see the same passion in the areas of environment, health, consumer and transport, which are all areas where we have agreed.
we also missed opinions from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the committee on transport and tourism, having seen that these are the areas where most of the infringements actually occur.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, the improvement of the status of workers, the protection of the environment, human rights and democracy are certainly important values for all of us.
‒ i voted against the motion for a resolution because it does not take sufficiently into account the specific features of active and sustainable nordic forestry as part of the implementation of the paris agreement, in particular in the sections on land use, land use change and forests.
mr president, responsible business conduct can no longer be ignored, that is for sure, and i believe that the discussion on sustainable supply chains is here to stay, and the eu also must act accordingly.
i also regard the nord stream 2 project, which was mentioned in the report, as an environmental issue, and i voted in accordance with that.
i also voted in favour of environmental standards, for example the directive on pollution.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly aspects of the environment.
in addition to development aid and cooperation, other development policy instruments are needed to effectively eradicate poverty and promote other sustainable development goals.
this agreement can also be a tool for achieving global objectives and is a good example of how trade and environmental friendliness are not mutually exclusive.
the negotiations involve major economies and this agreement will allow us to take environmental standards forward on a global scale.
it is not enough to look at the commission's list of environmental infringements to see that member states are having difficulty complying with existing legislation.
air pollution causes more deaths in the eu than any other environmental problem.
air pollution in europe causes 400 000 deaths per year and the national emissions ceilings directive is a crucial piece of legislation which is meant to tackle this problem by placing appropriate limits on certain key pollutants which cause high levels of damage to public health.
– mr president, for active and healthy ageing, it is necessary to have sustainable levels of pensions.
this is not always the case in europe, and we have new threats like the economic landscape, carbon bubbles, resource efficiency and other factors.
mr president, both the eu and the united nations have finally come to realise that this is not just an environmental problem.
it is now understood that poaching and the trade in wildlife parts also threaten the good governance, security and sustainable development of nations.
immediate action is needed at all levels to tackle this greed and waste which threatens biodiversity, and in particular the eu must act in a direct way, whether in environmental or trade policy or tourism.
we have invested billions in the internet and high-speed connections that now enable new types of services in the transport sector, where we are often able to operate more efficiently in terms of the environment and time, and above all to deliver services that consumers are very happy with.
the revitalisation of the sector is well suited to the current integrated green and responsible european climate project.
the regulation leaves member states enough room to take account of national characteristics and it is time to take this forward so that we can focus on promoting sustainable and efficient maritime transport.
we are faced with the targets for reducing co2 emissions from shipping and decisions on the use of shipping capacity.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the “clean energy for all” package.
we can read this in particular in energy efficiency.
i thank the commission for coming forward with the proposal to substitute fossil fuels with sustainable biofuels.
i would like to congratulate the commission on this energy package, which is, in its main features, a very good and balanced package.
we are committed in europe to reducing emissions, and it is important that this be done as cost-effectively as possible and also on market terms.
energy efficiency is a big part of this.
we know that in many member states there is a significant and very cost-effective way to increase energy efficiency.
the second concerns renewable energy and its promotion.
naturally, renewable energy has had to be strongly supported in the initial phase, but now it is also necessary to gradually bring it into line with market conditions.
a form of energy based on permanent subsidies to production cannot be economically sustainable.
the second issue concerns the reduction of transport emissions.
it is good that the commission has taken steps in this direction, but we still have a lot of scope for more ambitious cuts in transport emissions, and europe can also be a world pioneer in this.