in the process, heads of state and the commission have granted pollution permits to car manufacturers.
these will now be able to exceed the pollution standards by 110% until 2020 and by 50% thereafter.
in other words, it is a total violation not only of european legislation but also of the european parliament, which is the co-legislator of pollution standards to protect the health of citizens and serve the general interest.
i share the concern of the drafters of this motion for a resolution about the public health costs of pollution and the inadequacy of the standards in force.
the text, however, offers a further twist to an industry already in a state of disarray, by postulating the dogma that the race to growth without pollution is within reach, if the right advice from political ecology is followed.
let us also reiterate that the reduction of polluting emissions will be achieved by reducing international flows, relocating the economy, a certain form of 'globalization' that no one - starting with political ecologists - wants to mention here.
madam president, we all agree that the automobile sector must make a serious effort to limit the emission of polluting gases into the atmosphere, including nox emissions.
it would therefore be irresponsible, both for the environment and for the automobile industry, to postpone the introduction of these tests until the greek calendar.
in four years' time there will be a compliance review, which will allow us to be even more demanding in terms of reducing emissions from the automotive sector, but this will only be possible by accompanying the sector in this transition and ensuring that the values are strictly respected.
the automobile industry is in the news today because its emissions are significantly higher in real life than in the laboratory, even though for the past four years it has been bragging about ever cleaner cars.
customers and the general public in contact with vehicles no longer want to have to suffer such levels of pollution.
so, the recognition of real-world tests to seriously estimate the pollution level of a vehicle is very good, but above all do not lower the level of requirements.
the french minister for the environment has committed, following the decision of the technical committee for motor vehicles (ctvm), to review this implementing act at political level by the relevant ministers in the council.
so our responsibility for tomorrow, rather than thinking in the short term, is to strengthen the conditions for the sustainability of creativity and culture in europe and this must be our priority in this area.
although the plan has some shortcomings, particularly in relation to the waste caused by the technique of sending boats to feed tuna with mackerel or stocks which benefit only a few tuna-farms, the text is intended to support traditional fishing methods for bluefin tuna.
i am in favour of these fishing techniques, which are environmentally friendly because they are very selective and require very little energy, and which should benefit from a special advantageous regime.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it aims to ensure the long-term conservation and optimum use of fisheries resources for sustainable fisheries in europe.
i am committed to the defence of the environment and small-scale fishing and i voted in favour of this text.
a balance must therefore be struck between safeguarding the marine ecosystem and preserving small-scale fisheries.
in this context, particular support and attention will be given to small-scale gear such as traditional fishing gear ('almadrabas'), which has a very low impact on marine ecosystems due to their low level of energy consumption and bycatch and their high level of selectivity.
‒ i voted in favour of this debate because it is about protecting traditional fishing methods, which are more concerned with protecting the environment.
despite some unsatisfactory aspects of the plan (waste, the elimination of small-scale fisheries, quotas), i voted in favour, in order to defend the overall spirit of the text.
although this plan does not solve all the problems (quota allocation, waste, etc.
), it is nevertheless necessary to protect traditional fishing methods: these methods are selective and respectful of the environment, and should benefit from a specific advantageous regime.
some problems are not solved by this plan: there is a great deal of waste, for example, through the technique of sending boats to feed tuna with mackerel.
these fishing methods are very selective and therefore respectful of the environment.
in the main, although some problems persist, notably the high level of waste caused by the technique of sending boats to feed tuna with mackerel, or the fact that small-scale fishing is excluded (since the allocation of quotas is unfavourable to it), the european commission and the fisheries committee of the european parliament wish to protect traditional fishing methods for bluefin tuna which are environmentally friendly (such as madrague).
some problems are not solved by this plan, including a high level of waste, via the technique of sending boats to feed tuna with mackerel.
these fishing methods are very selective and therefore respectful of the environment.
some problems are not solved by this plan: there is a great deal of waste, particularly through the technique of sending boats to feed tuna with mackerel.
these fishing methods are very selective and therefore respectful of the environment.
‒ despite fairly accurate statements on social, fiscal and environmental dumping and some claims that go in the right direction, i cannot support the deepening of the 'single european market'.
first, by introducing the concept of innovation, it allows the principle of risk-taking and the climate of confidence necessary for investment to be accommodated.
finally, i voted in favour of the amendment by my colleague edouard martin calling for the large energy-consuming industries to be taken into account and to be supported in the transition of their ecosystem.
it is worth noting that cartels cause losses of between eur 181 and 320 billion, or about 3% of the union's gdp; that in terms of energy costs, the european single market is less efficient than the us internal market, with price differences of 31% compared with 22% in the us; that in many member states, a drastic contraction in credit continues to affect smes, which represent 98% of enterprises in the european union and 67% of employees.
despite some good demands and findings on social, fiscal and environmental dumping, and the demand for increased powers of the parliament vis-à-vis the commission, we cannot endorse the deepening of the european single market.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
‒ in the turbulent political climate in europe (refugee crisis, rejection of institutions, withdrawal into oneself, rise of fundamentalism, etc.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
‒ this own-initiative report is part of the european union's strategy for smart, inclusive and sustainable growth (europe 2020) and the drive to promote entrepreneurship to boost job creation.
‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aimed to remove the obstacles to female entrepreneurship, which today represents only 31% of entrepreneurs in europe, as part of the european union's strategy for smart, inclusive and sustainable growth (europe 2020).
it is widely recognised that to boost growth in europe and create new jobs, the european union needs more entrepreneurs and its strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth (europe 2020) explicitly states that more concrete initiatives are needed to develop european entrepreneurship.
the european strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth explicitly indicates that more concrete initiatives are needed to develop european entrepreneurship.
the report aims to promote the development of women's entrepreneurship by improving their environment through the development of childcare services and paternity leave.
he still proposes the same inadequate recipes, including the creation of enterprises as a "sustainable" way of reducing unemployment, even though it is known that this is a dangerous approach, especially in the long term.
the content has certainly been improved thanks to the adoption of the majority of the amendments of my gue group in the parliamentary committee, such as the creation of safer and more sustainable jobs, especially in the social and solidarity-based economy and in renewable energies, or the desire to strengthen the youth employment initiative.
as with the single energy market, the aim is to advance the federalisation of europe in vital sovereign areas, starting with taxation: in the name of market fluidification, the project provides for greater vat harmonisation in the area of online shipments, towards a single rate, to develop cross-border purchases.
as far as businesses are concerned, it is absolutely essential to provide them with a stable legal environment so that they can develop beyond european borders without unjustified additional costs or legal uncertainty.
in addition, given the economic and social potential of big data and the internet of things (especially in the fields of health, energy and logistics), i would like to stress the importance of investing in information highways that are practical and open to all.
the european parliament also has a say in how it envisages the development of a digital market by 2020. that is why i supported this own-initiative report which sets out two key priorities: improving access to the digital single market for consumers and businesses across europe, and creating a favourable environment and fair conditions of competition for innovative services and advanced digital networks.
the report should help to lay the foundations for a stable european legal environment for a more efficient european digital economy.
as far as businesses are concerned, it is absolutely essential to provide them with a stable legal environment so that they can develop beyond european borders without unjustified additional costs or legal uncertainty.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the environment; the protection of consumers; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment concentration of operators in a few large european-level operators, which would make it impossible for states to regain their sovereignty in this strategic industry; unification of copyright and intellectual property rules to prohibit zone blocking.
this also raises the issue of an adequate regulatory environment, in particular for platforms and intermediaries, outlined in the text.
the eu must get on the digital bandwagon as soon as possible, catch up with the us and build a legal and economic environment that is conducive to the creation of future european digital champions.
the improvements in safety and health (and even the environment) are minimal and do not justify the establishment of new standards.
the improvements in safety and health (or even the environment) are minimal and do not justify the establishment of new standards.
the improvements in safety and health (or even the environment) are minimal and do not justify the establishment of new standards.
the improvements in safety and health (see environment) are minimal and do not justify the establishment of new standards.
the objective stated is the safety and health of users, since the report sets out obligations for the economic operators concerned, particularly with regard to the risk of carbon monoxide production by certain appliances; for example, a gas furnace can only be installed and maintained by a professional who is responsible for checking the safety of combustion.
this type of appliance is a danger to consumers because it can emit carbon monoxide if it is not installed correctly.
this would allow businesses to benefit from a more conducive environment for the smooth running of their business and consumers to obtain the same protections regardless of the country in which they reside.
i voted in favour of this report, which perfectly highlights the need to complete the single market and the need to use energy rationally.
the main objective of this text is to improve consumer safety and to avoid carbon monoxide poisoning, which is the leading cause of death in europe in relation to gas appliances.
the text thus strengthens consumer safety and the precautionary measures have been amended to better combat carbon monoxide poisoning.
‒ i voted in favour of this report, which called for the conditions for placing gas appliances on the market to be harmonised, in particular by imposing safety standards and the rational use of this energy.
it has contributed significantly to the completion and functioning of the single market and harmonises the conditions for the placing on the market and/or putting into service of gas appliances falling within its scope as regards the safety risks related to gas and the rational use of energy.
it focuses on precautions against carbon monoxide poisoning, which remains the leading cause of death in europe from gas appliances.
the aim of this text is to improve consumer safety, given that carbon monoxide poisoning is the leading cause of death in europe for gas appliances, while maintaining the objectives of competitiveness of the gas sector in europe.
these rules and measures are essential to prevent gas poisoning, particularly carbon monoxide (co), and leakage of any substance harmful to health and posing a safety hazard.
environmental protection, marketing authorization, the management of compliance with pre-1986 installations and the management of submarine cables on land remain the responsibility of the member states.
i do not see why this country should be granted the benefit of the special incentive arrangement for sustainable development and good governance, which consists of exempting certain imports from this country from customs duties.
the european union may grant a requesting country the benefit of a special tariff arrangement if the requesting country respects sustainable development and good governance gsp+ (special scheme of generalised preferences).
the conditions for being gsp+ are to promote sustainable development, protect human rights and democracy.
the commission allowed baby food to provide 30% of its energy in sugar, which is higher than the recommendations of the who and the scientific committees of the member states, as sugar is a major factor in obesity.
the cooperation framework established by the memorandum of understanding of november 2009 between the european union and colombia provides not only for the strengthening of economic and trade relations between the parties, but also for the consolidation of peace, democracy, respect for human rights, sustainable development and the well-being of citizens.
basically, it is based on virtuous circles that will take us from today's 3 °c, which reflect the reality of the commitments of the states, namely climate chaos, to 1.5 °c.
we see how renewable energies - for example, photovoltaics or onshore wind - are more competitive than oil, gas, nuclear and soon coal.
but at the same time, when we look at the latest figures on investment in renewable energy, we see that all regions of the world are moving forward in investment in renewable energy, except europe, and especially because of france, where investment was cut in half in 2015, when it was growing everywhere.
secondly, when we listened to the debate this morning, the president's programme had only one sentence on climate, mr minister, only one sentence on climate!
if this is the mood in the council on climate change, i fear that the virtuous circle between states, businesses, local authorities and ngos is not really taking shape.
but by 2030, it's purging the carbon market, it's changing the focus of renewables as energy savings.
achieving an inclusive political settlement, fully in line with the framework provided by the gulf cooperation council (gcc) initiative, the outcomes of the national dialogue conference and relevant united nations security council resolutions is the only sustainable way to alleviate the plight of the yemeni people.
madam president, my dear sylvie guillaume, i hear colleagues saying that we must not waste time and that we are lagging behind the united states, which has recently strengthened its position in the pacific.
‒ this report aims to bring into force the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and kosovo.
it will also help to implement many reforms in education, employment, energy, the environment, justice and home affairs.
‒ the eu-kosovo association agreement will strengthen our ties with this neighbouring country in many areas such as governance, judicial cooperation, consumer protection, intellectual property, energy cooperation and environmental protection.
‒ this report aims to bring into force the stabilisation and association agreement between the eu, the european atomic energy community and kosovo.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
other provisions concern political dialogue, cooperation in a wide range of areas, from education and employment to energy and the environment, justice and home affairs.
‒ since i was unable to be present at the vote on thursday 21 january, i would like to express my support for the report on the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community, of the one part, and kosovo, of the other part, which will allow for better cooperation in the fields of justice, home affairs, the environment, employment and energy.
this contractual agreement, which entails mutual rights and obligations in a wide range of areas, should encourage kosovo to make the necessary reforms, should foster its trade relations and political dialogue with the eu and allow for closer cooperation in many areas such as energy, environment, justice and home affairs.
finally, i believe that this agreement will help put kosovo on the path to stability, sustainable economic growth and the job creation that the country needs.
the signing of such an agreement will not only broaden the scope of eu-kosovo cooperation in trade and economic matters, but also in the fields of justice, energy and the environment.
‒ jean françois jalkh and georg mayer, two meps from the enl group, were appointed to the committee of inquiry into the measurement of emissions in the automotive sector.
‒ i voted in favour of the list of members of the committee of inquiry into automotive emissions.
‒ like other members of the epp group, i voted against the creation of a temporary committee to investigate violations of eu car emissions rules.
‒ the volkswagen scandal sheds light on the fraudulent practices of some car manufacturers to falsify emissions test results.
the parliamentary inquiry committee into the volkswagen scandal will have to investigate carbon emissions testing rigging in the car industry, and the failures of the commission and regulators to enforce emissions rules.
‒ the europe of nations and freedoms group has appointed mr jalkh and mr mayer as full members of the committee of inquiry into the measurement of emissions in the automotive sector.
air quality is a very important issue, but we must ensure that the french and european automobile industries can combine competitiveness with the environmental doxa of brussels.
‒ following the revelation of fraud involving certain engines of the volkswagen car manufacturer, a committee of inquiry was set up in the european parliament to study for a year the issues relating to emissions of polluting gases in the automotive sector.
as i have already stressed, this is necessary in order to restore and consolidate consumer confidence in this vital sector of european industry, and to move forward with the reduction of polluting emissions to which we have collectively committed ourselves.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the mutual assistance clause invoked by france after the terrorist attacks in paris gives us a unique opportunity to lay the foundations for a strong and sustainable european defence union in order to be able to deal with security threats and challenges.
moreover, the activation of this measure will lay the foundations for a strong and sustainable european defence union to deal with internal and external security threats.
the means of a strong and sustainable european defence union must be strengthened to better face the challenges of internal and external security.
the human rights vision set out in this text is also based on a communitarian analysis, whereby each community becomes a victim that must be saved by positive discrimination measures; to put europeans off the uncontrolled flow of migrants, the concept of "climate refugee" is being invented.
however, i did not want to vote against this resolution, which contains essential proposals, including the proposal for an international definition of 'climate refugees', because there is a real legal vacuum in this area.
it calls for a definition of the concept of 'climate refugee'.
it also calls for an internationally recognised definition of the concept of 'climate refugee' and for the participation of the member states in the work on a binding instrument on respect for human rights by multinationals, initiated by ecuador.
among the european parliament's priorities are respect for civil and political rights, including the regular holding of free and legitimate elections with universal and equal suffrage; freedom of the media, civil society organisations and human rights defenders; the safety of humanitarian workers; the abolition of the death penalty; freedom of thought, conscience, religion and belief; respect for human rights in resolving the migration and environmental crisis; and the coherence of the union's internal and external human rights policies.
‒ i voted against this motion for a resolution which seeks to approve the activities of the committee on petitions for 2014. indeed, it is noted that its activity is down compared to 2013, on the one hand, and that the topics of the petitions remain the same, on the other hand: it is exclusively about environmental law, fundamental rights, discrimination and immigration.
this annual report provides an overview of the working environment of the committee on petitions.
the majority of petitions concern justice, fundamental rights, the environment and the internal market.
the main topics of the petitions concern environmental law, fundamental rights, discrimination and immigration.
the majority of petitions received concern fundamental rights, justice, the environment, animal welfare and disability.
‒ this resolution deals with the annual report on the activities of the parliamentary committee on petitions of european citizens in 2014. these cover a wide range of areas, including the environment, fundamental rights, employment and the cipr.
however, since 2009, the ethiopian government seems to be sinking into a repressive and freedom-threatening climate.
in addition, ethiopia is about to experience the worst drought in fifty years, due to climate change.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, why does the greek government not ask the central bank to issue money to invest in energy savings and new energy in the greek economy, because then we would not be creating fake money, we would be investing in the real economy and we would have a real change in the economy.
i would therefore like to know, mr draghi, what the ecb is planning to do against financial speculation in energy prices in order to ensure sustainable price stability in the euro area.
the idea was to invest in structurally deficient countries in projects which are guaranteed to be profitable, such as energy savings, new energy sources or absolutely safe infrastructure projects.
we must find the basis for a new sustainable trade balance with china and this must be done within the framework of the united nations and not the wto.
the agenda calls for the debate on the oral question to the commission on the economic partnership agreement between the european union and west africa: provisions for sustainable development, by bernd lange and christofer fjellner, on behalf of the committee on international trade (o-000011/2016-b8-0108/2016).
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by mr mark demesmaeker, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy (2015/2137 ((ini)) (a8-0003/2016).
this globalisation is taking precedence over the recognition of professional activities as the cornerstone of a country's economic prosperity and the sustainability of quality social protection.
‒ i voted against this recommendation on amendments to the 1998 protocol to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution relating to heavy metals.
‒ supporting the amendment on heavy metal pollution would be a mistake.
‒ i voted in favour of these amendments because they represent an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment against transboundary air pollution.
winds know no borders, so the problems of air pollution must be tackled at european and international level.
‒ the aarhus protocol , named after the second city in denmark where the first convention was signed in june 1998, five years before the protocol of the same name , concerns long-distance transboundary pollution.
‒ this amendment concerns the aarhus protocol on transboundary pollution by heavy metals (e.g.
‒ the amendments to the aarhus protocol on long-range transboundary pollution provide for the setting of emission limit values for heavy metal dust.
‒ the aarhus protocol, which is under the auspices of the united nations, aims to limit long-range transboundary air pollution.
‒ this non-legislative report proposes the european parliament's support for the amendments to the protocol on long-range transboundary air pollution as regards heavy metals.
the convention, which entered into force in 1983, has created a framework for controlling and reducing the damage to human health and the environment caused by air pollution in crossborder areas.
in 2012, amendments were adopted to set stricter limits on metal dust emissions and to introduce a flexible transitional regime for new parties to the convention, including countries in eastern and south-eastern europe.
i supported the amendment to the protocol to the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution on heavy metals.
by controlling emissions of air pollutants such as anthropogenic emissions of lead, cadmium and mercury, we help to improve the protection of human health and the environment.
‒ the objectives of these amendments, relating to the aarhus protocol on transboundary heavy metal pollution, are commendable.
‒ all member states are parties to the international convention on long-range transboundary air pollution and its various protocols.
‒ supporting the amendment on heavy metal pollution does not seem sensible to me.
‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation by my colleague giovanni la via on the recommendation on long-range transboundary air pollution from heavy metals.
the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution has created a framework to reduce the harm pollution causes to health and the environment.
the aim of the heavy metals protocol is to reduce emissions of these metals into the atmosphere.
‒ i voted in favour of this european parliament recommendation on the convention on transboundary air pollution and more specifically on amendments to its heavy metals protocol.
the adoption of these amendments will make it possible to add a number of types of heavy metals to the list of products concerned, thus strengthening the fight against air pollution.
‒ i voted against this report because it does not bring anything new to the fight against crossborder heavy metal pollution.
‒ the protocol in question concerns crossborder pollution over long distances.
the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution aims to protect the human environment from air pollution, signed in 1979 and entered into force in 1983. it was the first legally binding international instrument in this field.
to date, the convention has been extended by eight protocols specifically identifying measures to be taken by the parties to reduce their emissions of air pollutants.
this amendment sets stricter emission limit values for dust emissions from certain large fixed sources.
i am voting for this text and i hope that it will be swiftly opposed to criminal emissions of lignite in germany.
‒ supporting the amendment on heavy metal pollution does not seem sensible to me.
‒ i have approved this text which authorises the eu to ratify the amendments to the 1998 protocol to the 1979 convention on transboundary air pollution relating to heavy metals.
their ratification will represent an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment against transboundary air pollution.
‒ the report on long-range transboundary air pollution from heavy metals follows international agreements in compliance with and consistency with eu legislation.
the ratification of these is an important step towards better protection of health and the environment, which is why i voted in favour of the report.
‒ crossborder heavy metal pollution is a phenomenon that we must take very seriously.
the report has the advantage of providing much more extensive and thorough protection for the environment and the health of our fellow citizens in this area.
‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation to revise the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution by heavy metals, as i did for persistent organic pollutants.
this convention is important because it aims to reduce the risks to human health and the environment caused by transboundary air pollution.
the one we are amending here is about reducing and controlling anthropogenic emissions of lead, cadmium and mercury, which are dangerous heavy metals carried by the atmosphere over very long distances.
the proposed changes set stricter limit values for dust emissions from large fixed sources and provide for transitional provisions for future parties that will accede to the protocol by the end of 2019, including countries in central and south-eastern europe.
the proposed elements are consistent with current eu legislation or will be through the revision of the directive on national emission ceilings for certain air pollutants, and should allow a new step forward in the protection of human health and the environment.
‒ i voted in favour of this report which provides for the approval of the amendment to the 1998 protocol to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution concerning heavy metals.
the 1979 convention on transboundary air pollution, which entered into force in 1983, is the first legally binding international instrument to protect the human environment from air pollution.
in 2001, the eu acceded to the 1998 protocol to reduce and control emissions of lead, cadmium and mercury into the atmosphere.
in december 2012, that protocol was amended to establish stricter emission limit values for dust emissions from certain large fixed sources.
the ratification of these amendments by the eu represents a step towards a higher level of protection of the environment and the health of european citizens from air pollution.
‒ the aarhus protocol is concerned with long-distance transboundary pollution.
‒ i voted against this recommendation on amendments to the 1998 protocol to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution on persistent organic pollutants.
‒ i voted in favour of these amendments because they represent an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment against transboundary air pollution.
winds know no borders, so the problems of air pollution must be tackled at european and international level.
‒ the aarhus protocol , named after the second city in denmark where the first convention was signed in june 1998, five years before the protocol of the same name , concerns long-distance transboundary pollution.
‒ this amendment concerns the aarhus protocol on transboundary pollution by heavy metals (e.g.
‒ the amendments to the aarhus protocol on long-range transboundary pollution set emission limit values for dust containing persistent organic pollutants.
‒ the aarhus protocol, which is under the auspices of the united nations, aims to limit long-range transboundary air pollution.
‒ this non-legislative report proposes the european parliament's support for the amendments to the protocol on long-range transboundary air pollution as regards heavy metals.
the convention, which entered into force in 1983, has created a framework for controlling and reducing the damage to human health and the environment caused by air pollution in crossborder areas.
in 2012, amendments were adopted to set stricter limits on emissions of organic pollutants, and to introduce a flexible transitional regime for new parties to the convention, including eastern and south-eastern european countries.
the european parliament approved the amendments to the 1998 protocol to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution on persistent organic pollutants.
i am of course in favour of any measure aimed at improving the protection of the health of european citizens, but also of their environment.
‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation by my colleague giovanni la via on the recommendation on long-range transboundary air pollution from persistent organic pollutants.
the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution has created a framework to reduce the harm pollution causes to health and the environment.
‒ i voted in favour of this european parliament recommendation on the convention on transboundary air pollution and more specifically on amendments to its protocol on persistent organic pollutants.
‒ the protocol in question concerns crossborder pollution over long distances.
the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution aims to protect the human environment from air pollution, was signed in 1979 and entered into force in 1983. it was the first legally binding international instrument in this field.
to date, the convention has been extended by eight protocols specifically identifying measures to be taken by the parties to reduce their emissions of air pollutants.
the amended protocol includes seven new substances, an update of the application regime for several substances and an update of the restrictions for certain emissions.
i hope that he will oppose the criminal pollution from the german lignite mines which are creating pollution peaks in france, i voted for it.
‒ i have approved this text which authorises the eu to ratify the amendments to the 1998 protocol to the 1979 convention on transboundary air pollution relating to persistent organic pollutants.
their ratification will represent an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment against transboundary air pollution.
‒ the report on long-range transboundary air pollution for persistent organic pollutants is in line with its counterpart on heavy metals.
‒ transboundary pollution by persistent organic pollutants is a phenomenon that we must take very seriously.
the report has the advantage of providing much more extensive and thorough protection for the environment and the health of our fellow citizens in this area.
‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation to approve the revision of the convention on long-range air pollution by persistent organic pollutants.
the convention, adopted in 1979 and entered into force in 1983, and revised and extended several times by means of several protocols since then, was at the time the first legally binding instrument to control and reduce the risks to human health and the environment caused by transboundary air pollution.
it is a reference text and an important one, since it aims at better cooperation and at limiting and reducing this pollution, an importance all the more evident when we remember that air pollutants can be transported over several thousand kilometres before being precipitated.
they should make it possible to take a new step in the protection of human health and the environment, in particular by adding new substances, updating the application regime for others or establishing new limit values.
‒ i voted in favour of this report which provides for the approval of the amendment to the 1998 protocol to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution concerning persistent organic pollutants.
the 1979 convention on transboundary air pollution, which entered into force in 1983, is the first legally binding international instrument to protect the human environment from air pollution.
the ratification of these amendments by the eu represents a step towards a higher level of protection of the environment and the health of european citizens from air pollution.
‒ the aarhus protocol is concerned with long-distance transboundary pollution.
this platform is the first step towards the development of a work programme that will respond to the urgency of the current situation with regard to undeclared activities, while contributing to fair competition in the market and sustainable fiscal stabilisation.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
‒ i voted in favour of this text on the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy.
it also encourages the reconciliation of environmental protection and economic development.
the report is therefore commendable, although i regret that it does not defend the vital aspect of the environment for man, rooted in his own space.
‒ i support this text in favour of biodiversity.
it noted that efforts had been limited and expressed regret that the flexibilities granted to member states had prevented the proper application of the biodiversity directives.
i regret the argument put forward in the text that the loss of biodiversity is a financial cost, whereas the emphasis should be on the importance of human ingrainment and, therefore, on the need to preserve the habitat and the environment.
however, the whole text is consensual without imposing too heavy requirements on the member states and recalls the importance of reconciling respect for the environment and economic development, which is a commendable approach.
‒ within the european union, biodiversity has declined at an alarming rate.
our environmental protections are the highest in the world, we must defend eu legislation and ensure that it is properly implemented.
the text repeatedly stresses the importance of reconciling environmental protection and economic development.
i regret, however, that the amendments tabled by my group were not adopted, although they did point to some obvious points which it is high time the eurocrats took into account, in particular the disastrous effects on biodiversity of unlimited free trade.
‒ this report on the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy notes that efforts have been modest in this area.
biodiversity issues are argued to be a socioeconomic integration of the issue, with biodiversity loss identified as a financial cost.
i regret that the vital aspect of the environment for man in his own space is not defended in this text.
‒ i regret that this report attributes the modest results achieved in biodiversity to the flexibilities granted to member states and that it attempts to reduce the issue of biodiversity to a financial issue.
nevertheless, i welcome the fact that it stresses the need to reconcile respect for the environment with the need for development, which is very important to me.
‒ this report on the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy finds that efforts by member states are relatively modest, mainly because of the flexibilities granted to them.
although it is regrettable that the issue of biodiversity is being dealt with in a financial approach, we appreciate the importance attached by the rapporteur to reconciling respect for the environment with economic development.
it is essential not to impose too heavy requirements on member states, which are already suffering from the environmental dumping of the emerging countries and the united states.
‒ the european parliament has delivered its opinion on the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy.
i voted in favour of this balanced report, which aims to fully implement the nature directives and support the european biodiversity strategy by 2020. it is important to remember that nature conservation and economic development are not mutually exclusive: the loss of biodiversity is detrimental to nature, to people and to the economy.
to combat biodiversity loss, the european union needs to be able to measure the state of biodiversity with scientific indicators.
‒ this strategic own-initiative report is parliament's contribution to the european commission's mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy (habitats and birds directives).
the report notes a general loss of biodiversity.
i also felt it was essential to call for better integration of local and regional actors, including farmers, in order to define a coherent biodiversity policy, which takes into account the activities of socioeconomic actors and the particularities of the territories.
with this vote, the european parliament wanted to reiterate its commitment and support for a strong eu strategy for biodiversity.
at a time when our biodiversity is under serious threat from pollution and climate change, the european union and its member states need to show more political will by setting ambitious targets.
‒ biodiversity is essential not only for the functioning of ecosystems but also for preserving air and water quality and for pollination.
the european union has set itself the objective of halting biodiversity loss and restoring ecosystem services by 2020. it is therefore important that member states implement better the eu's habitats and birds directives and that the union increases funding for biodiversity and takes action to strengthen the coherence between its agricultural, energy and environmental policies.
‒ i voted in favour of the demesmaeker report on the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy.
the report makes an urgent appeal to the european commission and the member states to set priorities to slow down the loss of europe's biodiversity.
i am voting in favour of including local and regional actors in the definition of policies for the protection of biodiversity.
‒ this report provides an important insight into the progress made in protecting biodiversity and the work still to be done to halt the disappearance of plant and animal species.
while biodiversity is under pressure globally, extensive agriculture must be preserved.
‒ the protection of biodiversity naturally involves vital, human and ethical considerations.
this review shows that efforts to promote biodiversity have been modest, but it is desirable to take account of economic development in all environmental matters.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because i support any text in favour of biodiversity, despite its shortcomings.
‒ on tuesday 2 february, i voted in favour of the mid-term report on the eu biodiversity strategy.
it is also necessary to involve all local and regional actors in order to define a coherent biodiversity policy, which takes into account the activities of socioeconomic actors and the particularities of the territories.
‒ i support this text in favour of biodiversity which does not place too heavy constraints on the member states.
i also agree with the frequent reference to the link between environmental protection and economic development.
i would just like to point out the error of the approach which places the challenge of biodiversity on economic integration instead of considering it as a necessary human good.
‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague mark demesmaeker on the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy.
biodiversity is a wealth and a resource that we must protect.
the european parliament has recognised the important contribution of the agricultural and forestry sectors to the preservation of this biodiversity.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the biodiversity strategy.
the importance of reconciling respect for the environment and economic development is often mentioned, and this pragmatic approach is commendable.
it is regrettable, however, that the issue of biodiversity is argued as a socioeconomic integration of the issue.
the loss of biodiversity is then identified as a financial cost.
‒ i voted for this report because it seeks to protect biodiversity, in particular against pesticides, gmos and hydraulic fracturing.
however, it is regrettable that the three amendments of the enl group were rejected on the basis of anti-fn ideology, even though they were intended to restrict even further the use of certain products harmful to biodiversity.
‒ a large majority of european citizens have recently expressed concern about the loss of biodiversity in europe.
based on this finding, the report sets out a clear diagnosis of how to halt biodiversity loss, stressing that to achieve the objectives of the eu biodiversity strategy, the current legislative framework will need to be fully implemented by member states, with additional dedicated monitoring and financial resources.
the text deplores the fact that the outermost regions are excluded from current community legislation, whereas they contain unique reserves of species and ecosystems and a substantial part of the world and european biodiversity.
it called on the commission to define a legislative framework adapted to the specificities of these regions and to create a sustainable financing mechanism for the protection of biodiversity in the octs and the overseas territories.
environmental policies need strong political support.
this mid-term review, as its name suggests, takes stock of the union's biodiversity strategy.
we also regret that the issue of biodiversity is seen only from the financial perspective of socioeconomic integration.
‒ the resolution aims at the full implementation of the birds and habitats directives and the preservation and restoration of ecosystems and ecosystem services.
to this end, it proposes to promote the contributions of agriculture and forestry to the preservation and enhancement of biodiversity.
the resolution also stresses the sustainable exploitation of fish stocks and the fight against invasive alien species.
all this is done in order to halt the loss of biodiversity on a global scale.
the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat climate change and to ensure that the eu's climate policy is not disrupted by climate change.
‒ i support this text in favour of biodiversity which does not place too heavy constraints on the member states.
i also agree with the frequent reference to the need to balance environmental protection with economic development.
i would just like to point out the error of the approach which places the challenge of biodiversity on economic integration instead of considering it as a necessary human good.
‒ the report on the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy considers that efforts have been limited and regrets that the flexibilities granted to member states may have limited the proper application of the relevant directives.
the issue of biodiversity is more argued from its economic aspect, the loss of biodiversity is then identified as a financial cost.
the vital aspect of the environment for man rooted in his space is obviously not defended in this text.
finally, the importance of reconciling respect for the environment and economic development is often mentioned, a praiseworthy pragmatic approach.
‒ i voted against this report on the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy in europe.
despite the interesting proposals contained therein, i could not support a text calling on member states to ban the experimentation of the exploitation of unconventional hydrocarbons such as shale gas, in defiance of the principles of subsidiarity and the sovereignty of national authorities in the choice of their energy package.
‒ the report on the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy presents encouraging solutions and objectives, which is why i voted in favour of it.
however, it also notes the continued deterioration of the environment and is pessimistic about the success of the 2020 environmental targets.
the union and the member states must make the protection of biodiversity a political priority.
‒ the report on the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy considers that efforts have been modest.
it is also regrettable that the issue of biodiversity is only argued by a socioeconomic integration of the issue, the loss of biodiversity is then identified only at a financial cost.
the vital aspect of the environment for man or the respect for nature and animals for themselves are not prohibited in this text.
finally, the importance of reconciling respect for the environment and economic development is often mentioned, a praiseworthy pragmatic approach.
‒ i voted in favour of this report on the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy.
the report stresses the need to continue efforts to halt biodiversity losses but also repeatedly stresses the need to recognise the specificities of the overseas territories in terms of biodiversity and to provide adequate funding.
the report calls on the commission to set up a sustainable financing mechanism for the protection of biodiversity in the outermost regions and overseas countries and territories, following on from the best preparatory action.
this is a very important point and i have been advocating this idea for several years in the european parliament: we need a specific instrument for the european overseas departments to protect our biodiversity.
‒ this report on the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy gives us an opportunity to take stock of our recommendations.
it allows us to contribute to the evaluation of environmental legislation, in particular the habitats directive, which is currently being carried out.
‒ this report recalls the importance of the eu's protection of biodiversity in the face of the multiple threats to it.
in some countries, there is a strong temptation to sacrifice environmental policies for economic reasons or because of a lack of courage.
france, which has so long delayed the adoption of a law on the protection of biodiversity, is one of europe's worst pupils.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy.
progress in halting the degradation of biodiversity worldwide has so far been insufficient; only 23% of species and 16% of habitats can be considered in good condition.
a stronger political will is needed to make biodiversity a priority, involving as many actors as possible and giving a strong role to local and regional actors.
we are calling for better enforcement of existing legislation, the integration of biodiversity into the common agricultural policy, the necessary measures to protect pollinators and the development of a trans-european network of green infrastructure (ten-g).
‒ i voted in favour of this report on the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy 2020. the text takes stock of the situation and calls for further, substantial and continuous efforts to be made to achieve the objectives set for 2020. it is true that the eu is lagging far behind in implementing its objectives, especially as habitat degradation and destruction, due in particular to climate change and unsustainable consumption patterns, are the main causes of biodiversity loss in europe.
to better respond to these challenges, it is first and foremost a question of better integrating all local and regional actors in order to develop a coherent biodiversity policy that takes into account territories and socioeconomic activities.
finally, i would like to emphasize, as this report does, the contribution of the agricultural and forestry sectors to the improvement of biodiversity.
‒ the report on the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy considers that efforts have been modest and, finally, regrets that the flexibilities granted to member states may have limited the proper application of the guidelines that cross this theme ( habitats , birds , ...).
it is also regrettable that the issue of biodiversity is argued by a socioeconomic integration of the issue, the loss of biodiversity is then identified with a financial cost.
the vital aspect of the environment for man rooted in his space is obviously not defended in this text.
finally, the importance of reconciling respect for the environment and economic development is often mentioned, a praiseworthy pragmatic approach.
‒ following the failure of the previous eu strategy against biodiversity loss by 2010, the commission adopted a new strategy in 2012 and the european parliament is assessing its implementation at mid-term.
biodiversity is still under serious threat everywhere, particularly from human activities.
the report put to the vote by the european parliament advocates opposing the review of the various nature directives, calls for the full integration of this biodiversity strategy into the cap, the evaluation of the greening of the cap and the strengthening of the natura 2000 network.
i am more than reserved about other measures such as the 'natural capital financing mechanism', which is supposed to guarantee projects on biodiversity and which is mostly akin to green washing by which companies can redress their badge by financing only profitable ecological projects.
you already have them in your drawers, as my colleague mr gerbrandy said, because the directorate-general for the environment has already taken them.
(the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection)
answer is "blue cardboard".
this vote concerns the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the application of the safeguard clause and the anti-circumvention mechanism allowing for the temporary suspension of the tariff preferences provided for in the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of moldova, of the other part.
‒ i supported the european parliament legislative resolution of 3 february 2016 on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the application of the safeguard clause and the anti-circumvention mechanism allowing for the temporary suspension of tariff preferences provided for in the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of moldova, of the other part.
this vote concerns the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the application of the anti-circumvention mechanism allowing for the temporary suspension of the tariff preferences provided for in the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part.
‒ i supported the legislative resolution of the european parliament of 3 february 2016 on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the application of the anti-circumvention mechanism allowing for the temporary suspension of tariff preferences provided for in the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the european food safety authority has however conducted a study which concluded that this product is safe for humans, animals and the environment.
unfortunately, this objection was adopted in breach of the principle of subsidiarity and while the commission, before issuing its proposal for authorisation, respected the existing procedure for gmos by relying in particular on an analysis by the european food safety authority on the safety of the plant for human and animal health and the environment.
‒ i wanted to support this objection by parliament to an authorisation to place on the market products containing genetically modified soybean mon 87708 × mon 89788. in addition to my opposition in principle to gmos, which are potentially dangerous to health and threaten the ecosystem, i would like to stress that in this particular case efsa has once again shown dogmatism by issuing a rather flimsy assessment and ignoring the relevant comments of the member states on the subject.
the european food safety authority has however conducted a study which concluded that this product is safe for humans, animals and the environment.
unfortunately, this objection was adopted in breach of the principle of subsidiarity and while the commission, before issuing its proposal for authorisation, respected the existing procedure for gmos by relying in particular on an analysis by the european food safety authority on the safety of the plant for human and animal health and the environment.
such decisions are contrary to the rejection of the legislative revision proposal made in april 2015 allowing national bans by the european parliament in october 2014, as the european parliament considered that such relaxation did not meet the need to protect european citizens from the environmental and health risks of gmos.
the european food safety authority has however conducted a study which concluded that this product is safe for humans, animals and the environment.
unfortunately, this objection was adopted in breach of the principle of subsidiarity and while the commission, before issuing its proposal for authorisation, respected the existing procedure for gmos by relying in particular on an analysis by the european food safety authority on the safety of the plant for human and animal health and the environment.
‒ i voted against this motion for a resolution on emissions from passenger and light commercial vehicles.
this proposal follows the volkswagen scandal, which revealed the considerable differences between pollutant emissions in the laboratory and those in real driving conditions.
it should be remembered, however, that the cars involved have, on the other hand, emitted less carbon monoxide, a much more harmful gas.
‒ the issue of vehicle emissions has returned to the forefront of european politics with the volkswagen case.
the commission's strict standards for actual pollutant emissions do not yet require real driving conditions (rde) tests.
secondly, technical standards are a cataplasm on a wooden leg in the fight against air pollution, because the eu is also increasingly encouraging the flows that generate these emissions.
this text is therefore a unilateral requirement of the political environment, imposed on european industry alone, with serious consequences for a sector in crisis.
‒ this objection follows the revelation of considerable differences between laboratory and real driving emissions (rde) for volkswagen diesel engines.
the first recital recalls the numerical cost of air pollution (estimated at eur 940 billion per year) as a dogma, and justifies the need for increasingly stringent and costly technical standards.
these requirements are questionable for two reasons: europe is becoming the least industrially-friendly region in the world; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
after having voted in favour of this resolution condemning the executive committee on the grounds that it had exceeded its rights and its powers of implementation to the detriment of the legal affairs committee in particular, i was able to realize that this was not the case and that, on the contrary, not supporting the commission's proposal for a regulation would mean a late and uncertain result in terms of policy for reducing pollutant emissions.
the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a serious accident.
this proposal follows the volkswagen scandal, which, admittedly, has revealed the considerable differences between the pollutant emissions in the laboratory and those in real driving conditions.
it should be remembered, however, that the cars involved have, on the other hand, emitted less carbon monoxide, a much more harmful gas.
the resolution is not a good strategy, because it wants to impose additional standards, reacting in an emotional way without taking the time to consult with the representatives of the automobile industry and without a real study of the impact on health and the environment of nitrogen dioxide compared with the effects of carbon monoxide.
the requirements in this text are questionable for two reasons: europe is becoming the least suitable region in the world for industry; technical standards are a cataplasm on a wooden leg in the fight against air pollution because the eu also encourages more and more flows that generate these emissions.
this text is therefore a unilateral requirement of the political environment, imposed on european industry alone, with serious consequences for a sector in crisis.
‒ the volkswagen scandal revealed that the german company had deliberately reduced the pollutant emissions of its diesel engines by using fraudulent methods.
under the pretext that the cost of air pollution is exorbitant, our industry and our companies should be subjected to ecological constraints and environmental requirements far greater than those in the united states and in emerging countries.
the member states of the union are already faced with unfair international competition, in particular because of the environmental dumping practiced by these countries.
environmental protection must not be at the expense of economic development.
‒ following the volkswagen scandal, the commission has responded by proposing to make the real-world emissions testing of diesel cars more stringent by reducing the difference between the regulatory emission limit which is tested in the laboratory and the value of emissions produced in real driving conditions.
this measure, together with the european commission's ambitious new legislative package, shows the commission's determination to do everything possible to increase the reliability of the european automotive sector in terms of compliance with environmental standards.
our aim is to reduce emissions of polluting gases while giving the european automobile industry time to adapt to these new conditions and to remain competitive on the international market.
nowhere else, not even in the united states, are vehicle emissions standards this ambitious.
tomorrow, our citizens will breathe cleaner air and live in a less carbon-intensive environment.
i rejected this objection to a european commission decision concerning the introduction of thresholds for real driving tests to limit emissions from passenger cars and light commercial vehicles.
however, it would have been irresponsible to reject and delay the introduction of european legislation aimed at limiting these emissions, in the direction of better environmental protection.
these measures are essential both for the protection of the environment by reducing pollution and for the health of european citizens.
‒ in the wake of the volkswagen scandal, this motion for a resolution seeks to require a new regulation, before 1 april 2016, which would require real-world emissions tests.
the cost of air pollution is estimated at 940 billion euros a year, and this shows the dogmatic nature of political ecology.
this text, which places the responsibility for emissions on the european industry in crisis, is characterized by a counterproductive normative inflation aimed at concealing all responsibilities on this subject.
i am opposed to european industry being made to suffer today from european and global failures to limit pollution, and i voted against this resolution.
the challenge was to put an end to the old laboratory tests, which were unreliable and did not reflect the reality of emissions into the atmosphere, and to introduce new tests carried out under real driving conditions.
the volkswagen scandal exposed the fraud in car emissions.
i voted in favour of this objection because car pollution is a crucial health and environmental risk which must be effectively controlled and whose standards must be respected.
‒ the issue of vehicle emissions has returned to the forefront of european politics with the volkswagen case.
the commission's strict standards for actual pollutant emissions do not yet require real driving conditions (rde) tests.
secondly, technical standards are a cataplasm on a wooden leg in the fight against air pollution, because the eu is also increasingly encouraging the flows that generate these emissions.
this text is therefore a unilateral requirement of the political environment, imposed on european industry alone, with serious consequences for a sector in crisis.
‒ i voted against the objection under rule 106 on emissions from passenger and light commercial vehicles (euro 6).
this will allow emissions tests to be carried out quickly in real driving conditions, which will have a real impact on european air quality.
‒ i voted against this objection which was aimed at challenging the new automobile testing framework proposed by the commission to verify passenger car emissions following the volkswagen scandal.
‒ i voted with my colleagues in the epp group against the objection on vehicle emissions calling on the commission to withdraw its draft regulation setting limits for diesel engine emissions, as they are measured under real driving conditions.
in addition, this gradual revision will enable our european automotive industry to gradually adapt to the established environmental standards.
but the commission has reversed its own standards, under pressure from the car industry lobby worried about having to play cards on the table on their emissions.
it did so by abandoning its own pollution thresholds, particularly for diesel, and by adopting 'guidelines' which permit exceedances of up to twice (more than 110%) the thresholds laid down.
i therefore opposed this double legislative gambit, which has been made at the expense of the anti-pollution standards already adopted, european democracy and the health of european citizens.
‒ i voted against the objection under rule 106 on emissions from passenger and light commercial vehicles.
the volkswagen scandal revealed considerable discrepancies between laboratory and real driving emissions of pollutants for diesel engines.
the commission's strict standards for emissions of pollutants do not yet require such tests.
the first recital refers to the cost of air pollution and justifies the need for increasingly stringent and costly technical standards.
these requirements are questionable for two reasons: europe is becoming the least industrially-friendly region in the world; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
‒ i voted against this resolution because it requires, in a too hasty way, that a new regulation be ready by 1 april 2016 to impose pollution controls on diesel engines in real driving conditions and not in laboratories.
it follows the volkswagen scandal which revealed the discrepancies between pollutant emissions from laboratory tests and those under real driving conditions.
the commission is setting unrealistic and unrealistic emission requirements, unilaterally demanding a political environment that is harmful to european industry, with serious consequences for a sector already in crisis.
‒ the revelations about the polluting emissions of volkswagen vehicles and the suspicions that other manufacturers have been subjected to have raised legitimate indignation.
a major sector of the european economy, largely supported by the public authorities during the crisis, has knowingly organised massive fraud to circumvent anti-pollution standards.
in the wake of cop 21, the commission, one of the three pillars of its europe 2020 strategy being sustainable growth, is giving in to the car lobby without consulting it.
‒ the resolution opposes the adoption of the commission's draft regulation on vehicle emissions under the real driving emission (rde) package.
the regulation allows derogations from the euro 6 emission limits for nox (nitrogen oxide), which leads to a lowering of the anti-pollution standards.
air pollution causes more than 400 000 premature deaths a year in the european union and causes significant health costs of between €330 and €940 billion a year.
no2 emissions (mostly from diesel vehicles) are responsible for more than 7700 deaths a year in france.
‒ the volkswagen case has brought the issue of vehicle emissions back to the forefront of european politics.
the commission's strict standards for actual pollutant emissions do not yet require real driving conditions (rde) tests.
the technical standards also show a contradiction in the fight against air pollution, as the eu is increasingly encouraging the flows that generate these emissions.
i note that this text is a unilateral requirement of the political environment, and that is the sole responsibility of european industry, with serious consequences for a sector in crisis.
this motion for a resolution on emissions from passenger and light commercial vehicles follows on from the volkswagen scandal.
the revelations had implicated the company in falsifying its tests on pollutant emissions in the laboratory and in real driving conditions.
the text recalls the cost of pollution (estimated at €940 billion per year), which would justify the introduction of ever more stringent standards.
however, this text places the cost of this ecological burden on the european industries alone, which are already badly damaged.
‒ i voted against this objection to the draft regulation on emissions from passenger cars and light commercial vehicles.
with this text, europe will become the first continent to have real-world emissions tests, which are much more accurate than laboratory tests, whose theoretical values are still far outdated.
these new tests will provide greater visibility and legal certainty for car manufacturers who need to plan for the long term for their investments in emission reduction and environmental protection.
they will also provide more reliable information to consumers on the pollution of the vehicles they buy.
‒ in response to revelations of volkswagen's rigged tests, an objection to a change in the rules for measuring car emissions has been lodged.
i voted against this objection, which in no way takes account of the new binding text, which everyone already considers to be a great step forward towards more efficient testing and respect for the environment.
this has made many environmental ngos grin their teeth.
the truth is that we made the choice to move towards tests in real driving conditions from 2017, and no longer in the laboratory where emissions and consumption were already lower.
i even asked for it in my cars2020 report, back in 2013. it is both a way of regaining the confidence of motorists and of meeting our commitments to reduce vehicle pollution.
‒ i voted today in favour of the objection against the european commission's delegated act to increase the tolerance for polluting emissions from cars.
but now we must look to the future and do everything we can to reduce this margin as quickly as possible, so that eventually it will be 1 if possible by 2020. this is not only a matter of respect for democracy and the european legislator, but also of the quality of air in europe, a major health and environmental issue.
the work is also far from over with regard to real-world emissions testing (rde): now that the commission's delegated act has been adopted, i will be particularly vigilant about the proper application of rde tests, which is a prerequisite for the effective entry into force of pollution standards.
european manufacturers have already had almost 10 years to adapt to the new nitrogen oxide (nox) emission standards since parliament voted them in 2007. they have no excuse and parliament should have been tough on the manufacturers who, unlike others, have not invested in high-performance technologies and sustainable jobs.
‒ i supported the commission's proposal to introduce a compliance factor for new real driving emissions tests.
finally, i wanted to avoid the rejection of this text in order to ensure a rapid and realistic reduction in the levels of nitrogen oxide emissions currently emitted under real conditions.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which calls for the rejection of the commission's draft regulation on emissions from passenger and commercial vehicles.
in the context of volkswagen's emissions fraud, such an upward reassessment of the emission thresholds for carcinogenic pollutants is unacceptable.
‒ when the volkswagen scandal broke a few months ago, the european parliament reacted firmly with a committee of inquiry and an unequivocal condemnation of the fraud orchestrated by the german manufacturer, concealing the real emissions of its vehicles.
the emissions of nitrogen oxides - fine particles that have been shown to be carcinogenic - could be 110% higher under real conditions than the legal emissions in the laboratory.
although industrial activity remains a key factor, it must adapt to respect both health and the environment.
the latter consisted of the discovery of considerable differences between the pollutant emissions in the laboratory and in real driving conditions for volkswagen diesel engines.
the commission's strict standards for emissions of pollutants do not yet require such tests.
these requirements are questionable for two reasons: europe is becoming the least industrially-friendly region in the world; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
this text is therefore a unilateral requirement of the political environment, imposed on european industry alone, with serious consequences for a sector in crisis.
‒ following the scandal of anti-pollution test fraud in the automotive sector, which primarily concerns the german manufacturer volkswagen, the european commission has proposed a draft regulation to raise the existing greenhouse gas emission standards for light vehicles.
manufacturers have until 2020 to comply with the new legal standards for nitrogen oxides emissions, adopted in 2007, and during this period, to be type-approved, cars are allowed to emit up to 2 times more nitrogen oxides (nox) than the future legal standard.
parliament stressed the importance of preserving european economic, social and environmental standards in these negotiations.
in doing so, it proposes a set of safeguards to prevent: they shall not prohibit public re-appropriations; they do not undermine existing labour rights, environmental or privacy protections; and, more generally, that states can still legislate and that communities can still manage their public services and procurement.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
future environmental services), social security systems, water and health.
tisa will not in any way facilitate social dumping, tax evasion or weaken our social and environmental standards.
so i expect you to take responsibility and suspend all prospects... (the president cut the speaker off) (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection)
answer is "blue cardboard".
‒ the association agreement between the european union and kosovo will strengthen our ties with this neighbouring country in many areas such as governance, judicial cooperation, consumer protection, intellectual property, energy cooperation and environmental protection.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
it is necessary to fight constantly to recall the national framework for the sustainable development of island regions, against the attempt to 'regionalize' our territories, which would serve to eliminate the state as the intermediary between the union and the territories.
‒ island regions face additional costs, particularly in terms of energy and raw materials supply.
it is also true that islands are more vulnerable to the main challenges facing member states, namely unbridled globalisation, climate change and the massive influx of migrants into the mediterranean.
it is the sole responsibility of the member states, in cooperation with local authorities, to determine the sustainable development strategies of these regions and the infrastructure projects eligible for european structural funds.
the resolution stresses the specific nature of islands and the need for specific measures to respond to the challenges they face: climate change, connectivity, migration.
i proposed, particularly at the sea summit, that this new frontier should become a major axis for the ecological recovery of activity.
the resolution goes in this direction: development of alternative energy sources (marine, wind and solar), local markets which are indispensable because of their insularity, new sea routes and sustainable fisheries management.
support for sustainable activity is once again running up against eu austerity.
i therefore voted against this text, because the only framework for the sustainable development of island regions must remain the national framework.
it called for this to be taken into account and for measures, including fiscal measures, to be taken to develop activities in the fields of the environment and connectivity.
it emphasises the specificities of islands and the need to provide for specific measures to respond to the challenges they face (climate change, connectivity, migration, etc.).
they must urgently address the challenges of globalisation, climate change, energy security and migration flows.
the instability of the world's political, economic, social and environmental systems requires that we all be united.
mr president, you have not heard me correctly, i did not say that brexit would lead to political instability, i said that the political, economic, social and environmental instability in the world requires us all to be united.
beyond the mantra of 'competitiveness, growth, administrative burden', this control should incorporate the real social and economic tools of sustainability.
the topics covered in this report are investment, structural reforms, fiscal responsibility, euro area specific problems, the democratic legitimacy of the european semester and budgetary policies, the environment and public health, and regional development policies.
the topics covered in this report are investment, structural reforms, fiscal responsibility, euro area problems, the democratic legitimacy of the european semester and budgetary policies, the environment and public health, and the famous 'regional development policies'.
but these investments must remain sustainable in view of the very high levels of indebtedness.
the report covers a range of topics from investment to the environment and more generally, it proposes to strengthen domestic demand through strong private and public investment (cf.
‒ this report promotes the european semester, which considers the free movement of people, goods, services and capital as the cornerstone of sustainable economic growth within the eu's single market.
these proposals are essential if the union is to return to stable and sustainable growth.
but these investments must remain sustainable in view of the very high levels of indebtedness.
the topics covered in this report are investment, structural reforms, fiscal responsibility, euro area specific problems, the democratic legitimacy of the european semester and budgetary policies, the environment and public health, and regional development policies.
finally, it stressed the usefulness of the european semester and encouraged its efficiency to be improved in order to coordinate economic policies more closely, to make it more democratic and to include new objectives such as those relating to the environment.
the topics covered in this report are investment, structural reforms, fiscal responsibility, euro area specific problems, the democratic legitimacy of the european semester and budgetary policies, the environment and public health, and regional development policies.
but these investments must remain sustainable in view of the very high levels of indebtedness.
the topics covered in this report are investment, structural reforms, fiscal responsibility, euro area problems, the democratic legitimacy of the european semester and budgetary policies, the environment and public health, and the famous 'regional development policies'.
but these investments must remain sustainable in view of the very high levels of indebtedness.
in particular, there is a need to respond rapidly to the situation of the unemployed over the age of 55. the same is true for sustainable growth, in particular through a revival of investment.
i supported this text which calls for stimulating growth by a sustainable relaxation of investment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment-related aspects of the environment.
however, tunisia is subject to strong social and economic tensions, the emancipation of its society is taking place in an extremely difficult political context, an unstable environment, and it is therefore very important to help it.
while mentioning the need for eu support for tunisia following its democratic transition, this motion for a resolution calls for the continuation of negotiations for an eu-tunisia free trade agreement, despite the most volatile environment, and foregoes the need for consultation of civil society and a possible impact assessment of such an agreement.
after toxic loans that have contributed to the increase of its debt, tunisia should therefore liberalize its economy, sacrifice its traditional agriculture and its environment, all to the benefit of large european companies.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionising radiation.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances and preparations.
first, on the need to improve the environment for the creation of smes and hence jobs, he advocated increased public and private investment.
the text covers a wide range of areas: investment, goods and services, e-commerce, public procurement, state-owned enterprises, energy and plant health barriers, but also agriculture.
the resolution calls for the inclusion of all sectors of the economy in this free trade agreement with australia and new zealand: public procurement, public enterprises, energy... so many strategic sectors for france!
these negotiations must, however, be clear, transparent and respect our european environmental and social standards.
all the following fields must be included in the agreement: investment, goods and services, e-commerce, public market, state enterprises, energy, phytosanitary barriers... given the high competitiveness of the australian and new zealand agricultural sectors, particularly in livestock, milk and cereals, it is very dangerous to open free trade negotiations with these two countries.
‒ in an environment where australia and new zealand have recently signed the trans-pacific treaty, the european union wants to increase trade relations with these countries in the following fields: investment, goods and services, e-commerce, public market, state-owned enterprises, energy, plant health barriers... given the high competitiveness of the australian and new zealand agricultural sectors, particularly in livestock, milk and cereals, it is very dangerous to open free trade negotiations with these two countries.
i reject these policies which are harmful both to the economy and to the environment.
the negotiations have not yet been launched and this is why this text calls for comprehensive and sustainable long-term impact assessments to be carried out by the european commission.
the gue/ngl group had tabled amendments to obtain a minimum number of guarantees for the protection of social, environmental and human rights standards.
what is worse, it imposes a uniform vision in disregard of reality, in disregard of people's experience, in disregard of environmental requirements, in disregard of social requirements.
the agenda calls for the debate on:- oral question to the commission on the communication from the commission entitled 'towards a thriving data economy' (com(2014) 0442) by jerzy buzek, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (o-000021/2016 - b8-0116/2016) (2015/2612 ((rsp))),- oral question to the commission on 'towards a thriving data economy' by vicky ford, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (o-000040/2016 b8-0351/2016) (2015/2612 ((rsp)).
it is about improving the economic situation of our continent by combating the human waste of women's unfulfilled potential.
women in europe are just as well trained, just as well educated as men, and so there is a real waste, a real waste of human resources and a loss of potential, in not giving women the full space and responsibility to which they can aspire in the labour market.
the increase in trade, climate change and the mutation of infectious agents are now increasing the risk of the emergence of previously unknown diseases such as avian influenza, which is now affecting the entire palm tree sector very severely.
as such, i can only welcome the strengthening of prevention and biosecurity to protect not only animal health but also human health and the environment.
‒ there is already a lot of eu law on animal welfare, which applies to various species or activities, and on environmental standards.
in a difficult economic environment for our farmers, i did not vote for this amendment because it would add constraints and difficulties to our european milk and cattle producers, who are struggling to make a living from their work.
while encouraging healthier eating habits, the programme will also support small farmers to find a sustainable outlet.
finally, the programme is supported by the obligation to introduce the promotion of healthy eating habits, short circuits, organic farming and the fight against waste.
it will also help to combat waste.
additional educational measures will be implemented to emphasise the role of agriculture and to emphasise practices that promote health and the environment.
the programme also aims to promote a healthy, balanced and sustainable diet based on short circuits, organic production and the fight against waste.
more than a matter of public health, it is a matter of combating the excesses of the consumer society by promoting responsible consumption and sustainable agricultural production
in writing.
member states will also have to promote healthier eating habits, local products, organic farming and the fight against food waste.
however, in the context of this violent crisis for our farmers, the promotion of short circuits is one of the levers for developing new models of sustainable agriculture.
‒ mr fleckenstein's report focuses on the commission's proposal to contribute to the more efficient, interconnected and sustainable operation of some 330 european ports.
while health and environmental controls are already inadequate in ports, this new opening will further disarm europe against dumping in global free trade.
in the end, i am voting against, despite the few precautions added by parliament, and i am instead advocating ecological and social protectionism.
‒ in response to the objectives of a more efficient, interconnected and sustainable operation of the trans-european transport network (ten-t), the commission's proposal aims to create favourable conditions for investment in ports, in order to modernise them and improve their performance.
emphasis has been placed on social and environmental standards, including safety and health.
the commission is proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
it is therefore particularly important to avoid waste and fraudulent activities and to strengthen cooperation between the member states, the european commission and the various european authorities or agencies responsible for these controls.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
i shall not go into the psychological environment that can be found in a minor in a praetorium.
our leaders are spending insane energy tinkering with circumstantial responses.
‒ air pollution by sulphur is very harmful to human health.
emissions from marine fuel ships have a high sulphur content, which contributes to air pollution and is harmful to human health.
in addition, acidification and the release of sulphur dioxide into the atmosphere cause damage to fragile ecosystems, reduce biodiversity, and damage agriculture and forests.
marine fuel boats have a high sulphur content, which is a source of air pollution and is harmful to health.
naturally, acidification and the release of sulphur dioxide into the atmosphere cause damage to fragile ecosystems, reduce biodiversity and harm agriculture and forests.
it is only a codification and this text encourages the fight against pollution and acidification, which are damaging to the environment.
- since, on the one hand, it is merely a codification and, on the other hand, the codified text contributes to the fight against pollution and acidification, which damage our environment, i have no reason to oppose it.
the emissions from fuel-powered vessels contain a high sulphur content, the release of which is dangerous for marine ecosystems and biodiversity.
this coding helps to combat pollution and acidification, which are damaging our environment.
the text also aims to strengthen the fight against pollution and acidification, which are damaging to our environment.
‒ i voted in favour because the codified text helps to combat pollution and acidification, which are damaging our environment.
emissions from marine fuel ships have a high sulphur content, which contributes to air pollution and is harmful to human health.
in addition, acidification and the release of sulphur dioxide into the atmosphere cause damage to fragile ecosystems, reduce biodiversity, and damage agriculture and forests.
the fact that this is merely a codification and that the codified text is also helping to combat pollution and acidification, which are damaging to our environment, is no reason for us to oppose it.
it is therefore urgent to achieve the quality standards that the union has set itself in order to remedy the adverse consequences on health and the environment.
‒ i voted in favour of this report on a directive to reduce sulphur dioxide emissions from the combustion of certain types of liquid fuels.
this will help to reduce the effects of these dangerous emissions on man and the environment.
emissions from marine fuel ships have a high sulphur content, which contributes to air pollution and is harmful to human health.
in addition, acidification and the release of sulphur dioxide into the atmosphere cause damage to fragile ecosystems, reduce biodiversity and damage agriculture and forests.
‒ i voted for this report because it is in favour of codifying a text which combats a form of pollution.
it is part of the fight against pollution and acidification by setting the maximum sulphur content of heavy fuel oil, gas oil, marine gas oil and marine diesel used in the union.
i agree with the directive's desire to protect fragile ecosystems, biodiversity, agriculture and forests.
these fuels contain high levels of sulphur which cause pollution and health problems in humans, which reduce biodiversity and harm agriculture and forests.
this text will help to combat pollution and acidification, which are damaging our environment.
‒ air pollution in the eu is very harmful to human health.
emissions from marine fuel ships have a high sulphur content, which contributes to air pollution and is harmful to human health.
in addition, acidification and the release of sulphur dioxide into the atmosphere cause damage to fragile ecosystems, reduce biodiversity and damage agriculture and forests.
it is a necessary countermeasure against pollution and acidification, which are damaging our environment.
emissions from marine fuel ships have a high sulphur content, which contributes to air pollution and is harmful to human health.
in addition, acidification and the release of sulphur dioxide into the atmosphere cause damage to fragile ecosystems, reduce biodiversity and damage agriculture and forests.
as it is merely a codification and as the codified text helps to combat pollution and acidification, which are damaging to our environment, i have no reason to oppose it and therefore i am voting for this report.
the purpose of the proposed codified directive is to reduce sulphur dioxide emissions from the combustion of certain types of liquid fuels and thus to reduce the harmful effects of these emissions on man and the environment.
the union and the individual member states are parties to the unece convention of 13 november 1979 on long-range transboundary air pollution.
that convention, and in particular the protocols thereto, have undergone developments in recent years to which the union must adapt, in accordance with its international commitments, but also in order to pursue its objectives of environmental protection and public health.
emissions from marine fuel ships have a high sulphur content, which contributes to air pollution and is harmful to human health.
in addition, acidification and the release of sulphur dioxide into the atmosphere cause damage to fragile ecosystems, reduce biodiversity and damage agriculture and forests.
‒ the purpose of this proposal for a directive is to provide safeguards for individuals aged between 18 and 21 years who are prosecuted in criminal proceedings where the alleged offence was committed before the age of 18. the text provides for a number of rights for suspects, such as the right to information, the right to mandatory assistance by a lawyer at every stage of the proceedings and the right to be the subject of a personalised assessment to take better account of the social environment in which the suspect has evolved.
the mobilisation of significant european budgetary resources did not allow the refugee crisis to be dealt with in an effective and sustainable manner in 2015 and 2016. this is why substantial additional financial resources are needed.
the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment.
in this debate, the socialists and democrats fought for the cost of non-europe - from a social, environmental, etc.
an analysis of the consequences for smes and regions, but also in terms of competitiveness and administrative burdens, will have to be provided in addition to the analysis of the economic, environmental and social impacts already in place.
tobacco-related pollution is also affecting the planet.
especially since the regulatory environment has changed.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally sound use of energy.
i would like to say that we have also taken into account the environmental impact - this was mentioned by one of our colleagues.
if i have a message to send now to conclude - i really appeal to all of you - it is that we need a good majority for this report, because that would allow us to put pressure on the council to waste as little time as possible in negotiating with it.
i am surprised that the same people who refuse to take account of an international approach in this area, at the same time want to remove the taking into account of sovereign debts in a sustainable way and, for themselves, refuse to make sovereign debts a tool that escapes speculation, by subjecting them to taxation on financial transactions.
the text will also improve product availability and administrative simplification, without sacrificing public health and environmental protection.
the report focuses on improving access to medicines, innovation and respect for the environment.
we have advocated and obtained strong environmental and animal protection as criteria on impact assessment and the ban on online sales for antibiotics, vaccines and psychotropic products.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the fight for quality, in compliance with animal welfare, and in particular with directive 2008/120/ec on the protection of pigs, must not penalise french producers in the face of certain states that do not pay much attention to standards or to the import of pigmeat from non-european countries, whose social, health or environmental standards are not identical to ours.
finally, far beyond pork, the whole of agriculture is in crisis, and if europe is to remain a sustainable agricultural power, action is urgently needed.
mr president, banning glyphosate, without accompanying measures and a medium and long-term vision, would have a damaging impact on the already crisis-ridden agricultural sector and would be counterproductive in terms of health and environmental safety.
the real objective of the 480 000 citizens who called this referendum was to disavow the european union and its leaders, the european union and its bankruptcy in the face of the migration crisis its leaders, who accumulate scandals: luxleaks for jean-claude juncker and panama papers for the energy commissioner, miguel arias cañete.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionising radiation.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionizing radiation.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it strengthens cooperation between the european union and greenland, while promoting the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in greenland's exclusive economic zone (eez).
i voted in favour of this agreement which respects the surplus rule and allows for greater cooperation between the european union and greenland while promoting the sustainable development of fisheries and the sustainable exploitation of fishery resources in the greenland fishing zone.
it strengthens cooperation between the union and greenland and promotes a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in greenland's fishing zone.
i believe that greenland's marine resources can be a real asset for the european union in terms of sustainable consumption, and i supported this report.
this protocol promotes cooperation between the european union and greenland and allows the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fishery resources in greenland's fishing zone.
the new protocol strengthens cooperation between the union and greenland, allows the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of marine resources in greenland's fishing zone.
the quotas to be fished are scientifically established and aim to promote sustainable fishing.
given the economic challenges facing all parties, but also the importance of achieving a sustainable and responsible fisheries policy, which the work of the european commission must make possible, the renewal of the protocol addresses all the issues at stake.
the text, which is intended to run for five years, is in line with the objectives of the common fisheries policy and promotes a partnership between the eu and greenland that will enable sustainable and responsible fishing.
i supported this report because it does, however, call for the establishment of sustainable fishing for certain fish stocks, greater attention to scientific advice and increased monitoring, and an adaptation of the union's financial contribution to the ex post evaluation of the fishing opportunities provided for in the protocol.
almost all the products we buy are subject to vat: food, clothing, energy, furniture, etc.
‒ this report highlights the fact that intensive fishing in international waters is a serious threat to marine biodiversity and no longer ensures the conservation and exploitation of its resources.
i abstained on this text because, although this report is a good one in strengthening the protection of marine biodiversity, the un convention risks creating management tools that are beyond the reach of the member states.
‒ there is an urgent need to implement measures for the conservation and sustainable exploitation of marine biodiversity in areas beyond national jurisdiction.
however, i would point out that the protection of marine biodiversity must be part of an international, not just a european, framework in order to be fully effective.
‒ if the legal framework in international law for the high seas (seas beyond the jurisdiction of states, or 64% of the seas), developed over thirty years ago and based on the principle of freedom of the high seas, no longer allows the conservation and sustainable exploitation of marine biodiversity, a strengthening of international legislation would have little effect on european fishermen, who are already subject to the most severe constraints in this area.
the existing legal framework is considered by the rapporteur to be outdated, particularly in terms of the protection of marine biodiversity and sustainable exploitation.
‒ the report finds that intensive fishing in international waters is a serious threat to marine biodiversity and no longer ensures the conservation and exploitation of its resources.
while this report is a good one in strengthening the protection of marine biodiversity, the un convention risks creating management tools beyond the reach of member states.
‒ the united nations is currently preparing a legally binding international agreement relating to the united nations convention on the law of the sea on the conservation and sustainable use of marine biodiversity in areas beyond national jurisdiction.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
these un instruments are effective and have proven their worth but could be better coordinated with other international biodiversity instruments.
‒ this own-initiative report makes a series of recommendations for the development of a legally binding international instrument for the conservation and sustainable use of marine biodiversity in areas outside national jurisdiction.
i voted in favour of this report because i believe that sustainable and responsible fishing is a prerequisite for the preservation of the fisheries sector in europe and the world.
this instrument concerns the conservation and sustainable use of marine biodiversity in areas outside national jurisdiction.
the measures in this report also underline the important role of the european union in ensuring the sustainable management of marine biological resources and recommend that the european union continue to be active in the development and implementation of this new instrument.
‒ the creation of marine protected areas and management tools at global level, including for ship registration and scientific monitoring of new exploitation activities, can help to preserve marine biodiversity.
due to concerns and debates in the international community regarding the effectiveness of the current framework to address the conservation and sustainable use of marine resources beyond areas of national jurisdiction, an ad hoc working group at the united nations recommended the development of a legally binding international instrument on the conservation and sustainable use of marine biodiversity on the high seas.
i have endorsed this legislative proposal, which supports progress on the creation of international legislation for marine biodiversity.
‒ the report welcomes the decision of the un general assembly to develop, under unclos, a legally binding international instrument on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of marine biodiversity in areas beyond the limits of national jurisdiction.
the rapporteur believes that the existing legal framework, which was drawn up more than 30 years ago on the basis of the principle of freedom of the high seas, no longer allows for the conservation and sustainable exploitation of marine biodiversity.
fisheries is obviously an activity that has a significant impact on marine biodiversity and will therefore be covered by all conservation and management measures.
however, if international legislation were to be strengthened, this would have little impact on european fishermen, who already face the greatest constraints in achieving maximum sustainable yield.
‒ the report looks at the legal framework that governs international waters, representing 64% of the seas, and ensures the conservation and sustainable exploitation of marine biodiversity.
this framework, established over 30 years ago, shows its limits and is no longer sufficient to protect marine biodiversity from mass fishing.
- never in its 200,000 years of history has the human species weighed so heavily on its ecosystem.
food, fresh water and energy will come from the sea, if the conditions for exploiting the oceans break with the selfish and short-term logic.
the united nations convention on the law of the sea develops, in the framework of a new international agreement, an internationally legally binding instrument for the conservation and management of marine biodiversity.
‒ the international legal framework for protecting biodiversity is outdated, according to the rapporteur.
‒ the rapporteur believes that the existing legal framework, which was developed over 30 years ago on the basis of the principle of freedom of the high seas, no longer ensures the conservation and sustainable exploitation of marine biodiversity.
in response to concerns and debates in the international community about the effectiveness of the current framework to address the issue of the conservation and sustainable use of marine resources beyond areas of national jurisdiction, an informal, open-ended ad hoc working group was established in 2004 by paragraph 73 of un general assembly resolution 59/24.
in january 2015, the working group presented its latest report, highlighting the need for a comprehensive global system to better address this issue and recommended the development of a legally binding international instrument relating to the united nations convention on the law of the sea (unclos) and addressing the conservation and sustainable use of marine biodiversity in areas beyond national jurisdiction.
‒ recalling the positions of the united nations and the international community on the law of the sea, the report that parliament has just adopted calls for the establishment of a legally binding instrument by the end of 2017 for the conservation and sustainable use of marine biodiversity in areas outside national jurisdiction.
i voted in favour of this own-initiative report on the un resolution on the development of a legally binding international instrument on the conservation and sustainable use of marine biological diversity in areas beyond national jurisdiction, adopted in june 2015. the report supports this resolution, while emphasising the rapid growth and expansion of maritime activities and their potentially negative impact, in particular on industrial fisheries.
this future agreement will deal with the conservation and sustainable use of marine biodiversity in marine areas outside national jurisdiction.
although this new un instrument joins existing mechanisms that have proved their worth, i call for better coordination with other international mechanisms for the conservation of biodiversity.
in 2004, the united nations established an informal ad hoc working group on the effectiveness of the current framework to address conservation and sustainable use of marine resources beyond areas of national jurisdiction that are regulated.
the working group published its last report in january 2015 advocating the development of a legally binding instrument on the conservation and sustainable use of marine biodiversity in these areas beyond national jurisdiction.
in this text, parliament considers that the european union and especially the member states should act in favour of marine biodiversity by applying modern and sustainable concepts of marine ecosystem management.
i supported this text which reaffirms its commitment to implement such an instrument before the end of 2017 in order to preserve the marine ecosystem.
‒ the legal framework on international waters is no longer sufficient to control biodiversity conservation.
the report states that the european union is a key player in the protection of biodiversity.
however, the growth and expansion of maritime activities, in particular industrial fishing, and their potentially negative impact on fisheries resources and biodiversity, make it urgent to protect these areas better.
this is good for the protection of these areas and their biodiversity.
these breeds, adapted to difficult production conditions and their ecosystem, allow small farms to develop quality food chains that, while meeting consumer demands, preserve employment in rural areas.
in addition to preserving biodiversity, the new regulation aims to strengthen the guarantee of traceability for citizens who are increasingly concerned about the origin of the food they consume.
on a more global level, european agriculture and the cap of tomorrow must promote an extensive development model that respects territories, biodiversity and local resources.
livestock farming plays a fundamental role in the conservation of rare species and thus in the protection of biodiversity.
131); the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
since it is impossible to live in a geography of constant migration, the report proposes to tackle decisively the root causes of migration: war, persecution, poverty, climate change.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
it is particularly interesting to note the commission's commitment to consider less stringent rules for smes where this is reasonable and feasible, while checking the environmental, social and economic impacts of the proposed draft legislative act.
it called on the commission not to reduce its ambitions to reduce the administrative burden on smes and not to call into question the general interest objectives pursued, particularly in the areas of consumer protection, the environment, social protection, health and safety.
in these circumstances, it must not lead to a weakening of standards in social, environmental, consumer and worker protection matters.
legislation must be understood by all, but it must also increase the protection of europeans by guaranteeing high social, health, safety and environmental standards.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in the current economic context, this improvement is necessary to provide european businesses with a regulatory environment that will enhance their competitiveness and recruitment.
the report also calls for the creation of a european network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment, and for the establishment of a european network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment.
the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment.
the commission's proposal is to set up a european network of experts to assist the member states in the implementation of the eu's policy on the environment.
that is why i supported this report which, taking into account the amendments tabled by my colleague sylvie goddyn, advocates defending small-scale fishing against industrial fishing - industrial fishing receiving 80% of the union's fishing quotas when it represents only 20% of the fishermen - by providing supplementary income opportunities for small-scale fishermen in the form of subsidies for tourism, culture or environmental services, or by supporting technological innovation and scientific research programmes in fisheries.
‒ i wanted to support this report which is in favour of small-scale coastal fishing, which provides a high level of employment in coastal areas and a more sustainable fishery.
it should be noted that industrial fishing has so far been much better off in terms of quotas, which is why i welcome the measures proposed by the rapporteur in this report, since they include: the creation of local fisheries action groups (lags), support for the development of complementary activities for fishermen, such as environmental services or tourism, or the promotion of technological innovation in terms of products, equipment, techniques, etc.
‒ small-scale coastal fishing must be defended against industrial fishing, both because it creates jobs in coastal areas and the outermost regions and because it is a more sustainable form of fishing.
small-scale fishing provides jobs in coastal areas and is socially and ecologically sustainable.
it is therefore important that the european union should provide the small-scale coastal fishing sector with appropriate regulation and promote innovative projects to ensure the economic and sustainable development of coastal, island and outermost regions.
yet its fishermen receive only 20% of the eu's allocated quotas, even though it is a more sustainable form of fishing.
it is particularly important because it is a major source of employment and a socially and ecologically sustainable form of fishing.
this traditional and sustainable activity contributes to the dynamism and employment of coastal areas and the outermost regions.
it proposes a number of measures to this end, such as preferential access to traditional coastal fishing up to 12 nautical miles (22.2 km), support for the development of complementary activities for fishermen (environmental services, tourism, etc.)
‒ i am in favour of small-scale fishing, especially since it is truly sustainable and creates a large number of jobs.
this report focuses on small-scale coastal fishing, which is practised by the majority of european and french fishermen, provides a high level of employment in coastal and outermost regions and is also a more sustainable form of fishing.
‒ i support the development of small-scale coastal fishing, which is fundamental from the point of view of social and economic cohesion as well as environmental protection, but which was not sufficiently recognised in the former common fisheries policy.
it is particularly important because it is a major source of employment in coastal areas and is a socially and ecologically sustainable form of fishing.
‒ in addition to providing jobs, coastal fishing is socially and ecologically sustainable.
i voted in favour of this report, which proposes measures to promote innovation and diversification in small-scale coastal fishing, in order to preserve artisanal and ecologically sustainable fishing methods and the traditional livelihoods that depend on them.
the measures proposed include the regionalisation of fleet management, the specific nature of island communities, a fairer allocation of quotas for small-scale fisheries, the protection of the environment and socioeconomic diversity, and more technical measures such as the prioritisation of the emff for small-scale fisheries or the classification of fishing gear.
my amendments on the outermost regions, recommending in particular a better exchange of information and good practice between the various outermost fishing zones and calling for the development of local distribution channels and the potential of the oceans, coastal areas and coastal areas in terms of development, jobs, energy self-sufficiency, innovation and sustainable development, have all been adopted and incorporated into the report.
‒ the inclusion of sustainable development in the common fisheries policy has been an objective pursued by my group, the gue/ngl, for several years.
developing socially and ecologically sustainable fisheries while contributing to the development of alternative forms of fishing is the only way to enable sustainable growth in fisheries-dependent regions.
however, since the necessary balance between economic, social and environmental interests is tending to disappear, better consideration of small-scale fishing in these regions would therefore help to meet these different objectives.
the report proposes new frameworks for the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources and intends to take account in particular of environmental protection and the socioeconomic diversity of coastal regions.
supporting local development and sustainable fisheries is key to preventing the demolition of fleets.
‒ the main objective of this report is to assess the impact of the external dimension of the european union in order to determine whether the fisheries being exploited are environmentally, socially and economically sustainable.
‒ i have approved this report on the eu's common fisheries policy (cfp) because it aims to align it with environmental, social and economic objectives: it proposes a break in trade relations with countries engaged in illegal fishing, and a framework is created for agreements between european companies and third countries or their companies in order to improve transparency and avoid competition with local fisheries.
‒ i voted in favour of this report, which seeks in particular to determine the impact of the external dimension of the common fisheries policy in order to know its consequences from an environmental, social and economic point of view.
‒ to determine whether the fisheries are environmentally, socially and economically sustainable, the impact of the union's external dimension must be known.
the aim of this report is to assess the impact of the external dimension of the union in order to determine whether the fisheries being exploited are environmentally, socially and economically sustainable.
i therefore voted in favour of this report which is concerned with the environment and local fisheries.
the european union has a leading role to play in the global governance of the seas and oceans to promote sustainable fisheries.
the union's high environmental and social standards must be promoted internationally in order to move towards more transparent fisheries management, ensuring product traceability, protecting artisanal fisheries and preserving fisheries resources.
the text examines whether or not the fisheries concerned are sustainable from an environmental, social and economic point of view.
‒ vote for: the main objective is to know the impact of the external dimension of the european union, in order to determine whether the fisheries are environmentally, socially and economically sustainable.
‒ the main objective is to know the impact of the external dimension of the european union, in order to determine whether the fisheries are environmentally, socially and economically sustainable.
the marketing of fishery products in the union is constrained by a number of regulations which contribute to the emergence of a european industry with a competitive advantage, by improving fisheries from the point of view of environmental and social sustainability.
the report aims to strengthen the eu's role in the international arena of the common fisheries policy to promote sustainable, environmentally responsible fishing standards with a high level of social protection.
the rapporteur therefore wanted to know the impact of this policy on the environment, social and economic aspects.
‒ in the face of overfishing and the fierce and often unfair competition that is now rife in all oceans, the european union must use its international influence to promote a sustainable fishing model based on respect for human rights.
in particular, it aims to emphasise compliance with social and environmental standards, by involving transnational companies more to avoid competition with local fisheries.
it encourages the union in its efforts to be transparent, to combat iuu (illegal, unreported and unregulated) fishing and to promote 'high environmental and social standards'.
‒ the aim is to know the external dimension of the cfp to know whether the fisheries as they are practised are sustainable.
the main objective is to determine whether the fisheries are environmentally, socially and economically sustainable.
the main objective of this text is to know the impact of the external dimension of the eu's common fisheries policy, in order to determine whether fishing on the high seas or in the waters of a third country is environmentally, socially and economically sustainable.
‒ while china, korea and taiwan are pursuing aggressive, heavily subsidised and low taxed fisheries policies, and have less stringent environmental, social and safety standards than we impose on ourselves in europe, it is essential that the european union, which represents the largest market for fishery products in the world, has an external vision of the policy to be pursued in this area.
these rules help to create conditions that give european industry a competitive advantage by improving fisheries' environmental and social sustainability, by strictly applying international conventions and by regulating the market.
‒ following up on the text on support for coastal fishing activities, the european parliament recalled the measures taken by the union to promote sustainable fishing (traceability measures, catch verification, the fight against illegal fishing, etc.).
by adopting this text, we are proposing new measures to provide greater protection for sustainable fisheries in the union.
the main objective of the report is to assess the impact of the external dimension of the union in order to determine whether the fisheries are environmentally, socially and economically sustainable.
the text reaffirms that multilateralism and international cooperation must be the preferred platforms for the effective and sustainable management of global fisheries resources.
in bilateral agreements, the focus should be on environmentally, economically and socially sustainable fisheries.
i supported this report, which recalls that the union must promote, within the external dimension of the cfp, very high environmental and social standards such as the promotion of sustainable aquaculture or the inclusion of instruments to protect workers and guarantee decent working conditions.
‒ the main objective is to know the impact of the external dimension of the european union in order to determine whether the fisheries are environmentally, socially and economically sustainable.
it is therefore essential to ensure that our fishermen have the best possible conditions for their work, while respecting marine biodiversity.
the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy is an empty shell with no influence on world affairs and a waste of european taxpayers' money.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally sound use of energy.
the court is composed of 28 members (one from each member state) appointed by the council, after consulting the parliament, for a renewable term of six years.
the court is composed of 28 members (one from each member state) appointed by the council, after consulting the parliament, for a renewable term of six years.
the court is composed of 28 members (one from each member state) appointed by the council, after consulting the parliament, for a renewable term of six years.
the court is composed of 28 members (one from each member state) appointed by the council, after consulting the parliament, for a renewable term of six years.
the court is composed of 28 members (one from each member state) appointed by the council, after consulting the parliament, for a renewable term of six years.
‒ i regret that the european parliament did not follow our committee on the environment, public health and food safety, which had called for a ban on glyphosate.
in addition, without a technically and economically viable alternative, this decision would have a counterproductive impact in terms of health and environmental safety.
the health risks associated with the use of this herbicide arise from the fact that glyphosate residues are present in the environment and in many everyday consumer products and are not metabolised by humans.
the seven-year period will thus make it possible to find a way out of the situation which takes account of the challenges facing agriculture, but also of the defence of citizens and the environment.
parliament would have been much better off refusing this authorization as i did and as its committee on the environment was advocating.
research into the possible impact of glyphosate on our environment must continue.
i voted against the parliament's resolution validating the renewal of the marketing authorisation for glyphosate, an active substance in herbicides (such as roundup) which is dangerous to the environment and human health.
there are real uncertainties about this product, including its effects on human and animal health and the environment.
so, in addition to being an environmental problem, the renewal of this substance is also a real public health problem.
on 22 march, the european parliament's environment committee adopted a resolution to prevent the european commission from renewing the authorisation for the use and sale of the herbicide.
the environment and public health committee of the european parliament has spoken out categorically against the renewal of this authorization.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that europe must finally speak with one voice on the international scene, facing global challenges and acting in a world environment that is constantly changing (terrorism, the migrant crisis, political instability in the mediterranean region, etc.).
‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague sandra kalniete on the european union in a changing global environment.
this new strategy seeks to respond to the changing and uncertain regional security environment, to provide the european union with greater resilience and to stabilise our immediate neighbourhood.
‒ i voted against the report on 'the european union in a changing global environment - a more connected, more contested and more complex world'.
the background is overwhelming: 'the united states is the union's main strategic partner', energy is a nuisance to russia, migrants are terrorists and the un is just an analytical body.
this report with its boisterous title aims at nothing less than paving the way for a strong political ambition for the eu as an international actor, and to increase its security and defence competences at the expense of the member states (nationalization of losses, europeanization of profits) in the face of the deterioration of its immediate strategic environment .
but should the eu be reminded that it has thrown oil on the fire of its immediate environment, if not itself, to serve interests foreign to its member states?
it uses the ecological alibi to legitimize its international role, for example, or it boasts of its enhanced cooperation programme, which amounts to giving money in return for adopting the european vision of human rights.
it emphasises the importance of regional cooperation in achieving long-term sustainable results and advocates the strengthening of democracy, human rights and good governance.
the resolution also stresses the growing importance of trade and energy relations with central asia.
the european union must therefore be able to develop privileged relations with these countries to strengthen trade and energy relations.
the report stresses, however, the importance of respect for human rights by these countries and of an intensive dialogue on infrastructure development, particularly in the areas of energy, the environment and water management.
the green rapporteur tried to minimise social and environmental impacts and to insist on cooperation for regional development with the major players involved, russia and china, which are committed to the new silk road.
the sole objective of this report on the "implementation and review of the eu strategy for central asia" is obviously to seek, by any means, energy independence for the union from russia, by going to "steal" resources in central asia while minimizing social and environmental impacts, and disregarding sacrosanct human rights.
i also deny that the union has any competence in energy policy, which is a highly strategic area.
it emphasises the importance of regional cooperation in achieving long-term sustainable results.
it also involves greater cooperation in the energy sector, since central asia is a potential additional source of energy security for the union.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
‒ in view of the amateurism of the envi (environment, public health and food safety) committee in relation to the zika epidemic, which led to the withdrawal of the co-rapporteur and member of the enl group, dr joëlle mélin, i cannot support the project: the votes on the measures needed to contain the epidemic take place three months after the enl group's request for registration of the zika epidemic in the emergency procedure and the who declaration of emergency.
the european parliament's committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has called for the introduction of a new health policy for the eu.
the house also called for the commission to be given the power to adopt the necessary legislative measures to ensure that the rules on the protection of the environment are respected.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution by my colleagues in the committee on the environment on the zika virus disease outbreak.
an oral question and a motion for a resolution have been prepared by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
it was a waste.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
this also applies when it comes to using eu money efficiently and in a sustainable targeted manner, but there has to be a national strategy in the relevant areas.
how many health, environmental and human scandals have been hushed up because of the institutions' inability to obtain information classified as "confidential"?
it is true that we have worked in a climate of urgency and mourning over the attacks in brussels to arrive, it must be said, at budgetary estimates for the year 2017 which i think are, at this stage, balanced and reasonable.
mr president, the europe 2020 strategy aims to lift 20 million people out of poverty, and its main target is to raise the cost of housing, energy and education.
secondly, to encourage expenditure reductions by ensuring that the various european funds, such as the esi funds, are better allocated to poor households to combat energy poverty and by encouraging the fiscal shift towards taxing the energy industries to reduce the burden on labour costs.
mr president, the urgency of the untenable situations for millions of europeans who are faced with energy poverty in unhealthy housing or who lack stable resources should be a wake-up call.
from 2008 to 2013, the number of people at risk of poverty or exclusion in the union increased from 117 million to 123 million, despite the target to reduce it by at least 20 million by 2020. the situation with regard to energy is dramatic.
to answer this question, yes, we need a european observatory on energy poverty to shed light on the social reality of this invisible suffering of energy poverty.
this will not only reduce household energy bills, but also reduce greenhouse gases and, to top it all off, create jobs that cannot be relocated.
so, commissioner, in a context where energy prices are about to explode, your role is twofold.
first, you must encourage member states to define what energy poverty is and thus improve the performance of energy-intensive buildings, with long-term financial levers.
the second thing, madam commissioner, is to put in place measures to reduce energy costs for the most vulnerable households.
the european parliament has also called for the adoption of a directive on the protection of workers from the risks of exposure to carcinogens and the dangers of carcinogens in the environment.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment by the use of radioactive substances.
today, only five member states have specific legislation on whistleblower protection; the commission has already taken a number of measures to protect the environment.
in a complex competitive environment, legal protection of trade secrets is essential for innovation.
it will make it possible to harmonise the disparate national rules on protection and sanction of know-how by providing a common legal basis for all member states to establish a climate of confidence in trade between european companies, thus protecting their know-how and intangible heritage.
for example, trade secrets have been regularly invoked in the united states with regard to the composition of products used for the extraction of shale gas, despite the risks these products pose to the environment.
by voting for this text, the european parliament is promoting a safe and reliable environment for companies that need to see their know-how fully protected.
the directive thus guarantees journalists full protection when their action is used to denounce an illegal practice and, more broadly, when it is motivated by the defence of the general interest (public safety and health, consumer and environmental protection, etc.).
in other words, large companies will be able to hide crucial information such as health or environmental information!
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
if cooperation between turkey and the union is legitimately to be strengthened in the field of energy security, the fight against terrorism or the refugee crisis, it is an irresponsible lie to the citizens, both european and turkish, to falsely maintain the illusion that turkey is destined to join the european union.
‒ this report, which remains in the context of albania's accession to the european union, multiplies attempts to interfere in the country's territorial or energy policies.
the attempts of the parliament to interfere in the internal politics of the country, in the energy or ecological fields, are also noteworthy.
the report's concerns are that there is no unified single economic zone in the territory, "which is detrimental to the business environment".
‒ this report, which is part of the europe 2020 strategy to lift 20 million people out of poverty by 2020, focuses on family poverty in the context of rising housing, energy and education costs, with the aim of increasing the incomes of poor households by introducing a minimum wage and reducing their expenditure by introducing a tax shift towards energy-intensive industries or subsidies from eu funds.
this text focuses in particular on the poverty of families in the context of the rising cost of housing, energy, and education.
‒ this own-initiative report looks at the possible impact of energy and consumer price policies on poverty, particularly for disadvantaged groups.
i supported this report which analyses the possible impact of energy and consumer price policies on poverty.
in this context, it seemed important to me to support a european definition of energy poverty.
this text focuses in particular on the poverty of families in the context of the rising cost of housing, energy and education.
in addition, it is up to each member state to solve the poverty of families and to find a way to provide them with housing, energy and access to education.
in order to meet the poverty reduction objective of the europe 2020 strategy and the objectives of improving energy efficiency, reducing greenhouse gas emissions and using renewable energy, the report focuses union action on access to housing and the fight against energy poverty.
this report makes proposals to achieve these objectives in a difficult economic environment in many member states.
that is why, in voting for this report, i have defended my commitment to the sustainability of the european fund for the most deprived and the european social fund, which must be increased to meet this challenge.
the definition of energy poverty in the report is also welcome, as it provides a clearer picture of the issues we are facing.
for example, access to energy, and particularly heating, is a lever we can use.
finally, member states will have to ensure that the authorities at the various territorial levels effectively mobilise european funds which can help to combat energy poverty, social exclusion or poor housing quality.
this text focuses in particular on the poverty of families in the context of the rising cost of housing, energy, and education.
this is contrary to the europe 2020 strategy's target of reducing by at least 20 million the number of people living in or at risk of poverty by 2020. the report adopted calls on the commission and the member states to adopt a comprehensive approach to combating poverty by combining social, economic, education, employment, energy and transport policies and to sign a moratorium on winter heating cuts.
moreover, the report makes no provision for addressing the uncertainties caused by substantial economic growth, such as the increase in demand for water or energy.
the main option proposed is unbridled growth when the economic or ecological situation makes this impossible and a continuously upward curve is unlikely.
it is believed that the main sectors of development that are conducive to development are energy, electricity or transport.
the text also stresses bureaucracy problems or important issues such as sustainable development, which is obviously not enough for the development of the countries concerned.
‒ this own-initiative report sets out a framework for action to strengthen the role of the private sector in developing countries, with a view to achieving inclusive and sustainable growth.
it is stated that taxpayers would probably not be inclined to pay this... the report is entirely focused on the concept of unlimited growth, with the consequent increase in demand for energy, food and water, without, of course, indicating any recipe for answering these very serious questions.
it also has a role to play as an investor in sustainable agricultural production to meet the challenge of feeding 9 billion people by 2050.
in writing.
the dogma of (unlimited) growth is also reaffirmed, linked to that of sustainable development.
furthermore, i believe that sustainable development is a charm that masks the madness and damage of the project.
the development envisaged is purely illusory and no investment is proposed to solve the serious problems (food, water, energy).
it also has a role to play as an investor in sustainable agricultural production to meet the challenge of feeding 9 billion people by 2050. given the capacity of the private sector to generate inclusive and sustainable growth in developing countries, businesses, associations and employers' and workers' organisations in particular are playing an increasingly active role in the field of development, both as a source of funding and as partners of public authorities, non-governmental organisations (ngos).
i therefore voted in favour of this text to support the european parliament's work on development aid and to enable the proposed strategic framework to be put in place to strengthen the role of the private sector, and thus achieve inclusive and sustainable growth.
the aim is to encourage european and international businesses to contribute to the sustainable development goals and the implementation of internationally agreed standards.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies.
i would go even further: we need a european typeapproval agency, starting today, for emissions testing and tomorrow for automation.
on the contrary, let us make the automated car a pillar of sustainable urban mobility by developing, for example, the car-sharing system.
parliament voted to set up a scoreboard to select projects on the basis of their social and environmental added value.
madam president, the complex architecture of the european union leads to misallocations, exorbitant costs, unacceptable waste and an opacity both in terms of technical and control aspects which distances the european problem from the peoples and nations.
mr president, mr president, madam commissioner, europe has spent a great deal of time, energy and money over the years on restructuring the railway sector: defining the trans-european networks, putting in place new regulatory, technical and financial means to support their development and, through the technical pillar of the fourth railway package, defragmenting the networks by means of regulatory, regulatory and technical interconnection.
i am against the very existence of this agency, which has no democratic legitimacy and whose opinions are of no use, so to ask for their opinion seems to me to be a waste of time and money.
finally, i think that their advice is not useful to us and that it would be a total waste to continue in this way.
it is the european equivalent of the french economic, social and environmental council.
in the fight against climate change, europe has a great tool to promote rail mobility, which is much more environmentally sustainable.
although rail provides mass, fast, ecological and european-wide transport, it is steadily losing its attractiveness compared to other modes of transport.
for my part, i cannot separate the so-called technical aspects from the political aspects of these 'railway packages' which are part of the logic of 'increasing the competitiveness and interoperability' of european railways by removing 'barriers to competition, discrimination and the absence of a liberalised, dynamic and business-friendly environment' and this without even the slightest assessment of the previous 'packages'.
cac 40), indices on rates (monetary, foreign exchange), on the price of raw materials, or even on meteorology or energy prices.
meteorology, energy prices).
nevertheless, i opposed paragraph 22 of the resolution, which calls 'once again for parliament and the council, in order to generate sustainable savings, to establish a road map for a single seat, the need for which has been stressed by parliament in several of its previous resolutions'.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the council also called for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information centres for the protection of the environment.
the council also called for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information centres for the protection of the environment.
other points of satisfaction to mention are its first steps towards a paperless environment and its efforts to improve the gender balance among its staff.
‒ this discharge concerns the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators with a final budget of the agency for the financial year 2014 of eur 10.880.000, which represents an increase of 8.8% compared to 2013. the agency's entire budget is drawn from the eu budget.
at a time when budgetary savings are essential, the 2014 budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators is increasing by 8,8% compared to 2013. the report also states that the high proportion of carryovers and prefinancing payments is contrary to the principle of budgetary annuality.
‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the director of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing.
‒ i voted against the discharge to the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer).
‒ the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) helps to ensure the proper functioning of the european gas and electricity market.
‒ this report proposes to give a discharge to the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) for the implementation of its 2014 budget.
‒ the report was to give a ruling on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators.
‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2014.
in writing.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally sound use of energy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
the final budget of the authority for the financial year 2014 was eur 33 599 863, representing an increase of 29,39% compared to 2013. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
finally, its 2014 activity highlighted some surprising and completely forbidden practices: for example, in a letter dated 20 april 2016, it plans to reopen 700 files to verify their completeness and to give applicants a "reasonable time" to complete them, which is quite astonishing considering that these are potentially dangerous products for health and the environment.
‒ the main task of the environment agency is to provide information and advice to the member states.
‒ the environment agency informs and advises member states on their energy and sustainable development policies.
its budget is constantly increasing (+ 25% compared to 2014) and confirms the control of the union institutions over environmental policies in the member states.
‒ the european environment agency helps member countries to integrate environmental considerations into economic policies in order to improve the state of the environment.
it also coordinates the european environment information and observation network and is therefore an important and independent source of information for the member states.
‒ this report proposes to grant discharge to the european environment agency for the financial year 2014. in charge of providing reliable and independent information on the state of the environment and helping the union and its member states to take informed decisions to improve the environment, to mainstream environmental and sustainable considerations into european policies, the agency received a budget of eur 52 573 071 for the year 2014, an increase of 6,70% compared to 2013 (76,81% of the agency's budget comes from the union budget).
‒ the environment agency has a mainly information and advisory role with the member states.
‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the executive director of the european environment agency (eea) discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing.
‒ i voted against the discharge to the european environment agency (eea).
‒ the european environment agency (eea) is audited annually on its budget by the european court of auditors.
with a budget of €52.6 million (up 25% on 2015) and a staff of 135, the european environment agency provides information and advice to the member states.
‒ this report proposes to give a discharge to the european environment agency (eea) for the implementation of its 2014 budget.
‒ the report was to give a ruling on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the european environment agency.
‒ the environment agency has essentially an information and advisory mission to the member states.
‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency (eea) for the financial year 2014.
in writing.
to this end, the eit helps businesses and education and research institutions to work together to create an environment conducive to innovation and entrepreneurship in europe.
the report notes that internal standards have been developed to increase the efficiency and availability of its services; the agency would have made sure to move firmly towards a paperless working mode, through a platform for sharing and storing documents on computers, to better comply with environmental standards.
‒ at first glance, the european union agency for network and information security (enisa) seems to have managed its budget well in 2014. it has deployed a number of measures to improve its internal functioning, such as the shift towards digital work, in compliance with environmental standards.
it should also be noted that the rapporteur considered it appropriate to ask the agency once again to include in its future management reports a section devoted to transparency and integrity; the commission has also proposed that the agency should be given the task of ensuring that the agency's activities are carried out in accordance with the principles of the european union's policy on the environment.
the rapporteur also calls for the establishment of a european network of experts in the field of the environment, and for the commission to be able to provide the necessary information to the member states.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
‒ this report calls for the discharge to be given to the clean sky joint undertaking for the development of new technologies to ensure clean and pollution-free airspace.
a real waste of budget which deserves to be highlighted and reformed.
‒ i opposed this report requesting discharge on the implementation of the budget of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. it should be remembered that the contribution of each member - the european commission, the industry for a new energy world group and other research groups - is not clearly defined, even though they do not contribute in equal shares.
‒ the report focuses on the specificity of the members of the fuel cells and hydrogen 2 joint undertaking, here the union, represented by the commission, the industry for a new energy world group and the new research groups on fuel cells and hydrogen.
the report reviews the specific features of the members of the joint undertaking, the union (represented by the commission), the industry for a new energy world group and the new fuel cell and hydrogen research groups.
each company has several members, namely the european union (represented by the commission), the industry for a new energy world group and other fuel cell and hydrogen research groups.
‒ the joint undertaking for iter (international experimental project to scientifically and technically demonstrate the feasibility of using fusion as an energy source) and the development of fusion energy is a complex project, with many uncertainties.
the joint venture concerns research for the development of fusion energy.
‒ i voted in favour of this report postponing the decision on discharge to the director of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014. the company is in a difficult financial situation as the deficit by the completion of the construction phase of the project it is running will amount to eur 428 000 000. the committee on budgetary control also publicly stated that it rejected the proposed action plan of the new director-general.
it also advocates financial support for the fight against global warming, even if these commitments are not directly linked to the eib's original objective of supporting growth and job creation.
‒ this paper highlights the eib's impact on the european union's strategy to support the energy transition and policy to support job creation, particularly for smes and young people.
it even supports the 'carbon' and 'climate' commitments made by the eib, which are not directly linked to its mission.
it supports the eib's carbon and climate commitments, without being directly linked to its raison d'être of stimulating growth.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
a european public label for fishery products would provide reliable information based on a coherent set of sustainable criteria and recognised by consumers.
a single european label would guarantee compliance with high environmental, social and health standards.
this is a good agreement, because it allows european vessels to fish in mauritanian waters, while respecting a sustainable fisheries objective.
in a very predictable way, the colossal differences in wages and the very unequal social, health and environmental regulations have done their work, industries have left entire regions for the chinese skies, workers have been laid off by the millions and have often never found a job again.
young people have ideas, talent, energy.
these non-democratic technocratic procedures prevent europe from practicing the solidarity protectionism which is the ecological and social emergency of our time.
although this regulation does not put an end to unfair international competition to which our companies are exposed, particularly those within the european union, i voted in favour of this text which has the merit of tackling social and environmental dumping, particularly by emerging countries.
‒ i voted in favour of this agreement to establish a partnership between the european union and liberia in the field of sustainable fisheries.
‒ this eu-liberia partnership agreement on sustainable fisheries is to allow access to liberian waters for eu fishing vessels.
this is the first agreement between the european union and liberia which will allow eu vessels to fish in liberian waters in exchange for financial compensation to finance access to liberian waters and the development of a sustainable fisheries sector.
‒ this non-legislative report gives an overview of the state of play of the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement.
i believe that sustainable fisheries must be defended and developed at international level through clear, effective and ambitious partnership agreements, and i therefore supported this report.
the eu will thus be able to grant access to liberian territorial waters to eu vessels, while the union will provide financial support for the development of the sustainable fisheries sector in liberia.
‒ i voted in favour of this agreement, which will allow the european fleet to fish tuna in the liberian fishing zone for five years in exchange for eu financial compensation to promote sustainable fishing.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu-liberia partnership agreement on sustainable fisheries.
‒ i voted in favour of the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement, which is the first such agreement signed between the european union and liberia.
‒ i voted in favour of this report, which gives the european parliament's approval to the conclusion of the eu-liberia sustainable fisheries partnership agreement and the additional implementation protocol.
it should be recalled that this agreement with liberia is in line with the sustainable management of fisheries and aquaculture activities, as provided for in the common fisheries policy, but also that it has important mutual benefits for both parties.
‒ i voted in favour of the sustainable fisheries agreement between mauritania and the european union.
‒ the fisheries agreement between the european union and mauritania strikes a balance between access for european fishermen to surpluses off the mauritanian coast and protection of the marine environment and the renewal of stocks.
this compromise is in line with the new cfp objectives of more sustainable fisheries and more responsible management of marine resources.
‒ i voted in favour of the sustainable fisheries agreement between mauritania and the european union.
in addition, eur 16.5 million in financial aid is provided for the duration of the agreement to promote the sustainable development of fisheries and environmental protection.
‒ i voted in favour of the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement signed between the european union and mauritania, which follows the expiry of the one foreseen for the period 2012-2014. the agreement, which will be in force for the next four years, will allow european vessels to fish for shrimp, demersal, tuna and small pelagic fish in the mauritanian exclusive economic zone.
‒ i voted in favour of this report which encourages member states to use new instruments for projects to create quality jobs and opportunities for smes, to stimulate investment, sustainable and inclusive growth and social investment and to contribute to poverty reduction and social inclusion, especially in the regions and sub-regions where this is most needed.
it should also be noted that this text is part of the new territorial architecture proposed by the european commission, which, in the short term, may threaten the sustainability of crossborder cooperation.
mountain regions today face many problems, such as their difficult access, the low number of job opportunities, the aging population, the lack of connectivity, not to mention the impacts of climate change.
the maintenance of agricultural production in mountain areas is a major challenge in terms of employment and the environment.
the macro-regional strategy in the alpine, carpathian and ionian regions is simply aimed at strengthening the european commission's project for a new territorial architecture, which in the short term may threaten the sustainability of cross-border cooperation based on legitimate relations between nation states.
it is important to highlight the abundant natural resources and assets of mountain regions which contribute to a better social, economic and territorial cohesion by ensuring sustainable economic development in the mountains.
and while the report points to the difficulties faced by smes and farmers in mountain regions, particularly in terms of financing and cash flow, it does not call into question the decisions of the european commission, which is often responsible for these difficulties: the end of milk quotas, the russian embargo, environmental standards, administrative overload, etc.
the mountain regions, and in france we have many, have abundant natural resources, assets linked to the diversity of energy sources and are centres of green growth.
let us not exclude them from european policies and let us allow them to be pillars of sustainable growth and employment.
‒ while i agree that mountain regions are disadvantaged in terms of transport, unemployment and poverty, i would have preferred this report to highlight the causes of this poverty: it is clear that the european commission's policy on milk quotas, environmental standards and administrative overload has contributed considerably to the aggravation of this poverty.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the macro-regional strategy in the alps and the carpathians is therefore simply aimed at strengthening the commission's project for a new territorial architecture, which in the short term threatens the sustainability of crossborder cooperation based on healthy relations between member states.
the report highlights the development opportunities for growth and jobs, the strengthening of craft activities, tourism and renewable energy production, and the need to combat poverty and social exclusion in mountain areas.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the cohesion policy in the mountain regions of the european union because these regions have many assets which must be exploited, in particular through agricultural production, but also through sustainable tourism and the exploitation of renewable energy sources.
but they also have specificities that can be an asset, whether in terms of agriculture, biodiversity, resources or cultural heritage.
the european union should therefore encourage initiatives to strengthen agricultural production and develop sustainable tourism, but it should also pay particular attention to all the difficulties associated with the lack of infrastructure, such as access to broadband, as well as isolation, poverty and social exclusion.
the macro-regional strategy in the alpine, carpathian and ionian regions is simply aimed at strengthening the european commission's project for a new territorial architecture, which in the short term may threaten the sustainability of cross-border cooperation based on healthy relations between nation states.
‒ i voted in favour of this report, which highlights the potential for development of mountain regions, in particular through tourism and renewable energy, even though these mountain regions are in a special situation because of their natural and geographical handicaps.
and these territories also have underestimated challenges and strengths, particularly in terms of renewable energy, sustainable agriculture, the fight against climate change, especially through their glaciers, etc.
despite disagreements, such as the promotion of projects as questionable as the current lyon-turin high-speed train or public-private partnerships, i am voting for this text which takes into account the outermost regions and their volcanic islands, which live in the fragile and permanent balance of the threat of natural disaster and unique biodiversity.
the macro-regional strategy in the alpine, carpathian and ionian regions is simply aimed at strengthening the european commission's project for a new territorial architecture, which in the short term may threaten the sustainability of cross-border cooperation based on healthy relations between nation states.
the macro-regional strategy in the alpine, carpathian and ionian regions is simply aimed at strengthening the european commission's project for a new territorial architecture, which in the short term may threaten the sustainability of cross-border cooperation, the basis of healthy relations between nation states.
despite these difficulties, the european union and the member states must recognise the potential for growth and jobs in these areas, particularly in the fields of agriculture, tourism, sport and renewable energy.
our proposals concern in particular the issues of employment and growth in these regions, environmental protection against climate change, and accessibility and connectivity.
greater coherence will be achieved for the benefit of employment and economic growth in mountain areas, but also for sustainable growth, the environment and accessibility of these mountain areas.
i supported this text, which calls for special attention to be paid to the development of smes, to improve the marketing of agricultural products, to promote better access to public services, but also to concentrate european efforts on the use of renewable energies in these mountainous areas.
the macro-regional strategy in the alpine, carpathian and ionian regions is simply aimed at strengthening the european commission's project for a new territorial architecture, which in the short term may threaten the sustainability of cross-border cooperation based on healthy relations between nation states.
as early as 2009, they should have acknowledged their losses in order to bring the greek debt to a sustainable level and leave it to the national authorities to find the appropriate democratic answers to win the trust of the lenders they needed.
greece must rebuild its industry, rebuild its agriculture, and take on new responsibilities and new roads, particularly in the field of renewable energy.
the european union should question its legitimacy and credibility on sustainable development.
of the 17 goals on the sustainable development agenda, i would like to highlight the first four: poverty, hunger, health and education.
what legitimacy is there for sustainable development when the union's policy is causing a 47% increase in infant mortality in greece through its policy in favour of the banks against the greek people?
what credibility does the union have when it supports free trade and relocates its pollution while at the same time insisting on the un environmental objectives?
the revolution i propose to you is to use the capacity of the central bank, the 1 000 billion of current monetary creation, to invest it in a human project of sustainable development which would then be truly economic, social and environmental.
i was present at a camp in the bekaa valley in lebanon a few weeks ago, and i could see that schoolchildren were welcomed and smiled in a particularly difficult environment.
‒ commodity traders are investment firms whose main activity is to provide or provide investment services in the energy and commodity markets (food, industrial, etc.).
this will not solve everything, there are still obstacles: entry can always be refused on the basis of extremely vague criteria, residence permits are not issued for the full duration of the degree but on the basis of a renewable year.
‒ i voted in favour of this report which encourages member states to use the instruments for projects to create quality jobs and opportunities for smes, to stimulate investment, sustainable and inclusive growth and social investment and to contribute to poverty reduction and social inclusion, especially in the regions and sub-regions where this is most needed.
it targets all cities and regions of the union with the aim of supporting job creation, business competitiveness, economic growth, sustainable development and improving the quality of life of citizens.
in theory, cohesion policy is supposed to reduce economic, social and territorial disparities between regions and complement other european policies in the fields of education, employment, energy, the environment, research and innovation.
we must also use the leverage of credit, in particular the €1 trillion of monetary creation from the european central bank, so that it really serves the useful investment that creates jobs, production, ecological development and human development, and thus new services which are the essential tools to combat social and territorial inequalities.
but when you have meat that comes from your country versus meat that comes from the united states, you're still sensitive to co2, you're still sensitive to the resolution that we voted to reduce global warming.
the challenges are therefore not only energy-related, but also strategic and safety-related for the population basins that have adapted to the river's course.
mr president, with this oral question on the hydropower sector in europe, i wanted to draw the commission's attention to the very important role of hydropower: firstly, because it is a renewable and storable source of energy and contributes both to the decarbonisation of our economy, to the security of our supply systems and to european energy autonomy and independence; secondly, because the hydroelectric sector and the operation of the various dams contribute to the development of the territory and the maintenance of local employment.
the rushed opening of hydroelectric concessions to competition as is being discussed in some member states, while there would be no impact on others risks destabilising this ecosystem in the long term.
i therefore call on the commission to give this matter a quick thought, and i warn it not to open the door to a policy of 'double standards' which would be very detrimental to the energy union in europe.
mr president, with 16% of world electricity production, hydropower is the third largest source of electricity production in the world, and this is particularly important because it is vital energy for our territories, which represents thousands of jobs that cannot be relocated.
it is perfectly integrated into its human and natural environment, whether in urban, rural or mountain areas.
the rehabilitation of mills, abandoned sites and dams also contributes to the preservation of the architectural heritage, while providing an additional source of local energy revenues.
secondly, it is a decarbonised energy - as has already been said - which is fully in line with the european energy and environmental objectives.
but hydropower is not only a renewable energy source, it's also one of the few sectors that allows for storage.
we need a single discourse, we need a coherence between energy policy on the one hand and competition policy on the other.
we need a new text that sets out a framework that is understandable to all, that is applicable to all and that contributes to making water, here too, an energy europe.
the eu remains committed to supporting the gambian people in strengthening democracy, human rights and the rule of law and in building sustainable and inclusive development on the basis of the cotonou agreement.
such a measure, which in theory would allow for a certain degree of visibility, would in reality lead to the abolition of national labels, which often have higher environmental and health standards: we cannot afford to take the risk of harmonization which would lower the level of french health safety.
since 2010, i have been advocating the creation of a single european label for fishery products, which would allow the voluntary information (ethical, social, environmental) to be concentrated.
i also support the idea that a single european label would benefit the consumer and the producer by establishing compliance with a number of environmental and health standards and by providing greater transparency and visibility of the traceability of fishery and aquaculture products.
the label could provide consumers with assurance that the products they consume are in line with ethical, social and environmental commitments and restore lost trust.
finally, china's overcapacity is already having major social, economic and environmental consequences in the union, and we hope that the commission will take into account the concerns expressed by the industrial sector.
china remains a heavily subsidised economy which keeps sales prices artificially low, combined with a social and environmental decline which the european union cannot support.
‒ the proposed resolution calls in particular on the commission to produce a communication ahead of the united nations high-level political forum on sustainable development in september 2016, which will be held at the un with all member countries.
these are essentially measures based on prohibitions, regulations, taxes and environmental incentives.
‒ this resolution, proposed by most political groups, deals with the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals to be achieved.
the text proposes measures based on prohibitions, regulations, taxation, environmental incentives, often with few constraints: nothing is said about countries which refuse to submit to such constraints, such as the united states or china.
similarly, the fact that the amount of waste and miscellaneous releases (soil erosion, carbon dioxide emissions, etc.)
the resolution also calls for the european sustainable development strategy to be the subject of a broad consultation involving national parliaments, local authorities and civil society, which seems to be a no-brainer.
- if the fight against poverty is a legitimate objective, i had to vote against this resolution which uses the most laudable principles (fight against poverty, sustainable development) as a trojan horse to attack once again the sovereignty of states.
the resolution calls for 'the development of a comprehensive sustainable development strategy covering all relevant areas of internal and external policies'.
‒ this resolution underlines the commitment of the 2030 agenda to sustainable development, which aims to eradicate poverty and redefine and modernise development strategies.
meps stress the importance of consulting all stakeholders, including national parliaments and local authorities, in the process of drawing up the new eu sustainable development strategy.
considering that it is essential to establish close cooperation between all stakeholders at the level of the european union and the united nations in order to assess the achievement of the sustainable development goals and to coordinate joint policies and programmes, i supported this resolution.
the 2030 agenda for sustainable development was adopted on 25 september 2015 by the united nations.
it has 17 sustainable development goals.
for the european union, the world's largest provider of development aid, it is important to pursue an even more ambitious development strategy, and to focus on the issues that have emerged or intensified over the decade, such as the increase in inequalities and the challenges of climate change.
‒ this text on the 2030 agenda and the objectives to be achieved in terms of sustainable development only highlights the inability of conferences, summits and meetings on this subject to change the concrete situation.
prohibitions, regulations, taxes, environmental incentives have obviously not prevented man from consuming the stocks that the planet had built up over millions of years.
the resolution requires countries to report on the 2030 agenda, including on the basis of indicators related to the sustainable development goals.
‒ i vote against: these are generally measures based on prohibitions, regulations, taxation, environmental incentives, with unfortunately very few constraints.
‒ i voted for this resolution because it represents a new step in the european union's commitment to sustainable development.
it provides the necessary clarification of responsibilities but also encourages the development of new synergies between the european institutions in favour of the environment.
‒ the resolution calls in particular for the european strategy for sustainable development to be the subject of a broad consultation involving national parliaments, local authorities and civil society.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which calls in particular for the european union to have a united position at the next un high-level political forum on sustainable development and to strengthen policy coherence for development.
‒ i voted against the resolution on the follow-up and progress of the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals.
it is therefore disturbing to talk about sustainable development in these conditions.
it is drawn up by the majority of the political groups in parliament (epp, s&d, ecr, alde, efdd, gue) and aims to bring european citizens closer to the sustainable development objectives set out in agenda 2030. it called on the commission to develop a communication on the hlpf (high level political forum on sustainable development) to be held in september 2016. the text also aims to organise a broad consultation involving all civil society actors.
it aims to establish objectives in terms of sustainable development (economic development compatible with respect for the environment) for the needs of the 2030 agenda.
the resolution calls on the commission to produce a comprehensive document on the progress made by 22 states, including four member states, in protecting the environment.
this communication will be used at the un forum on sustainable development, scheduled for september 2016. we are not opposed to the necessary protection of the environment.
however, the very notion of sustainable development is based on the idea of a 'world government' which we reject.
we also have doubts about the effectiveness of measures taken by supranational bodies in the field of sustainable development.
‒ the un has been working since september on renewed sustainable development goals, a roadmap for the next 15 years, through specific common development indicators.
the text is very flawed, particularly on the paris agreement on climate change, and tends to defend the questionable idea of a necessary common eu position at the un, disregarding the sovereignty of states.
‒ the resolution is based on the concept of sustainable development.
‒ the resolution calls in particular on the commission to produce a communication ahead of the sustainable development forum, scheduled for september 2016, to be held at the un with all member states.
in the main, these measures are based on prohibitions, regulations, taxation and environmental incentives, with, unfortunately, very often little constraint.
‒ the resolution calls for the european sustainable development strategy to be the subject of a broad consultation involving national parliaments, local authorities and civil society, which seems to be a no-brainer.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the state of play of the 2030 agenda, which puts sustainable development and the fight against climate change in a common framework for both developed and developing countries.
the resolution calls in particular on the european union to negotiate a united position in view of the forthcoming united nations high-level political forum on sustainable development (unhcp).
the eu's participation in this high level political forum is crucial for the review of the implementation of the sustainable development goals adopted by the united nations in september 2015 (the 2030 agenda).
in the context of the achievement of the objectives of the united nations 2030 agenda, i voted in favour of a resolution calling on the european commission to propose a comprehensive sustainable development strategy with a detailed timetable up to 2030 and also asking it to present a communication on the monitoring and review of this 2030 agenda, in order to understand the structure of its implementation at the level of the european union and its member states.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the follow-up and progress of the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals.
this resolution reflects the position of the european parliament in view of the united nations high level political forum on sustainable development (unhcp) to be held in july 2016. the purpose of this forum is to assess needs and adopt the roadmaps needed to implement the 2030 agenda.
in this context, the commission should propose a comprehensive sustainable development strategy and present a communication on the follow-up and review of the 2030 agenda.
it will also be necessary to ensure that the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework (mff) reflects the commitments made by the union in agenda 2030. presenting a common and coherent position on sustainable development is important for the credibility of the european union.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which calls for the union to have a united position at the next un high level political forum on sustainable development and to strengthen policy coherence for development.
the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals constitute a new international commitment to poverty eradication and new strategies for development policies.
as a good fireman, the european union is handing over our economies to the globalist world by removing almost all the tariff and non-tariff barriers that protect us from social and environmental dumping by emerging countries and then coming to the aid of our employees who have been laid off as a result of the closure of their companies.
i believe that the cfp should continue to operate outside the next programming period, while taking advantage of a number of improvements in budget implementation, speed of procedures, its more forward-looking role for anticipatory sectoral funding, its coordination with the structural funds and the award criteria to take account of smes and collateral damage in the immediate environment of the targeted enterprise (trade, craft, social life).
as a good fireman, the european union is handing over our economies to the globalist world by removing almost all the tariff and non-tariff barriers that protect us from social and environmental dumping by emerging countries and then coming to the aid of our employees who have been laid off as a result of the closure of their companies.
‒ privatization, competition and deregulation which does not exclude a very restrictive bureaucratic over-regulation of the energy sector are likely to lead both individuals and companies to pay for increasingly expensive energy, providing multinational oligopolies with comfortable margins at the expense of the most vulnerable and at the expense of investments in the network and production capacities.
‒ i voted against this report, which has as its sole purpose the privatisation of energy.
while it may be a good idea to encourage alternative energy production models, such as self-generation or cooperative production, it is regrettable that the host of standards decided by brussels in this regard is in reality primarily aimed at depriving states of their energy sovereignty.
what is politely called 'liberalisation' of the energy sector may in fact lead to individuals and companies paying more for energy, to the benefit of the multinationals with comfortable margins.
‒ the privatisation, competition and deregulation of the energy sector advocated in this report are likely to lead to individuals and companies paying for energy at increasingly high prices, providing multinational oligopolies with comfortable margins at the expense of the most vulnerable and at the expense of investments in the network and production capacity.
‒ the draft report aims to deepen the separation between energy producers and distributors in order to complete the liberalisation of the energy market: privatisation, competition and price deregulation.
households' energy independence, and the distribution of smart meters that allow for better management of electricity consumption, the fundamental objective of this text is to definitively break the last monopolies in energy production and distribution, which is likely to lead to a sharp rise in consumer prices, which is very damaging to the purchasing power of taxpayers.
‒ a rethinking of the way we consume energy is a necessity in our time.
to do this we must inform european citizens of their energy options and provide incentives for them to consume in an economical and environmentally friendly way.
we need a more decentralised, flexible energy system, as much as possible geared towards renewable energy.
however, it should be borne in mind that the energy transition requires an adaptation period so that all actors involved can adjust to the new recommendations.
we must combine environmental protection with the economic competitiveness of european enterprises.
consumers are at the heart of this energy transition and we must also help them to adapt to these new standards.
‒ this own-initiative report welcomes the european commission's communication and stresses the need to move from a centralised and rigid energy system to a decentralised, flexible and renewable energy system.
considering that the energy market needs to be reformed to promote sustainable and renewable energy in order to respond to economic and environmental challenges, i voted in favour of this report.
i voted in favour of this report on a 'new deal for energy consumers'.
the transition from a centralised energy system to a more decentralised system based on renewable energy is necessary.
this transition would eventually lead to an economy based mainly on renewable energy.
to achieve this, it is important to change our energy consumption habits.
‒ i believe that there is a need to move from a centralised and rigid energy system to a more decentralised, flexible and renewable energy-based system.
that is why i voted in favour of the griffin report entitled 'a new deal for energy consumers'.
i believe that we need to help consumers take ownership of the energy transition, produce their own energy and become more energy efficient.
finally, by voting in favour of this text, we committed ourselves to preventing energy poverty, in particular through the 'energy efficiency principle' which gives priority to energy savings and measures that affect demand rather than supply.
‒ with a view to contributing to the progressive orientation of the energy union legislation currently being reworked, i supported the report by my colleague theresa griffin.
the priority given to energy efficiency by the eu requires social tariffs adapted to situations of energy poverty and that aid granted for self-production benefits above all the poorest, which is far from the case.
finally, on this report, i supported an amendment to recognise, in this context, the status of 'common good' for the energy question, so that it will never be confiscated for the benefit of a few.
‒ this report is part of the third energy package, which has been aimed at liberalising the energy market since 2009 in particular: privatisation, competition and price deregulation.
moreover, this policy does not exclude a very restrictive bureaucratic over-regulation in this sector, which may lead to increasingly expensive energy for the benefit of multinational oligopolies.
finally, it is up to each member state to define its energy policy and to ensure the necessary investments for the development or maintenance of infrastructure, especially when it has opted for nuclear energy.
‒ vote against: privatisation, competition and deregulation of the energy sector are likely to lead to individuals and companies paying for increasingly expensive energy.
‒ are good ideas being undermined by utopias that are dangerous for consumers, especially the big consumers, our industries, who will be the first to suffer from the end of long-term energy policy and regulated tariffs?
privatization, competition and deregulation - which does not exclude a very restrictive bureaucratic over-regulation of the energy sector - are likely to lead both individuals and companies to pay for increasingly expensive energy, providing multinational oligopolies with comfortable margins at the expense of the most vulnerable and at the expense of investments in the network and production capacities.
‒ i voted in favour of this report which calls for further efforts to achieve the energy transition towards a more decentralised, energy-efficient, flexible and largely renewable energy system.
the text also contains practical recommendations for the development of a genuinely competitive and consumer-friendly retail energy market.
‒ i voted against the report entitled 'a new deal for energy consumers'.
in addition to the fact that it has not been established that price deregulation necessarily benefits the consumer in the long term, it is for each member state to define its energy policy and to ensure the necessary investments for the development or maintenance of infrastructure, especially when nuclear power has been chosen.
privatization, competition and deregulation - which does not exclude a very restrictive bureaucratic over-regulation - of the energy sector are likely to lead both individuals and companies to pay for energy at increasingly high prices, providing multinational oligopolies with comfortable margins at the expense of the most vulnerable and at the expense of investments in the network and production capacities.
‒ this text is part of the process of liberalising the energy market, and more particularly the third energy package.
some measures are relevant, such as decentralisation of energy production, which would make it easier for individuals or local authorities to install solar panels or other energy generators.
it also stressed the importance of transparency and energy efficiency, which are essential principles for the functioning of the market.
the state monopoly remains fundamental in this sector, in particular to guarantee the stability of nuclear energy.
despite several interesting proposals, notably on proactive consumers, self-consumption, decentralisation and the introduction of 'smart meters', the substance of the report clearly aims to deprive member states of a little more sovereignty in energy policy, something we are opposed to.
‒ this report deals with the third energy package which separates producers and distributors in order to make the market more liberal.
i believe that it is the state's responsibility to decide its energy policy, especially in the nuclear field.
‒ privatisation, competition and deregulation in the energy sector will lead to individuals and companies paying for energy at increasingly high prices, ensuring comfortable margins for multinational oligopolies at the expense of the most vulnerable and at the expense of investments in the grid and production capacities, so i am voting in favour of this text.
‒ i voted in favour of this text which calls for the establishment of a more efficient and consumer-friendly european energy market.
the report proposes a set of concrete measures to achieve this objective: more frequent and more transparent bills, a single energy shop, the implementation of price comparison tools, facilities for changing suppliers, etc.
‒ in the context of the preparation of the energy union legislation to be presented by the european commission, i have supported this text which calls for strengthening the power of consumers in the energy market in europe.
in the light of the central objective of combating energy poverty, it will be important in the coming years to promote collective energy purchasing, the emergence of new price comparison tools for consumers and the possibility of changing energy suppliers and thus tariffs more easily.
in line with the eu's energy transition objective, this report aims to strengthen the position of energy consumers in europe.
in the end, the benefits for citizens would be many: greater transparency in the choice of energy offers with increased competition between them, financial gains due to the optimisation of their energy consumption, greater energy efficiency in general, and a much more environmentally friendly consumption.
finally, the need for the union to strengthen its policies to combat energy poverty was recalled, and finally to establish a common legal framework for energy self-production and self-consumption.
citizens and consumers remain at the heart of the energy transition and must be supported in this perspective.
the commission and the member states must fully implement the third energy package, including our various proposals for domestic consumers.
we are calling for more clarity in energy bills and for more transparency in bills and contracts.
finally, the fight against energy poverty is also a major issue.
access to affordable energy must be considered a fundamental social right on which a common definition of energy poverty will be based.
‒ i voted in favour of this report on the new energy deal for consumers.
the report calls for consumers to exercise more power in the energy market.
on the other hand, it is crucial that energy prices are more transparent.
in this sense, energy bills must be more frequent and more legible; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal.
finally, the possibility of changing energy suppliers and tariffs more easily must be strengthened.
i supported this resolution because it calls for addressing the root causes of energy poverty, and thus allocating eu funds more efficiently to energy efficiency and self-production aid for energy-poor consumers.
the resolution aims to feed into the energy union legislation to be presented shortly by the european commission.
‒ this report is part of the third set of measures on energy, which aims in particular to dissociate energy producers and distributors in order to further liberalise the market: privatisation, competition and price deregulation.
it is, however, up to each member state to define its energy policy and to ensure the necessary investments for the development or maintenance of infrastructure - especially when nuclear power has been chosen.
the good ideas are thus undermined by utopias which are dangerous for consumers, especially for the big consumers, our industries, who will be the first to suffer from the end of longterm energy policy and regulated tariffs.
privatization, competition and deregulation - which does not exclude a very restrictive bureaucratic over-regulation - of the energy sector are likely to lead both individuals and companies to pay for energy at increasingly high prices, providing multinational oligopolies with comfortable margins at the expense of the most vulnerable and at the expense of investments in the network and production capacities.
it draws the commission's attention to the urgency of establishing a definition of energy poverty which takes into account gender equality aspects of the phenomenon.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is based on the principle of the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers.
only a return to intelligent protectionism, which protects us from social and environmental dumping by the emerging countries, will enable us to return to the path of prosperity.
improving the business environment and adapting european legislation to the specificities of smes will serve this objective.
‒ a well-functioning single market is essential to achieve the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy and to ensure competitiveness and sustainable growth in europe.
‒ to oppose all forms of protectionism and to implement the so-called 'services' directive, the directive on the posting of workers; the commission has already taken a number of measures to protect the environment.
by removing unnecessary barriers, non-tariff barriers, and promoting greater legislative and regulatory harmonisation, rapid results could be achieved in competitiveness, sustainable growth, research, innovation, consumer protection, job creation and investment, in particular for infrastructure, as well as the flourishing of smes and the most innovative companies in the union (in particular by facilitating their access to finance).
nuclear safety is also the subject of international cooperation organized under the control of the international atomic energy agency by the treaty of 17 june 1994. this international cooperation will of course be continued in the context of the europe of nations, which i wish to see.
– mr president, let me first thank all members for their interventions which show how high the stakes really are when it comes to energy safety and security.
many of the solutions to the questions raised in this debate lie in the need to end energy isolation and complete europe’s internal energy market.
for lithuania, as well as for all baltic states, this means that we need to continue working towards their full integration into the european energy market.
much of this progress is thanks in large part to the baltic energy market interconnection plan, which brings together all the baltic states to cooperate on integrating the region into a european network.
this is an example to others on what we can achieve under the energy union.
our vision is of an energy union based on solidarity and trust, which speaks with one voice to our external partners and which, ultimately, provides the secure and sustainable energy europe’s citizens need.
that is why the energy union is a top commission priority and why our focus is fully on implementation.
as a supporter of this clean and almost inexhaustible energy, i am convinced that we must not take any risks in the field of nuclear safety, unless we see the future of this energy totally called into question if another chernobyl-type accident should ever occur.
the unece (united nations economic commission for europe) is a european body whose objective is to harmonise the type-approval and regulations for motor vehicles and spare parts (safety, flight, environmental protection, etc.).
international regulatory cooperation should foster a transparent environment and the emergence of higher standards of consumer protection.
while i can understand the advantages of such harmonisation (a vehicle type-approved in one part is automatically type-approved in the other), which allows for a certain rationalization in view of the issues of safety or environmental protection, i reject the underlying objective, namely global technological harmonisation.
moreover, these differences in rules allowed states to create non-tariff barriers, which is not without advantages in the case where the country in question has more demanding standards, in particular environmental standards.
‒ the global harmonisation of technical regulations and approvals in the fields of safety, environmental protection and other fields, as pursued by the united nations economic commission for europe, will result in increased global economic competition in this particularly important sector, particularly in terms of employment.
the agreement, signed in 1958, has established common safety and environmental standards and contributes to improving road safety worldwide.
the purpose of this committee is to harmonize the type-approval and regulations for motor vehicles and spare parts (safety, theft, environmental protection, etc.).
the purpose of this committee is to harmonize the type-approval and regulations for motor vehicles and spare parts (safety, theft, environmental protection, etc.).
‒ at international level, the unece global forum for the harmonization of vehicle regulations is developing harmonised requirements (including safety and environmental requirements) to remove technical barriers to trade in vehicles.
while i voted in favour of this procedural development, i will remain attentive to the first reviews of the implementation of the eu-colombia-peru trade agreement, in particular as regards the impact of the liberalisation of trade in goods and services on human rights, social rights, the reduction of inequalities and the environment.
to return to sustainable growth, these markets must win the trust of investors, not create mistrust.
the members are appointed by the council, after consulting the european parliament, for a renewable term of six years.
the members shall elect one of their number as chairman for a renewable term of three years.
the 2015 eu report on policy coherence for development takes stock of progress made and makes concrete recommendations on the following priority areas: climate change, food security, migration, security, trade and finance.
promoting better alignment between the cfp and the sustainable development goals, creating synergies between development policies and other eu policies, and increasing the resources dedicated to the factual analysis of the cfp are all effective ways of improving european development policy.
the broad contribution of the socialist group has made it possible to draw up a quality report, consistent with our positions on sustainable development, and that is why i am voting in favour of this report.
‒ the commission carried out an evaluation of its policies for the development of third countries, shortly before the adoption by the un of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development.
it supports much more ambitious targets than cop21, notably for public investment in renewable energy.
in august 2015, the european commission (ec) published its fifth biannual report on policy coherence for development (pcd), shortly before the adoption of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development, which includes the objective of 'strengthening policy coherence for sustainable development'.
it is now essential that all the mechanisms of this policy are in line with the objective of achieving the new sustainable development agenda.
this is in line with the 2030 agenda for sustainable development and its 17 new objectives.
i supported this text, which identifies certain priority areas such as immigration, trade, food security, climate change, gender equality and security.
since becoming an mep, i have been denouncing the neoliberal logic of these policies and their harmful impact on local economies and populations, even to the point of preventing the sustainable development of some countries.
this text is very critical of the nasan system (a programme that repeats the destructive pattern imposed on asia in the 1970s) and advocates food sovereignty and ecological diversity for local populations, in order to prevent their emigration.
the tax, land and trade measures taken must provide a favourable environment for enterprises.
‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims in particular to promote a model of agriculture that improves resilience and creates sustainable agri-food systems.
the text also has the merit of recalling that this sustainable agricultural policy would make it possible to combat emigration effectively, and it constitutes a real plea in favour of food sovereignty which will make a genuine development policy possible.
non-sustainable agriculture is favoured, smallholders are sidelined.
i voted for this text which defends food sovereignty, short circuits, local agriculture, ecological diversity and respect for the environment.
this is why i share many of the rapporteur's proposals to promote 'sustainable' local agriculture, respecting the specificities of african countries, both agronomic and legal (e.g.
it is for food sovereignty, for ecological diversity and for local people to avoid their emigration as well.
the tax, land and trade measures taken must create a favourable environment for business.
the text therefore makes the union's participation in such an initiative conditional on the fulfilment of a whole series of preconditions, in particular as regards transparency of financing, respect for biodiversity and access to land or water.
the report thus opposes the 'green revolution' logic advocated by nasan, which increases 'dependence on chemical fertilizers and pesticides, leads to severe soil degradation and contributes to climate change'.
nasan plays a key role in africa in achieving the poverty reduction target by 2020. investment in the agricultural sector and the achievement of the sustainable development goals are the two aims of nasan.
the latter goes hand in hand, in particular, with the question of sustainable agriculture.
the tax, land and trade measures taken must provide a favourable environment for enterprises.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution calling for accounting standards that ensure financial stability and sustainable growth.
‒ i voted in favour of this report which stresses the new security climate in africa in recent years, including the emergence of terrorist groups in somalia, nigeria, the sahel and the sahara.
the security climate on the continent has changed dramatically in recent years, with the emergence of terrorist groups in somalia, nigeria and across the sahel and sahara.
in the face of a security climate in africa that has worsened considerably due to the emergence of terrorist groups, coordinated external action implementing diplomatic, security and development tools is needed.
the rapporteur does not directly address the fierce unfair competition faced by smes, small businesses, traders, artisans and farmers, which is generated by the absence of protective regulation, but he does have the merit of defending these economic actors, who provide sustainable jobs.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful organisms.
‒ i voted against this text on technological solutions for sustainable agriculture.
innovation in agriculture and forestry is essential to meet the food, environmental and climate challenges of the 21st century.
the agricultural world is facing multiple crises; well-designed, well-supported and well-funded innovation can be a solution to encourage sustainable agronomic and ecological practices, in line with the major challenges we face.
like my colleagues at adle, i am strongly committed to unlocking the innovation potential of agriculture to produce more quality products, secure food supplies and fight climate change more effectively.
‒ i opposed this text on technological solutions for sustainable agriculture.
this is not europe's role, nor is it a sustainable solution for the future of agriculture.
‒ this own-initiative report aims to find technological solutions to meet the current challenges in agriculture in a sustainable way.
‒ this own-initiative report focuses on technological solutions for sustainable agriculture.
the european union must become a world leader in technology, innovation and sustainability in agriculture, while ensuring that the benefits of technical progress are available to all european farmers.
in a context where global food demand is expected to increase by 70% by 2050 and where europe has a moral duty to contribute to feeding the world, new technologies are one of the solutions to make crops and livestock more productive and sustainable.
i supported this report on technological solutions for sustainable agriculture because technological innovation will play a key role in enabling higher productivity and more sustainable crops.
today, agriculture faces many challenges, such as climate change and the scarcity of arable land.
in a world with a growing population, the rate of increase in food demand is estimated at 70% by 2050. it is therefore essential to propose concrete solutions for a european agriculture that is both economically competitive and environmentally sustainable.
‒ i voted in favour of this report which calls for the development of innovative technologies in the agricultural sector in a context of increasing global demand, shrinking land availability, increased health risks and environmental degradation.
the european union must empower itself to become a world leader in technology, innovation and sustainability in agriculture.
‒ i voted against the report on technological solutions for sustainable agriculture.
‒ the text focuses on innovation through the development of new technologies and techniques, with a view to establishing sustainable agriculture.
‒ agriculture today faces many challenges: food, environment, climate and energy.
the rapporteur believes that the commission should be able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the rules on the protection of the environment are respected.
although some passages in the text indicate that particular emphasis should be placed on the development of sustainable agricultural practices (conservation agriculture, agro-ecology, agroforestry) and on the circular economy, the many shadow areas surrounding nbts encourage me to apply the precautionary principle.
and climate change.
and to promote 'sustainable' agriculture in this context, the report encourages the development and adoption of 'precision' agricultural technologies, i.e.
‒ i support this text on technological solutions for sustainable agriculture in the european union.
with global demand for agricultural products growing alongside population, with the world's urbanisation reducing the area available for crops, and with global warming disrupting agriculture, it is essential to look now for ways to make agriculture more sustainable and productive.
‒ the european union and its member states must become aware of the importance of new technologies in the search for a more productive and sustainable agriculture, especially when it is known that the global demand for food is expected to increase by 70% by 2050. it is with the importance of these issues in mind that i voted for this text which stresses innovation in agriculture, so that the european union can become a leader in the sustainability of the sector, while ensuring that the benefits of progress are equitably shared among our farmers.
the prospect of having to feed nearly 9 billion people by 2050, curb global warming and better manage resources is driving us to rethink our models and innovate.
technology can be used to make our agricultural production methods more efficient and sustainable.
farmers must be involved in technological and environmental progress.
our societies face many challenges (food, environment, climate) to which agriculture can provide solutions.
this means producing more food, of better quality, especially for health, and accessible to all, while at the same time fighting food waste.
it is imperative that it be taken into account in future revisions of the cap in order to combine economic development with sustainable production.
like my colleagues at adle, i am strongly committed to unlocking the innovation potential of agriculture to produce more quality products, secure food supplies and fight climate change more effectively.
‒ this own-initiative report focuses on promoting innovation and economic development in future agricultural management for the european union, and on the link between innovation and sustainable agricultural production.
i considered this an important topic for the development of economically and environmentally sustainable agricultural production in europe and supported this report.
‒ i support the importance of innovation for the future of agriculture and for its sustainability, both economically and environmentally.
in supporting this report, i would like to reaffirm that economic competitiveness and environmental sustainability are not opposites, but complementary!
‒ innovation in agriculture and forestry is a good way to respond to the many challenges facing our societies: food, environment, climate.
innovation well thought out, well supported, well funded can be a solution to encourage sustainable agronomic and ecological practices, in line with the major challenges ahead.
‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to highlight the role of innovation in economic and environmental sustainability in agricultural production.
i am voting against this text, which clearly does not address the issues of the new agriculture that has become necessary (environment, employment, culture, landscape, etc.).
‒ as in all sectors, innovation in agriculture is essential to meet the new challenges that are emerging: increasing world population, decreasing arable land... this report highlights the role of innovation in economic and environmental sustainability in agricultural production.
‒ i voted in favour of this report, which emphasises innovation as a factor of economic and environmental sustainability in agricultural production.
‒ we are facing three challenges to which agricultural innovation can provide solutions: a food challenge, with the prospect of having to feed 9.1 billion people by 2050, an environmental challenge, due to the degradation and depletion of natural resources, and finally a climate challenge, linked to climate change at work and the risks it entails.
innovation must be used to develop agricultural potential, sustainability and food security.
during this period, other new technologies were introduced with known negative effects on small farmers, the environment and food sovereignty.
instead, we must move towards a change of system, towards a way of producing that is agro-ecological and that defends small farmers.
i could also take an example, because the impact of the space sector is important in the field of agriculture - i will finish - and the environment, but we also need a real global strategy because, in the field of cop 21, for example, mr president, with space, we will have a real vision of what is happening at the level of our oceans, also at the level of the limits for greenhouse gas emissions.
why should we wait longer when dealing with, for instance, a waste legislation proposal or digital single market-related proposals?
beyond the member states, the union has its own brakes, particularly when the monetary environment is under question.
the eib's choices do not seem any riskier than before and our objectives concerning employment, cohesion and the energy transition are being neglected.
it is not a question of throwing the baby out with the bath water, but of adapting the system so that it can respond to projects with a low multiplier effect and less profitable, but - as i said - more structural, responding in particular to the priorities of energy transition, cohesion and employment.
all this will be in vain if we do not act in parallel to create an attractive environment for investors, i.e.
we wanted an additional plan, we wanted a job-creating plan, we wanted a plan for the ecological transition and we wanted a plan for the cohesion of the european union.
this exceptional assistance effort must also be seen against the background of the courageous efforts and significant progress that tunisia has been making in recent years to establish a fully—fledged democratic system, despite the difficult regional and security environment.
we must show solidarity in a sustainable way and not limit ourselves to emergency aid.
we should be with tunisia - and more broadly with the peoples of the south - more bold, more inventive, by creating a common public bank or, at least, a common fund so that existing debts can be frozen and transformed into a sustainable development project, creating jobs, promoting human and ecological development.
the country is continuing its relentless transition towards a stable and sustainable democracy.
– madam president, just very briefly, i want to underline the importance of the urgency of this decision, and in this context i hope that we can get support from parliament because we do not have any time to waste.
the report calls for a dialogue with the council and the commission with a view to building a coherent european policy on liability and compensation for environmental damage resulting from the transport of harmful and potentially dangerous substances at sea.
our s&d group has insisted in this text on social and environmental rights and on provisions guaranteeing fair trade.
our s&d group has emphasized social and environmental rights and provisions to ensure fair trade in this text.
‒ i have approved the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation (pca) signed between the european union and the republic of the philippines, which strengthens the relationship between the 28 member states and the asian state in many areas of action: transport, energy, environment, tourism, but also the fight against terrorism and organised crime.
our group, the s&ds, insisted in this text on social and environmental rights and on provisions guaranteeing fair trade.
as such, the report calls on the philippines, as a gsp+ country, to ensure the effective implementation of all major international conventions on fundamental rights, labour law, the environment and good governance.
i support €500 million in aid to tunisia, which will be essential to help it restore a favourable investment climate.
this assistance will cover part of tunisia's external financing needs in 2016 and 2017, while facilitating reforms to restore the balance of payments and fiscal position more sustainably, improve the investment climate and foster economic integration and regulatory convergence with the eu.
through this assistance, the union reaffirms its solidarity and support for tunisia; the objective remains to create the conditions for sustainable economic growth, which benefits everyone and creates jobs.
‒ a year ago, the european parliament voted a resolution condemning the climate of impunity in the member states, some of which are said to have allowed secret cia prisons on their territories.
it stresses the absolute respect for human rights and the importance of democratic rules in a climate of counter-terrorism.
space technologies and services, such as satellite communication or earth observation, are of vital importance not only for border management, energy security, disaster management or transport, civil activities, but also for security and defence.
this is particularly true in the current climate of insecurity, the rise of terrorism and the influx of migrants.
while supporting the principle of the non-militarisation of space, we affirm in this report the need for europe to have its own independent space capabilities (satellite communication, situational analysis, precision navigation or earth observation), as they play a crucial role in border management, energy security, disaster management or transport, but also in european security.
this resolution recommends that european space programme infrastructures and services be used in related policies and programmes, in particular to address challenges such as migration, border management and sustainable development.
the space sector, too little known to our citizens, has consequences for all our public policies such as defence, digital, agriculture, the environment or border management!
europe needs its own space capabilities (satellite communication, situational analysis, precision navigation or earth observation) which play a crucial role in border management, energy security, disaster management or transport, as well as in european security.
the government of president nicolás maduro is urged to implement urgent economic reforms with a view to finding a constructive solution to the economic, humanitarian and energy crisis.
‒ venezuela is currently experiencing an extremely fragile political situation, marked by a permanent conflict between the opposition-controlled parliament and the pro-maduro government, all in a climate of economic collapse linked in particular to the fall in oil prices.
‒ according to the united nations environment programme and the world health organization, endocrine disruptors are a global threat.
the commission has fully complied with the procedure by requesting the european food safety authority to carry out a study on the safety of the plant for human and animal health and the environment.
more generally, it is time for europe to promote the sustainable use of herbicides.
the gm carnations are resistant to sulphonylureas, herbicides that are toxic to plants and therefore pose a risk to biodiversity when they are widely distributed.
however, the european food safety authority (efsa) concluded on the basis of two scientific opinions that the use of this carnation posed no danger to human health or the environment.
however, it turns out that the development of this plant is conditioned by exposure to sulphonylurea-based herbicides, the use of which is harmful to the environment.
thus, the creation of a market for sulphonylurea-resistant plants will encourage the use of this diabetes drug as a global herbicide, at the risk of a global negative impact on biodiversity and chemical contamination of drinking water.
efsa then produced two scientific opinions concluding that there was no scientific reason to consider that the use of this carnation could have any negative effects on human health or the environment.
meps objected to this decision on the grounds that the objectives of protecting the environment and human health were not met.
furthermore, according to efsa, plants of shd-27531-4 that would grow in the environment could only express their improved characteristics by being exposed to sulphonylurea-based herbicides, the use of which would have negative consequences on the development of other plants.
the objection is further based on the argument that the act exceeds the powers of the commission by not meeting the objectives of protection of the environment and human health as defined by directive 2001/18/ec.
‒ the objection raised by some members against this act is based on the argument that the act exceeds the powers of the commission by not meeting the objectives of protecting the environment and human health as defined by directive 2001/18/ec.
furthermore, according to efsa, plants of shd-27531-4 that would grow in the environment could only express their improved characteristics by being exposed to sulphonylurea-based herbicides.
however, the european food safety authority (efsa) concluded on the basis of two scientific opinions that the use of this carnation posed no danger to human health or the environment.
however, it turns out that the development of this plant is conditioned by exposure to sulphonylurea-based herbicides, the use of which is harmful to the environment.
‒ the european commission has authorised the placing on the market of a genetically modified carnation, but some meps objected to this on the grounds that the act exceeds the commission's powers by not meeting the objectives of protecting the environment and human health as defined by directive 2001/18/ec.
‒ vote in favour: according to efsa, shd-27531-4 plants that develop in the environment could only express their improved characteristics by exposure to sulphonylurea-based herbicides.
the marketing authorisation for this gmo, which was established following a scientific opinion from the european food safety authority, posed no risk to public health or the environment.
the objection raised by some members against this act is based on the argument that the act exceeds the powers of the commission by not meeting the objectives of protection of the environment and human health as defined by directive 2001/18/ec.
in addition, according to efsa, shd-27531-4 plants that would develop in the environment could only express their improved characteristics by exposure to sulphonylurea-based herbicides.
efsa then produced two scientific opinions concluding that there was no scientific reason to consider that the use of this carnation could have any negative effects on human health or the environment.
the objection against the act is based on the argument that the act exceeds the powers of the commission by not meeting the objectives of protection of the environment and human health as defined by directive 2001/18/ec.
several arguments seem to point to the danger of this gmo for human health and the environment.
firstly, there is a risk that this product will be consumed, because of the release of pollen from this flower into the environment.
in addition, environmental protection objectives were not met.
the objection against the act is based on the argument that the act exceeds the powers of the commission by failing to meet the objectives of protecting the environment and human health.
following the refusal of some eu member states to place carnations on the market, efsa (european food safety authority) published two scientific opinions refuting the existence of a risk to health and the environment, which served as the basis for the european commission to impose its decision.
this is an act which exceeds the commission's powers in terms of protecting the environment and human health, because the risks are in the consumption of this carnation and in the spread of pollen, which has not been assessed.
the commission has fully complied with the procedure by requesting the european food safety authority to carry out a study on the safety of the plant for human and animal health and the environment.
on the contrary, priority should be given to sustainable and environmentally friendly techniques.
efsa then produced two scientific opinions concluding that there was no scientific reason to consider that the use of this carnation could have any adverse effects on human health or the environment.
in addition, according to efsa, plants of shd-27531-4 that would grow in the environment could only express their improved characteristics by exposure to sulphonylurea-based herbicides.
the gm carnations are resistant to sulphonylureas, herbicides that are toxic to plants and therefore pose a risk to biodiversity when widely distributed.
i am in favour of strong european standards in social and environmental matters, which also encourage innovation and prevent relocation.
it is therefore good that we finally have a debate on new border protection mechanisms to protect employment, a high level of social protection, the environment and the territories.
whaling is a necessary threat to biodiversity because some whale species are in danger of extinction.
however, we must also address the problem of plastic waste ingestion by whales, which causes massive strandings.
this resumption of whaling is very bad news for the protection of marine biodiversity and ecosystems.
it is also desirable to create a regulatory environment favourable to such investments: defragmentation of the internal market, practical implementation of the agreement reached at cop 21 and, perhaps, also a review of the rules governing the award of public contracts.
‒ the european rail equipment sector is very important as it contributes to technological advances in favour of a low-carbon means of mass transport.
this must be done quickly if we are to ensure a sustainable future for our industry, in europe and internationally.
the resolution also calls on the commission to take better account of the need for investment in railway infrastructure, which is making a full and tangible contribution to the challenges of reindustrialisation and the fight against global warming.
the european railway equipment sector has a number of advantages: it has excellent environmental performance, it has a large market and it contributes to mass transport in the face of growing mobility needs.
mr president, cop21 highlighted the fundamental role of regions and cities in the transition to low-carbon societies.
the committee on regional development believes that cohesion policy funds can make a greater contribution to the objectives set for the development of renewable energy.
the committee regrets that the mobilisation of cohesion policy funds for renewable energy has only increased from 1.1% in the period 2007-2013 to 1.4% in the period 2014-2020. we therefore call on european cities and regions to mobilise all instruments and redouble their efforts.
as far as the outermost regions are concerned, we believe that it is possible to set an ambitious target of energy independence.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it was as an advocate of energy saving and new forms of energy that i was appointed, at a very young age, in 1980, to my first official post as head of the regional energy department in alsace.
the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the energy efficiency of the community's transport infrastructure.
if you add in what needs to be done for renewable energy or transfer, you get 500 billion.
mr president, commissioner, the debate on energy efficiency and renewable energy reminds me of this person who begs god every day to win the lottery.
these ambitions are also, and above all, of interest to the well-being of the planet, because the energy that is least polluting and most economical is the energy that is not consumed.
if we want to win, let's go for energy efficiency, it's renewable.
‒ i voted in favour of this protocol, which will allow lebanon to conclude agreements to participate in new community programmes adopted in parallel with the union's multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020. the protocol will enable lebanon to participate in certain community programmes (research, innovation, support for smes, environment) on the same terms as eu member states.
belgium, like all western countries, is subject to unfair international competition, exacerbated by social and environmental dumping by emerging countries.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
these fishing methods are very selective and therefore respectful of the environment.
i welcome this and invite the commission to continue to work closely with iccat to ensure sustainable exploitation of bluefin tuna.
i supported this report, considering that this multiannual plan will establish an economically viable bluefin tuna fishery model while ensuring the sustainability and sound management of fishing activities.
these fishing methods are very selective and therefore respectful of the environment.
these fishing methods are very selective and therefore respectful of the environment.
these fishing methods are very selective and therefore respectful of the environment.
scientific advice has established that the current exploitation of the stocks is incompatible with the objective of maximum sustainable yield.
scientific advice has established that the current exploitation of the stocks is incompatible with the objective of maximum sustainable yield.
the committee on fisheries has had the good fortune to amend the original proposal to take account of the most recent studies by the international council for the exploration of the sea, which have shown that the current exploitation of stocks is incompatible with the objective of maximum sustainable yield.
this management plan is the first to be drawn up under the rules of the new common fisheries policy (reformed in 2013), which requires, inter alia, the management of fish stocks at maximum sustainable yield (msy).
‒ this report focuses on multiannual plans, which are key instruments for sustainable management and recovery of fish stocks.
one of the major reforms of the new multi-species management plan is the phasing out of the allowable catch quotas to ensure the sustainability of fisheries.
i supported this report, considering that this multiannual plan will establish an economically viable model of fisheries while ensuring the sustainability and sound management of fishing activities in the baltic sea.
this helps to reduce the negative impact of fishing activities on the ecosystem.
‒ the baltic stocks of cod, herring and sprat are threatened by overfishing, as the current exploitation of stocks is incompatible with the objective of maximum sustainable yield.
‒ i voted in favour of this multiannual plan for the baltic cod, herring and sprat stocks, which will ensure sustainable management and the recovery of fish stocks.
scientific advice has established that the current exploitation of the stocks is incompatible with the objective of maximum sustainable yield.
the plan, the first to be drawn up under the new fisheries policy, requires management of fish stocks at maximum sustainable yield, which, according to the text, is assessed according to a range of values.
this management plan is the first to be drawn up under new rules resulting from the common fisheries policy, reformed in 2013, which requires, inter alia, the management of fish stocks at maximum sustainable yield (msy).
- scientific advice has established that current stock exploitation is incompatible with the objective of maximum sustainable yield.
‒ i voted against this report on progress in renewable energy.
if we are in favour of renewable energy, we cannot support a text which is made up of very binding objectives and which calls on the european commission to strengthen its role.
‒ the european parliament is in a federalist delusion when it comes to the environment.
this is the case here, where we are talking about renewable energy.
even though i am in favour of renewable energy, the report's clear integrationist tone does not allow for a vote on it as it stands.
‒ this report, which looks at progress in renewable energy, is certainly interesting, but its integrationist tone, bordering on federalism, is uncomfortable, making it appear more as a pretext than as an end in itself.
i therefore voted against this destructive report, which is far from promoting the widespread use of renewable energy.
‒ i opposed this report on progress in the renewable energy sector.
this is regrettable, especially since it contained several good proposals: taking into account energy-poor users, excluding public investment from the deficit targets, and suggesting simplification of administrative and fiscal rules for producers-consumers.
unfortunately, these good intentions are being perverted by the federalist will of the rapporteur, who feels obliged to give the commission the role of policeman to guide the member states on the path to renewable energy through binding targets and legislation.
‒ even though i am in favour of the development of renewable energy, the clearly integrationist tone of the report does not allow me to vote on it as it stands.
‒ this report aims to take stock of the state of progress in the renewable energy sector.
while investing in renewable energy is essential for future generations, the fact remains that the increase in administrative and legal constraints in the union will exacerbate the current unfair competition faced by our companies.
‒ one of the union's priorities is to achieve a successful energy transition in the fight against global warming.
in this context, the development of renewable energies is very important.
another challenge is to reduce the european union's energy dependence on third countries.
regulation of the renewable energy sector should promote a stable framework for investment and effective democratic control, conducive to their development.
the report raises key questions about europe's energy future.
‒ this report gives the temperature of the state of the art in renewable energy equipment and production, which is summed up in the phrase "the glass is half full and half empty".
i am very attentive to the question of investment in research, particularly the question of electricity storage, which is a tool for the management of renewable energies.
this requires the involvement of local authorities, simplification of the administrative framework and financing procedures, and the implementation of smart equipment that can demonstrate to end-users the benefits of switching to clean energy.
‒ the report does not forget to mention energy-poor users and the importance of training as a key issue in these policies.
it also wants to exclude public investment from deficit targets and involve citizens in national plans for renewable energy.
‒ the report is relevant, as it does not forget users in energy-scarce situations and devotes almost a paragraph to training.
it wants to exclude public investment from deficit targets and envisages involving citizens in national plans for renewable energy.
although i recognize the value of renewable energy, the binding tone of the report led me to vote against the text.
‒ i voted in favour of this report, which takes stock of the progress made in the renewable energy sector.
the report estimates that, overall, the union is on track to meet the 2020 targets (20% greenhouse gas emissions, 20% renewable energy and 20% energy efficiency).
if renewable energy continues to develop, the report points out that the union could save up to €30 billion a year in the long term.
‒ i voted against this report because, under the pretext of encouraging renewable energy, it seeks to strengthen the european union and punish the states that are resistant.
it also promotes the smoky concept of 'energy democracy'.
‒ i voted against the report on progress in the renewable energy sector.
the european parliament is in a federalist delusion when it comes to the environment.
it is not forgetting, in particular, users in situations of energy poverty.
he wants to involve citizens in national plans for renewable energy.
the text makes some interesting remarks, such as the importance of training on renewable energy, helping users in energy poverty, but also involving citizens in national renewable energy plans.
the report contains several positive points: the consideration of users in situations of energy poverty, training, the situation of producers-consumers who suffer from overly restrictive administrative and fiscal standards, but also the desire to exclude public investments from deficit targets and to involve citizens in national plans.
however, this report adopts an integrationist, even federalist, view of the energy sector, which we strongly oppose.
‒ i am aware, with some caution, that in the european parliament renewable energy, federalism and integration are closely linked.
good ideas are being developed on several points, including citizen involvement in national plans for renewable energy.
‒ even if we are in favour of renewable energy, the tone of the report, which is very openly in favour of strengthening the commission's powers at the expense of those of the states, does not allow us to vote on it as it stands.
‒ even if some of the guidelines are good in terms of renewable energy, the clearly integrationist tone of the report does not allow me to vote on it as it stands.
‒ this report takes stock of progress in the renewable energy sector.
the european union, which imports more than 50% of its energy needs for a daily 1 billion euro, is highly energy dependent, particularly on crude oil, natural gas and coal.
the european union must promote renewable energy through incentives, including tax incentives, in order to meet its 20% renewable energy target for 2020. i therefore voted in favour of this text, but against its provisions which aim to promote renewable energy by coercion.
‒ today, the european union imports more than 50% of its energy and is dependent on oil, natural gas and coal.
i voted in favour of this text, which underlines the importance of renewable energy, a sector which represents more than a million jobs in europe, in achieving the objectives which the union has set itself.
‒ renewable energy is a key component of the eu's energy policy, reducing emissions and increasing the union's energy independence.
in this respect, while it is noted that the majority of member states are on track to achieve the ambitious targets set by the union in this area (20% renewable energy by 2020), there are still gaps in achievement between them, including france, which is lagging behind in achieving its climate and energy targets.
the commission has also been asked to present a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of climate change.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which takes stock of the actions undertaken in the union in relation to renewable energy and sets out the efforts to be continued in order to achieve the targets set for 2020 and 2030. the energy and ecological transition is an imperative, as was recently confirmed by the agreement reached at cop 21, and it must be encouraged as it has benefits, particularly in terms of improving public health, creating jobs and increasing the comfort of life.
it is therefore unacceptable to see a decline in investment in renewable energy in europe.
‒ i voted in favour of this report which highlights the important progress that has been made within the union in the renewable energy sector while underlining the many efforts that remain to be made.
this report emphasises the need to share best practice in terms of national renewable energy policies and to promote their adoption within a more convergent european model.
it stressed the need to guarantee access to finance, particularly for smes, and to support research and development in the field of renewable energies.
transparency, convergence of practices and increased investment will make our environmental policy more effective and more efficient.
‒ the modernisation of the eu's energy model requires the development of renewable energies.
the energy transition must tackle climate change and our dependence on imported energy resources, and create jobs.
on the contrary, democratic participation and regulation are essential to ensure the social and environmental aspects.
the energy future of europe cannot be dictated by multinational companies, at the risk of negative externalities.
the left must be the leader of the energy transition.
the union must accelerate the development of clean energy.
the 20% renewable energy target by 2020 is therefore only a first step.
efforts must be maintained to reach 30% renewable energy by 2030. these are the conditions for a social and sustainable europe.
‒ the report highlights some interesting points: users in energy poverty; training (a key issue in these policies); the involvement of citizens in national renewable energy plans; the examination of the situation of producer-consumers, for whom administrative and tax rules should be simplified.
i myself am in favour of renewable energy.
‒ this report deals with the october 2012 energy efficiency directive (eed) in the context of the evaluation of its implementation and with a view to its revision.
the text states that 'energy efficiency should be considered as a source of energy in its own right, representing the amount of energy saved in n·w (negawatts) '.
it calls for optimising energy consumption to make it more efficient and to reduce the energy consumption of households.
however, the eed sets 'targets in the form of an absolute level of primary energy consumption and final energy consumption' (article 3 (1) (a) of the eed).
in the present economic climate, however, this energy austerity is likely to do even more damage to our industries than the current one.
‒ this report is about energy savings to be achieved within the european union.
while this is a good thing in itself, in the current economic climate, this energy austerity is likely to harm our industries even more.
‒ the leitmotif of this text is that 'energy efficiency should be considered as a source of energy in its own right, representing the amount in nw (negawatt) of energy saved' (considering f the continuous search for energy savings, which is presented as fundamental, in particular for achieving the climate objectives set at the end of cop21, is supposed to enable us to strengthen both our energy security and our economic competitiveness.
e.it is therefore called upon to optimise its energy consumption to make it more 'efficient' (from the english adjective 'efficient'), considering that 'energy savings are the first and most secure source of energy in europe' (paragraph 33), 'in an increasingly decentralised energy landscape' (paragraph 30), 'in a world of increasingly decentralised energy sources' (paragraph however, the energy efficiency directive (eeed) sets 'objectives in the form of an absolute level of primary energy consumption and final energy consumption' (article 3 (1) (a) of the eeed): in the current economic context, this energy austerity is likely to harm our industries even more, especially as the rapporteur welcomes, in the explanatory memorandum, the 'good results of the ets' (or seqe), which is a flagrant failure.
‒ i preferred to abstain on this report on the implementation of the energy efficiency directive.
some points are in the right direction, such as the recognition of the problems of competitiveness of our energy-intensive industries vis-à-vis competitors in third countries or the fact that the energy efficiency objective is accompanied by a certain latitude left to member states to adapt their instruments to the national context.
however, binding targets are set by the weee, including an absolute level of final energy consumption, even though austerity policies imposed by brussels prevent states from providing the necessary investments.
‒ this report assesses the implementation of the energy efficiency directive with a view to its revision.
the rapporteur stresses the potential energy savings to be achieved, in particular those linked to the renovation of the building stock.
unusually, this text even addresses the problem of the competitiveness deficit of our energy-intensive industries in relation to their non-community competitors, but without ever challenging the general free trade which exacerbates unfair international competition.
finally, the text includes a paragraph calling into question the current austerity which prevents member states from financing the investments needed to achieve energy efficiency targets.
‒ implementation of the energy efficiency directive is essential to reach the eu's 20% target for 2020. the union has made enormous progress in this area even though the directive has not yet been transposed into the law of all member states.
this will ensure the consistency of the union's energy efficiency policy.
i voted against this report because i was not in favour of a binding 40% energy efficiency target by 2030. we must respond appropriately to environmental challenges.
it is true that we must make considerable efforts in energy efficiency, but we must do so gradually.
‒ the cheapest energy is the one you do not consume.
energy efficiency must therefore be seen as a fully-fledged energy source which represents the amount in nw (negawatts) of energy saved, as the recent history of the world and europe has irrefutably demonstrated.
i share the view of the authors of this resolution that the potential for energy savings at local level should be exploited much better, given that local and regional authorities have a central role to play in achieving energy efficiency and in the energy transition in general.
it is also at this level that the issues of equal access and energy poverty can best be addressed, and we must be extremely vigilant to ensure that the savings from 'energy efficiency' are not reserved for those (individuals and businesses) who can afford to make the necessary investments.
‒ this report on the implementation of the october 2012 energy efficiency directive (eeed) focuses on the ongoing pursuit of energy savings, with the aim of strengthening both our energy security and our economic competitiveness.
it highlights the problems of competitiveness of our energy-intensive industries in relation to their non-community competitors.
however, the eed sets 'targets in the form of an absolute level of primary energy consumption and final energy consumption'.
such energy austerity is likely to harm our industries even more.
‒ this report deals with the october 2012 energy efficiency directive (eed) in the context of the evaluation of its implementation and with a view to its revision.
the leitmotif of this text is that "energy efficiency should be considered as a source of energy in its own right, representing the amount of energy saved in n·w (negawatts) in the form of electricity, and the amount of energy used in the form of heat, electricity and electricity".
‒ i voted in favour of this report on the implementation of the energy efficiency directive.
the text stresses that the union is on track to meet its 20% energy efficiency target by 2020, but calls on member states to better implement the directive, as the union still imports more than half of its energy.
‒ i abstained because, although the report encourages energy transition and technological innovation, it seems unrealistic in several respects.
for example, he advocates the abandonment of fossil energy, which seems impossible in the short to medium term.
‒ i abstained on the report on the implementation of the energy efficiency directive (ee directive).
the leitmotif of this text is that energy efficiency should be considered as a source of energy in its own right, representing the amount of energy saved.
the continuous search for energy savings, which is presented as fundamental, in particular for achieving climate objectives, is supposed to enable us to strengthen both our energy security and our economic competitiveness.
however, the eed sets "targets in the form of an absolute level of primary energy consumption and final energy consumption" in the present economic climate, this energy austerity is likely to do even more damage to our industries, especially since the rapporteur welcomes, in the explanatory statement, the 'good results of the ets system', which is a flagrant failure.
‒ energy efficiency is the keyword of the text.
it looks at the october 2012 energy efficiency directive (eeed) and assesses the consequences and the need for amendments.
he advocates energy efficiency, which means more efficient use of energy.
the rapporteur also calls for more flexibility and flexibility to be allowed to governments in the implementation of this programme and for more realistic targets to be set for energy efficiency.
as part of the evaluation and the perspective of the october 2012 revision of the energy efficiency directive (ee directive), this report envisages the ongoing search for energy savings to enable us to strengthen both our energy security and our economic competitiveness.
it also mentions the problems of competitiveness of our energy-intensive industries in relation to their competitors outside the european union, which we approve of.
nevertheless, we are opposed to the energy austerity proposed by the dde, because it is likely to cause even more damage to our industries.
‒ this report deals with the october 2012 energy efficiency directive in the context of the evaluation of its implementation and with a view to its revision.
energy efficiency, in other words energy saving, must be seen, according to the text, as an energy resource.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
while not ignoring the difficulties of industry, the report sets as an absolute the objectives of reducing energy expenditure, which may, however, be even more damaging to industry.
‒ i voted against this report which proposes a binding target of 40% by 2030 for energy efficiency.
energy efficiency is an important lever to reduce energy consumption and combat global warming.
as with renewable energy, energy efficiency should not be promoted through coercion.
‒ i support environmental protection in general.
i could not support this report, however, because unfortunately the radical position prevailing in the voting on the amendments was one which took no account at all of the impact of the climate targets on the european economy.
such a proposal would weaken the competitiveness of european companies vis-à-vis countries that are not concerned about the environment.
but it would not be good for the environment if industry in environmentally friendly countries disappeared and moved to the countries that are among the main polluters.
‒ i voted for this text which shows that the european union is on the right track above all, it is important to note that it is mainly businesses and households that have taken up this energy need, as the directive has not yet been fully implemented in most member states.
‒ this report is to be compared with the progress report on renewable energy.
we also recalled the need for the commission and the member states to ensure a stable regulatory framework for the different actors in the field of renewable energy, to ensure coherence between the different policies of the union and the need to increase investment in the sector.
‒ i supported this resolution on the implementation of the 2012 energy efficiency directive, which is the centrepiece of the eu's energy efficiency strategy.
energy efficiency and the energy savings it brings are of great benefit for the protection of the environment and the climate, the strengthening of the competitiveness of our economies, the creation of jobs, the fight against energy poverty and energy independence.
however, the 20% energy efficiency target for 2020 is not guaranteed.
finally, we call for more coherence in energy legislation and for measures to be adapted to the smallest households.
‒ energy efficiency is the european union's priority in combating global warming.
improving energy efficiency by 20% with a 20% increase in the share of renewable energy and a 20% reduction in co2 emissions is one of the european 2020 targets in terms of sustainable development.
between 1990 and 2014, greenhouse gas emissions fell by 23%.
so this is proof, if any, that by reducing their impact on the environment, citizens and businesses have generated a surplus of growth.
contrary to the claims of those who advocate environmental disregard, the ecological transition and energy management are not a brake on economic growth, but an adjuvant.
a cheap environmental policy cannot satisfy the desire to build a sustainable and prosperous europe.
it is by embarking on the path of ecological transition that europe will effectively achieve its economic, social and environmental objectives.
‒ this text realistically acknowledges the problems of competitiveness of our energy-intensive industries in relation to their non-eu competitors, but advocates energy austerity which risks harming these industries even more.
shouldn't the eu focus on the core issues that concern our citizens: growth and jobs, security and migration management, food and agriculture, climate change and energy?
‒ i abstained on this joint resolution because i would have preferred to have put an environment resolution to the vote, so that my group could express its values, its analysis of the british referendum, and its ideas for the future.
the repeated efforts of the european people's party, an ally of the socialists and democrats in the grand coalition which leads the european parliament, to prevent the development of ambitious social and environmental legislation are far from the political europe we want.
in the face of chaos, let us be realistic: whether it is climate, tax evasion, trafficking or terrorism, the answer cannot be found beyond our national borders.
because europe is a big idea and not just a big market, this departure must above all be an opportunity for a profound re-foundation of the eu, with priority given to a europe that is more democratic and therefore closer to the citizen; a europe resolutely geared towards sustainable investment, growth and employment.
mr president, reducing emissions requires constant efforts and a transformation of our production machinery.
this is a positive and constructive approach to environmental policy, this is the real european pooling of our resources, the opposite of technocracy.
these two levers are absolutely essential if we are to succeed in the fight against unemployment and we have deployed all the energy we can at the european parliament level to frontload, that is to say to load the funds available so that action can be taken very quickly; we have, in fact, increased the prefinancing of youth employment initiative projects from 1 to 30% last year, breaking even european efficiency records on that day.
since 2010, progress has been made by the commission and trade continues to seek to contribute, at bilateral and multilateral level, to the respect of human rights, as well as social and environmental standards.
the human rights clauses in trade agreements, the presence of binding sustainable development chapters and the commission's action on the international stage must be maintained and strengthened.
in this sense, we must call on the wto to take greater account of social and environmental standards in its reform.
i am referring to the sustainability pact, launched in the wake of the rana plaza tragedy.
‒ engines from non-road mobile machinery make a significant contribution to air pollution and are responsible for around 15% of nitrogen oxides (nox) and 5% of particulate matter (pm) emissions in the eu moreover, their share of total nox emissions in the eu will increase over the same period from 15 to 19% in 2020. while the standards for emissions from road vehicles have become stricter, the measures for non-road mobile engines have lagged behind.
‒ this proposal substantially updates the type-approval system for engines of the emnr with regard to technical requirements for emissions.
‒ emissions from non-road vehicles account for 15% of total nitrogen dioxide (nox) emissions and 5% of fine particulate matter emissions in the eu.
the european parliament was then called upon to consider comprehensive legislation to regulate emissions from this type of craft.
is, according to the commission's impact study, the source of a significant amount of pollution: it produces, among other things, 5% of the emissions of fine particles in the eu.
the environmental perspective is commendable, but it is being used to the detriment of the principle of reality, which calls for more flexibility in the transition period.
‒ while the text of this regulation is in favour of limiting emissions of nitrogen oxides and particulate matter, which i can only support, for combustion engines for non-road mobile machinery, it does have the following very negative features: it provides for harmonisation with us standards in the context of the tafta negotiations, and it aims at a standardisation of european standards, which will undermine the diversity of the supply of these products and the competitiveness of european manufacturers.
according to the commission's impact study, non-road mobile machinery is responsible for 15% of nitrogen oxide emissions and 5% of particulate matter emissions in the european union.
it is also absolutely counterproductive to tighten up the current legislation at a time when our companies are already suffering unfair international competition because of the environmental dumping by emerging countries.
non-road mobile machinery is responsible for 15% of nitrogen oxide emissions and 5% of particulate matter emissions in the union.
i am in favour of finding a reasonable balance between the health and environmental concerns put forward by the commission and the competitiveness of the union's manufacturing industry, which is vital for our jobs.
a stable regulatory environment for industry must be ensured.
as the non-road mobile machinery sector is one of many sectors contributing to the emission of harmful gases or particles, this report presents a balanced compromise between health and environmental concerns on the one hand and the competitiveness of the union's manufacturing industry and jobs on the other.
‒ improving air quality is absolutely essential for the protection of human health and the environment.
i therefore fully support this balanced and reasonable report, which aims to protect the health of citizens and the environment while preserving the economic viability of the sectors concerned by the use of emnr.
considering that the latter are responsible for around 15% of nitrogen oxide emissions and 5% of particulate matter, it is imperative to strengthen the emission limits applicable to those engines and to extend the scope of the emission limits to new categories of engines and to new pollutants.
such measures are, in my view, essential to ensure a gradual reduction in polluting emissions from fossil fuels.
the text seeks to ensure a balanced approach between the competitiveness of european industry and environmental protection, even though these machines account for almost 15% of nitrogen oxides and 5% of fine particulate matter emissions in the union.
non-road mobile machinery is the source of a significant amount of pollution, according to the commission's impact study: 15% of nitrogen oxide (nox) emissions and 5% of particulate matter emissions in the eu.
the commission's study which seems to show that non-road mobile machinery (nmme) is the source of more pollution, representing 5% of particulate matter emissions in the eu, does not allow it to plan to end it through stricter regulation.
this report is a proposal for a regulation on emissions from non-road mobile machinery.
non-road mobile machinery, which accounts for 15% of nitrogen oxide emissions and 5% of particulate matter emissions in the european union, is partly covered by directive 97/68/ec.
‒ the proposed regulation aims to reduce pollutant emissions (in particular carcinogenic ultrafine particles) from non-road mobile machinery.
more specifically, it is about curbing air pollution from tractors, lawn mowers, bulldozers, locomotives, inland waterway vessels, etc., which cause about 15% of nox emissions and 5% of particulate matter emissions in the eu.
the regulation sets stricter emission limits for nitrogen oxides (nox), hydrocarbons (hc), carbon monoxide (co) and particulate matter to adapt them to new technologies.
‒ this proposal substantially updates the type-approval system for engines of the emnr with regard to technical requirements for emissions.
‒ the proposal substantially updates the type-approval system for engines for non-road mobile machinery with regard to technical requirements for emissions.
this report provides a balanced compromise between the need to protect the environment and the need not to undermine the competitiveness of european union enterprises.
‒ certain non-road mobile machinery, such as certain boats or diesel locomotives, account for 15% of total nitrogen dioxide (nox) emissions and 5% of fine particulate matter emissions in the european union.
i voted in favour of rules which will limit these emissions but which will not jeopardise the competitiveness of our european companies in the sector, which will be able to comply quickly with the european regulation.
these engines are responsible for 15% of nitrogen oxide emissions and 5% of fine particulate matter emissions in the union.
the commission should also implement monitoring programmes to determine the discrepancy between measured and actual emissions.
i think the text strikes a good balance between protecting the environment and health on the one hand, and the competitiveness of european businesses on the other.
the primary aim of this report is to ensure the protection of the environment and the health of people working in the vicinity of machinery and therefore particularly exposed to emissions.
internal combustion engines are a major source of greenhouse gas and fine particulate matter emissions that are particularly harmful to human health and the environment.
‒ non-road mobile machinery accounts for 5% of the eu's particulate matter emissions.
the text thus seems to be moving in the right direction by proposing harmonisation of standards across the european union with a view to reducing these particulate emissions.
the fight to preserve the environment is a matter for us all.
manufacturers are investing in making their engines less polluting and are succeeding in reducing emissions.
finally, and this is the heart of the matter, the report aims at the sustainable integration of migrants, which goes against the will of the people and the capacity of the states to welcome them.
i would now like to conclude by saying that, since we have set ourselves this objective, we must support the un initiative which envisages the establishment in the treaties of environmental and social standards to be imposed on multinational companies.
social, environmental and human rights standards in trade agreements have become a major concern for citizens.
i agree with some of the wishes expressed in this report, but i am very cautious about how to mix and even impose free trade, human rights, social and environmental standards.
a growing number of them are promoting their social responsibility strategies in response to a range of social, environmental and economic pressures.
‒ this document is based on the belief that trade policies must make a positive contribution to respect for social and environmental standards and, more generally, for human rights.
the eu's trade strategy should promote democratic values and interests in third countries, for example by suspending a trade agreement in the event of non-compliance with democratic values, or by establishing free trade in green goods in the name of sustainable development.
i agree with some of the ideas expressed in this report but remain cautious about the desire to impose free trade, human rights and social and environmental standards.
‒ i have decided to abstain on this report on the implementation of the 2010 parliament recommendations on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate responsibility.
the text does indeed have noble aims, such as the promotion of high-quality social and environmental standards, values which should be taken more seriously by the wto.
‒ the report calls for international trade practices to incorporate social and environmental values and obligations concerning human rights, particularly those of children.
‒ this report advocates that the eu's trade strategy should be a lever to promote democracy, human rights and sustainable development in third countries.
in concrete terms, the document advocates the inclusion of binding social and environmental clauses in new trade agreements.
while we share the desire to restrict tariff concessions to countries which deliberately practice social, environmental and fiscal dumping, we are perplexed by the idea of imposing our conception of democracy in third countries in return for trade agreements.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate responsibility.
‒ this own-initiative report aims to analyse the implementation of social and environmental standards and corporate social responsibility (csr) in trade negotiations.
it presents the main progress made in this area and recalls the need to establish closer cooperation with the international labour organisation (ilo) and to monitor and apply the corporate social responsibility (csr) clauses on human rights and sustainable development in international agreements.
considering that european trade policy must also respect the environmental, human and social interests of the european union, i supported this report.
i supported this report which reports on the implementation of the 2010 european parliament recommendations on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate responsibility in the context of european trade policy.
the link between trade and sustainable development requires us to put trade at the service of development.
the rules governing trade, at both european and global level, must integrate social and environmental standards, corporate social and environmental responsibility, and human rights.
at bilateral level, when negotiating trade agreements, the union should ensure that provisions on sustainable development are strengthened, ex ante and ex post impact assessments are systematised and corrective measures are applied in cases of non-respect of human rights by its partners.
according to this text, wto trade policies must contribute positively, through legally binding clauses, to the promotion of human rights, social and environmental standards, the right to health, education and protection of children, access to water and sustainable development in third countries.
‒ abstention: agree with some of the views expressed in this report but very cautious about how to mix or even impose free trade, human rights, social and environmental standards.
all my colleagues in the enl group and i agree with some of the wishes expressed in this report, but we are very cautious about how to mix and even impose free trade, human rights and social and environmental standards.
‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague eleonora forenza on the implementation of the 2010 parliament recommendations on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate responsibility.
‒ i voted in favour of this report on the implementation of the recommendations of the parliament, which in november 2010 had voted in favour of two own-initiative reports on human rights and social and environmental standards in international trade and corporate social responsibility in international trade agreements .
‒ i abstained on the report on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate responsibility.
the main thrust of this document is that trade policies must contribute positively to human rights, social and environmental standards.
the report argues that the eu's trade strategy should be a tool for promoting democratic values and interests in third countries, a lever for promoting human rights, the right to health, child labour, sustainable development and environmental standards.
we agree with some of the wishes expressed in this report, but we are very cautious about how to mix and even impose free trade, human rights, social and environmental standards.
‒ the aim of the text is to introduce a social and environmental dimension into trade policies.
values such as human rights, democracy and sustainable development should be upheld by the commission in wto (world trade organisation) agreements as well as in free trade treaties.
the european union would like to see social and environmental criteria introduced in the treaty, which could then be imposed on third countries.
in the forenza report, which i amended, we call on the european commission to systematically include binding chapters on sustainable development, which make the introduction of trade preferences conditional on the parties respecting their human rights commitments.
‒ i agree with some of the wishes expressed in this report, but i am very cautious about how to mix, or even impose, free trade, human rights, social and environmental standards.
we agree with some of the wishes expressed in this report, but we are very cautious about how to mix and even impose free trade, human rights, social and environmental standards together.
i agree with some of the wishes expressed in this report, but i am very cautious about how to mix and even impose free trade, human rights, social and environmental standards.
‒ i voted in favour of this report on the implementation of parliament's 2010 recommendations on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate responsibility.
‒ i voted in favour of the forenza report on the implementation of social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate responsibility.
trade is also an instrument for promoting european values, and can generalise the effective and systematic inclusion and implementation of social and environmental standards.
for example, by monitoring and enforcing human rights clauses in the union's international agreements with an open and inclusive approach, by establishing a closer link between human rights clauses, by introducing regulations prohibiting the import into the union of goods produced by modern forms of slavery or forced labour in violation of fundamental human rights standards, or by improving the commission's model for assessing the impact on sustainable development.
i agree with some of the wishes expressed in this text, but i am very cautious about how to mix free trade, human rights, social and environmental standards.
‒ i voted in favour of this report, which builds on work carried out in 2010 on human rights and social and environmental standards in international trade and on corporate social responsibility in trade agreements.
‒ i supported this resolution which sets out detailed proposals to be implemented by the european commission to ensure that the union's trade policy is a relevant instrument for defending and promoting social and environmental standards, human rights and the principle of corporate social responsibility.
‒ i voted in favour of this report, for which i was the epp's fictitious rapporteur, on the implementation of the recommendations made by parliament in 2010 on human rights, social and environmental standards and corporate social responsibility in international trade.
the text also recalls that trade contributes to the respect of human rights, in particular through the inclusion of human rights clauses in eu agreements and the inclusion of ambitious sustainable development chapters.
the european union must continue its actions to improve the contribution of trade to respect for human rights and social and environmental standards.
‒ this report argues that trade policies must contribute positively to human rights and social and environmental standards, i.e.
they must promote the right to health, the prohibition of child labour by no longer producing in countries that can practice this, sustainable development, or environmental standards.
in addition, transparency must be drastically increased and the link between trade, development and the raising of social, environmental and labour standards must be automatic.
‒ i voted in favour of this report which recalls that trade is not an end in itself but a means to ensure prosperity and equality, to promote trade prospects, sustainable economic development, social progress and understanding between cultures, to generate jobs and to improve living conditions without burdening public finances.
‒ the text highlights some positive aspects, such as the fight against illicit trade in wildlife products, the strengthening of trade defenses such as the protection of aocs, the inclusion of a number of social and environmental values in the wto, and the refusal of china's market economy status.
paradoxically, the text advocates fighting all forms of protectionism while proposing to include social and environmental clauses in future trade agreements and to make tariff concessions conditional on respect for democracy and human rights.
it is about strengthening sustainable development and promoting human rights and social and environmental standards worldwide.
it states that trade is not an end in itself but a means of strengthening social, environmental and working conditions.
the text aims to include human rights, social and environmental standards in trade policy.
we also believe that trade should not be an end in itself but rather a means of raising social, environmental and labour standards worldwide.
crises at sea can be many: marine pollution, illegal fishing, the influx of refugees in dangerous boats.
you spoke of the union for energy and digital; i will also speak about the space sector, which holds extraordinary opportunities in terms of applications and services and which must allow europe to benefit from independent access to the absolutely strategic space.
in particular, it will be up to slovakia to take part in the negotiations for the united kingdom's effective withdrawal from the union and to anticipate the replacement of the british presidency, initially planned for the second half of 2017. i am therefore pleased to see the priorities announced by the slovak government, which will focus on economic and monetary union, competitiveness, immigration, the protection of external borders, the digital single market and the energy union.
you talk about energy transition and the european commission, like the council, refuses to make progress on efficiency or renewables, which would create jobs throughout our territory.
the european union must cooperate closely with azerbaijan on energy issues and the fight against terrorism and in many other areas.
this will lead to increased participation of azerbaijan in certain union programmes and strengthen partnerships in the environment, culture, education and technology.
‒ i voted in favour of this report which will allow for a gradual opening up of azerbaijan to certain eu programmes, and will thus offer the opportunity to strengthen links in the fields of culture, education, environment and technology.
the text notes the increase in cyberattacks against the private and public sectors and proposes concrete solutions: the establishment of national authorities on these issues, coordination between countries, upgrading of key operators (energy, transport, etc.).
incident reporting measures should also be focused on infrastructure providing essential services such as energy, transport and financial markets.
operators of essential services (such as energy, transport, health, banking, drinking water supply and distribution, etc.)
from 2018, all infrastructures providing essential services (internet service providers, energy, transport, financial markets, health and public administrations) will be obliged to notify a cyber attack and take appropriate measures to ensure network and information security (nis).
in the interests of proportionality and efficiency, the obligation to notify incidents has been limited to infrastructure providing essential services, such as energy, transport, financial markets or the food supply chain.
in particular, companies providing services in sectors such as energy, transport, banking and healthcare will be supported to improve their resilience to cyber attacks.
the text aims to establish an open, safe and secure cyberspace and provides for security obligations for 'operators of essential services' in sectors such as energy, transport, health, banking and drinking water supply.
its main objective is to improve security in the online environment and to strengthen cooperation between member states and the european institutions in this field, in order to overcome the current fragmentation.
‒ this proposal concerns the obligation to label household products on energy efficiency.
‒ in this report, we call for the introduction of a new and stricter scale from a to g identifying the energy efficiency of household appliances, in order to keep pace with technological progress.
stricter requirements will further stimulate improvements in energy efficiency.
the label shall contain information on the energy efficiency class of the product model and its absolute consumption in kwh, expressed per year or any other relevant time period.
‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to give energy efficiency labelling a second life, making it simpler, stronger, safer, clearer and more progressive.
finally, the regulation calls for the creation of energy efficiency databases, which are structures that involve additional expenditure that the industries concerned cannot afford in the current situation.
‒ i could not possibly have voted in favour of this report on energy efficiency labelling.
worse, it leads to a further waste of taxpayer money as it wants to create a european database of products with their efficiency ranking, which would amount to 1.5 million euros of costs.
on the other hand, it considerably strengthens the commission's role, without however specifying the criteria used, the time limits of this energy efficiency labelling regulation, or the market surveillance to prevent volkswagen-type cheating.
‒ this report deals with the obligation to label products for energy efficiency, particularly in household appliances.
in concrete terms, the regulation will create a european product database, with the classification of their energy efficiency, the cost of which is estimated at eur 1.5 million.
‒ it is important that consumers are adequately informed about the energy efficiency of the products they buy.
a european energy efficiency label will increase transparency and comparability for energy-using products.
we see that there is a growing need to be careful about our energy consumption.
the new energy efficiency scale a-g will encourage consumers to buy greener products and encourage producers to create more energy-efficient products.
‒ this legislative report proposes to revise the rules on energy efficiency labelling.
the rapporteur proposes, in particular, to introduce a clear scale from a to g identifying the energy efficiency of household appliances and replacing the "+"s proliferating in the current upper class (a+, a++, a+++), within 5 years.
this draft revision is part of the union's energy and climate objectives for 2020 and 2030. in order to provide greater clarity to the consumer, the text also introduces clearer labels showing the energy efficiency class of the product model, and its absolute consumption in kwh over a given period of time.
by voting on this text, parliament has set its guidelines and given a negotiating mandate to improve the existing energy labelling legislation.
i support measures to make energy labelling more readable and understandable for consumers.
they must be able to easily evaluate the products they consume, in particular by a quick comparison of their energy consumption.
energy efficiency labelling should therefore be easily understandable by all consumers.
i therefore support the simplification of the energy labelling scale from a to g. this will help consumers to make better informed choices about energy-efficient products, and thus save significantly.
in addition to this economic aspect, this report brings us closer to the energy targets we have set ourselves.
the measures in this report can provide real incentives to invest in sustainable energy consumption models.
i therefore support this report, which has many advances for both consumers and the environment, and i hope that discussions with the council and the commission will begin quickly to arrive at a clear and effective final text.
in order to provide clearer information to consumers and reduce their energy consumption, the current system needs to be refined and clarified.
according to ademe, nearly 76% of consumers in france say they are influenced by energy labelling when making a purchase.
‒ this text concerns an obligation to label products on energy efficiency.
energy labelling allows everyone to save money by choosing products that consume less energy.
it is therefore important to ensure that there is a real incentive to invest in better, more energy-efficient systems, including heating.
tax incentives should be offered for products which represent an energy efficiency advantage over the older products used.
‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr dario tamburrano, on energy efficiency labelling.
the text calls for simplification of the single energy labelling by removing labels that could be confusing and replacing them with a clearer scale from a to g. this amendment to the code will make it easier for consumers to be informed about the energy efficiency of products and will enable everyone to contribute to environmental protection.
‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to provide consumers with clearer information on the energy efficiency of products by proposing a new, single and simplified energy labelling scale.
consumers will thus be able to choose more energy-efficient products and thus reduce their energy consumption.
‒ i voted against this energy report because it wants to impose additional bureaucratic obligations on the states.
‒ i voted against the report on energy efficiency labelling.
‒ the text aims to strengthen the legislative framework surrounding the energy efficiency of products.
many points lead to opposition, in particular the strengthening of the weight of the european institutions, the leeway granted to the commission to fix the terms of the regulation for an indefinite period... the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the right to vote on the proposals for the directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
this regulation regulates the energy efficiency labelling requirements for products.
‒ providing accurate, relevant, verifiable and comparable information on the specific energy consumption of energy-intensive products facilitates the customer's choice in favour of products that consume less energy.
mandatory uniform labelling is an effective means of providing potential consumers with comparable information on the absolute energy consumption and energy efficiency of energy-using products.
thus the energy efficiency class should not be established exclusively on the basis of the most energy-efficient setting or the eco mode, as this is not representative of the behaviour of the average consumer .
i am voting for this text and the few elements it contains to promote energy efficiency, but without any illusions about the lack of general ambition on the part of the union in this area.
‒ i voted in favour of the commission's proposal on energy efficiency labelling.
the adoption of such a text, which establishes a new, single and simplified energy labelling scale, is essential to better inform the consumer about the energy efficiency of the products he buys.
‒ i voted in favour of the new rules on energy efficiency labelling of products.
consumers will now be able to see a new, single and simplified energy labelling scale from a to g on products.
‒ i supported the resolution on energy efficiency labelling to update and make more effective the existing legislation on energy efficiency labelling.
providing accurate and comparable information on the energy consumption of energy-related products through clear and effective labelling is important to enable consumers to choose more energy-efficient products.
the label should contain information on the energy efficiency class of the product model and its absolute consumption in kwh for a given period of time.
finally, it is important that this system is accompanied by increased market surveillance, educational and promotional information campaigns on energy labelling, close cooperation with suppliers and dealers and an exchange of good practices.
‒ i voted in favour of this report on energy efficiency labelling.
the text calls for the introduction of a new, stricter a to g scale, which specifies the energy efficiency of household appliances.
this labelling allows european citizens to choose the products that consume the least energy and thus to save money and to contribute to a better use of energy resources.
the report recalls that the labelling process must have a real incentive for european consumers to buy the most energy-efficient products.
the european union must continue its energy efficiency policy and provide european citizens with the tools to prioritise sustainable products.
‒ this report, which repeals the previous directive, does not bring any real innovation on energy labelling regulations.
the other member states would then be asked to re-impose controls at their borders with the country concerned for a period of six months, renewable three times.
this agency would have essential missions, as highlighted by our news: to ensure a high, uniform and effective level of maritime safety within the european union, to prevent pollution and to respond to pollution caused by ships or oil and gas installations.
the agency's initial mission was to ensure safety in maritime transport and to monitor pollution related to this transport, but it is now responsible for 'the provision of surveillance and communication services based on advanced technologies' and for cooperation 'with regard to coast guard functions'.
‒ today there are no less than 70 different structures through which national authorities manage disaster at sea, maritime safety, environmental protection and maritime border control.
‒ there are currently over 316 national authorities in europe to manage various functions (environment, coastguards, borders, etc.
‒ in the face of administrative shortcomings resulting from the lack of information on the competences of the 316 national authorities coexisting to manage border control and the protection of the marine environment, this report proposes to extend the scope of the european fisheries control agency (efca).
‒ the report aims to make recommendations for the post-election review of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. it is a long lament about ceilings that lead to waste to be disposed of.
in the face of the new challenges of migration, asylum and terrorism, there is a particular need to raise the ceilings on security and citizenship, just as there is an urgent need to consider the creation of the union's own resources on the basis of innovative solutions, such as a carbon tax or a financial transaction tax.
‒ i voted in favour of parliament's recommendations on the preparation of the post-election revision of the multiannual financial framework (mff) for the period 2014-2020. a review of the mff is necessary to take stock of the budgetary implications of the challenges that have emerged over the last two years, such as the migrant and refugee crisis, youth unemployment, the crisis in the agricultural sector, environmental challenges and internal security to respond to the terrorist threat.
it is outdated and must be reoriented towards the objectives of growth and jobs, solidarity with refugees, preservation of the environment and securing our borders.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally sound use of energy.
there is an urgent need to foster synergies between european funds and other european union competitiveness policies, in particular in the field of research and development, ict, renewable energy and smes, in order to increase the exploitation rate of european r&d results and to create new quality jobs.
synergies between other union competitiveness policies, notably in the field of research and development, information and communication technologies, renewable energy and smes, should also be increased.
environmental and public health issues must be top priorities in 2017. for example, i attach great importance to the completion of work on the circular economy, a topic on which i have been very invested for a number of years.
‒ i voted in favour of this text, which constitutes parliament's contribution to the european commission's work programme for 2017. this work programme should focus on a few major priorities where the european union can bring real added value: the fight against illegal immigration, strengthening the euro area, cooperation against terrorism, developing the single market and implementing the digital strategy and the energy union.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the commission's work programme for 2017. the programme is structured to respond to current challenges such as the environment, efficiency, energy independence and diversification, security at the eu's external borders and within the member states, and the development and competitiveness of smes.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which gives the european parliament's recommendations for the european commission's work programme for 2017. the resolution focuses on ten priority areas such as economic recovery and competitiveness, climate change, the management of migration and refugees, security, the union's external action and the establishment of fair taxation.
the commission should also propose more measures to foster innovation and research in order to better meet the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy for jobs and sustainable growth.
the text reminds the commission of the objective of completing economic and monetary union in order to guarantee sustainable economic growth and of the need for a new budgetary strategy to meet the challenges of the present.
from an ecological point of view, respect for marine biodiversity suggests that japan should be required to review its decision; the main threat to whales is not from hunting, but from the microplastics ingested by whales (many of which are at sea).
the subject is legitimate, even if the protection of whales is more about preventing marine pollution than constraints on a whale-loving country.
whaling is a necessary threat to biodiversity, as some species of whales are threatened with extinction.
however, the problem of whale ingestion of plastic waste, which causes massive strandings, will also have to be addressed.
on the other hand, whaling is a serious threat to biodiversity.
this resumption of whaling is very bad news for the protection of marine biodiversity and ecosystems.
we must act as partners in the preservation of marine biodiversity.
whaling is a necessary threat to biodiversity, as some species are threatened with extinction.
i voted for this text even though the greatest concern for the future of whales today is mainly the mass strandings of whales on the coast due to the ingestion of plastic waste.
there is no reason to object to this, but it should be noted that the biggest threat to whales today is plastic pollution, which is now more dangerous than global warming or increasing salinity and acidity of the water.
whaling is also a necessary threat to biodiversity, as some species of whales are threatened with extinction.
however, it should be stressed that the greatest threat to cetaceans today is plastic pollution, which is now more dangerous than global warming or increasing salinity and acidity of water.
‒ i voted in favour of this report which condemns japan's decision to resume whaling for the 2015-2016 season, even though the international court of justice ordered the country in 2014 to stop these killings which harm the protection of biodiversity and marine ecosystems.
whaling is a necessary threat to biodiversity, as some species of whales are threatened with extinction.
however, the biggest concern for the future of whales today is not japan but the mass strandings of whales on the coast, due to the ingestion of plastic waste.
whaling is a threat to biodiversity.
it is making the situation worse for these cetaceans, which are increasingly affected by problems of plastic pollution, global warming and increasing sea salinity.
‒ whaling is a violation of international law and undermines the protection of marine biodiversity and ecosystems, especially as most species are threatened with extinction.
it should be noted that the biggest threat to cetaceans today is plastic pollution, which is now more dangerous than global warming or increasing salinity and acidity of water.
they therefore constitute a violation of international law and harm the protection of marine biodiversity and ecosystems.
‒ whaling is a serious threat to the marine ecosystem and the survival of the species.
this decision was made in violation of international law, as the international court of justice ordered japan to cease all activities related to whaling on march 31, 2014. however, japan has challenged the jurisdiction of the international court of justice, which does not oblige it to stop its activities, which are dangerous to the life and sustainability of antarctic whale species.
in addition to animal suffering, these activities threaten the survival of the species and undermine the protection of marine biodiversity and ecosystems.
whether it's health issues, environmental issues, tax issues, or corruption, we need this information, we need to protect these people, not see them prosecuted and sent to prison.
we ask you, on behalf of the environmental group, to produce a european-wide text to defend the general interest of protecting whistleblowers.
madam president, yes, it is good that we approve the work under way under the presidency of ambassador espinosa, representing the ecuadorian state, in favour of a treaty which requires multinationals to comply with social and environmental standards.
‒ this own-initiative report makes recommendations to the council on peace, security, the fight against terrorism, non-proliferation, disarmament, migration, human rights, democracy, the rule of law, development, climate change and reform of the un system.
this report proposes actions related to the many issues that the un must address: peace and security, terrorism, human rights, development, climate change and reform of the un system.
i voted in favour of the kovatchev report on the 71st session of the united nations general assembly, which contains a series of recommendations from the european union to the united nations council on peacekeeping, the fight against terrorism, migration, human rights and climate change.
i particularly supported our call to the un to fill the legal vacuum around the concept of 'climate refugee', in particular by looking at the possibility of an international definition.
‒ i voted in favour of this report, which makes recommendations to the council on security and peace, the fight against terrorism, disarmament and non-proliferation, migration, human rights and climate change.
on migration, it plans to strengthen the budget of the united nations high commissioner for refugees and addresses the legal vacuum surrounding the concept of 'climate refugee'.
‒ while i am obviously in favour of the adequate integration of people with disabilities into society and an improvement in their well-being, and if i cannot oppose the implementation of an already signed convention, in compliance with international law, i am, on the other hand, strongly opposed to the open-environment implementation strategy as proposed to the commission in this own-initiative report, and to the approach to disability itself, because of its lack of objectivity in the definition of disability.
this logic of systematic integration into a normal environment is limited by the constraints of reality: in a school environment, it is the disabled parents themselves who argue that certain disabilities are better taken care of in a specialised environment.
the text seeks to develop systematic integration in a normal environment without taking into account certain concrete elements.
to introduce equality between disabled people and others, disabled people must be able to do everything and like everyone else, which is a dogmatic view of integration into society (forced inclusion in an open environment).
the proposed claims (caffeine improves endurance, alertness and concentration) are a real problem with energy drinks as they can lead to dangerous consumption (especially when mixed with alcohol), however, the french coffee union told us that these claims were expected by companies (some of them french) to revive coffee consumption among young people and that no french company manufactures energy drinks.
however, these claims are necessary to revive coffee consumption among young people, who often prefer energy drinks to more serious health effects, a revival all the more important than expected by a significant number of companies.
energy drinks are caffeinated products.
the problem is that such health information about energy drinks would likely influence young people's consumption.
these claims take the form of positive advertising on sugary drinks and energy drinks, of which young people are the main consumers.
‒ i voted against this objection to refuse authorisation for caffeine-based products, such as energy drinks, to indicate health benefits on their packaging.
the european union is accused of producing rules for everything, without taking into account the real expectations of citizens: let us not therefore regulate energy drinks!
since the above allegations are expected by french companies, which do not manufacture energy drinks, i preferred to abstain on this objection.
‒ i supported this objection, which opposes the proposal to allow health claims for increased endurance and concentration for caffeinated products (energy drinks in particular).
they would encourage excessive consumption of these energy drinks, especially among young people, even though they are also the subject of health warnings and should be consumed in moderation, for example, due to their high sugar content.
the commission proposal allows health claims for improved concentration and increased endurance and physical capacity from caffeinated products such as energy drinks.
‒ i voted in favour of this objection in order to prevent caffeinated energy drinks from being used to promote alertness or concentration and to limit their consumption by children and adolescents who are particularly vulnerable.
these claims are a real problem with energy drinks as they can lead to unsafe consumption (especially when mixed with alcohol).
however, the french coffee union stresses that these allegations were expected by companies (some of them french) to revive coffee consumption among young people and that no french company manufactures energy drinks.
but the regulation it proposes allows health claims for the benefits of caffeine in energy drinks (redbull).
the report opposes this regulation, arguing that these products can contain up to 27 g of sugar and 80 mg of caffeine for a 250 ml can of energy drink.
and yet, "energy drinks have been linked to headaches, insomnia and behavioral problems in children and adolescents who regularly consume them".
the effect of such a text would have been to allow products such as certain energy drinks, which are sometimes the subject of health warnings, to claim health benefits.
‒ i voted against this objection which will prevent the manufacturers of energy drinks from mentioning the positive effects they claim to have on them, linked to the caffeine or sugar in the drinks.
in fact, some manufacturers would like to see sugary drinks and caffeinated energy drinks claimed to promote alertness or concentration.
i do not think that these health claims should be used for energy drinks.
the commission provides for an exception for products targeting children and adolescents, whereas energy drinks are mainly consumed by adolescents.
given that already 25% of teenagers who consume energy drinks drink three or more cans in one sitting, it seems inappropriate to encourage even greater amounts, which is why i supported the objection.
this type of claim could apply, for example, to energy drinks; however, this type of drink is subject to health warnings and it is unthinkable that this product could then benefit from these health claims.
finally, mr president, i would like to point out that the free movement of persons is a prerequisite for achieving the objectives of economic, social, territorial and environmental cohesion, particularly for crossborder workers.
for the greens/efa group mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this report should normally be aimed at promoting sustainable development in the alpine region and there is a real lack of ecological ambition in the area of transport and the development of renewable energy.
we are calling for sound management of public money, we are for the immediate modal shift, of course, which will remove the heavy pollution from the alpine valleys, but we are proposing cheaper and easier to implement solutions for which it is perfectly possible to use the existing railway infrastructure.
mr president, as the representative of the south-east of france, i am very much committed to the preservation of the second largest area of biodiversity in europe, the alpine region.
for 25 years i have been advocating for the quality of life of the people and respect for the environment.
although the eu is funding this project at an excessive cost, the alpine strategy has the merit of advocating sustainable forest and ecosystem management and cross-border cooperation in managing climate and hydrogeological risks.
smes need a stable tax environment, less red tape, easier access to credit, but also smart dumping protections.
climate change: of course, there was the announcement of the ratification of the paris agreement by the united states and china.
on the ecological front, the signing of the paris agreement by the united states and china was given great prominence, but at the same time we learned that turkey was planning to build 80 coal-fired power stations and that china was not giving up its plan to build thermal power stations until 2030. the situation in syria has not improved much, despite the very fragile and very partial ceasefire that has taken place.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to welcome the work of our commission, which is working very carefully to reveal the shortcomings of our industries and our institutions in the control of pollutant emissions.
the challenge is to ensure cleaner mobility, while respecting public health and the environment, and at the same time preserving jobs.
the challenge is to promote sustainable development that benefits all.
one year after the discovery of this massive fraud in the pollution test, nothing has been done, except the creation of our commission of inquiry.
no major measures have been taken by the commission or the member states to enforce european pollution standards, to protect the health of citizens and to restore consumer confidence.
‒ for the union to become a smart, sustainable and inclusive economy by 2020, regions need to put in place research and innovation strategies for smart specialisation.
‒ in the context of europe 2020, each member state defined its national and regional innovation strategies for smart specialisation (sri-si) in 2014. these aim to increase synergies between different european, national and regional policies, in order to invest in key areas such as education, innovation, social inclusion and energy.
‒ smart specialisation aims to better mobilise all structural funds for 'smart, sustainable and inclusive growth', by encouraging regions to adopt economic development models adapted to their strengths and by strengthening synergies between european policies in favour of research and innovation.
the establishment of new and sustainable growth, based in particular on research and innovation, is fundamental in a european union plagued by unemployment and unfair competition from emerging countries.
it also highlights its potential beyond regional policy, in areas such as the single market, the digital agenda, employment, mobility, culture, health and the environment.
this gives project promoters the opportunity to join forces to finance their projects in different fields such as employment, the environment or tourism.
this regional policy objective promotes cooperation between different regions of the union by financing projects that go beyond national borders in the fields of employment, transport, the environment and tourism.
the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national and regional authorities responsible for the protection of the environment.
as part of its policy of supporting the regions of the member states, the eu promotes cooperation between countries (whether crossborder, transnational or interregional), which is characterised in particular by joint projects in the fields of employment, transport, tourism or the environment.
european legislation clearly defines what is prohibited, but its effective implementation and enforcement are sometimes lacking: the commission is sending the ball back to the member states, who are sending the ball back to the manufacturers, demonstrating that europe is sorely lacking in a coherent overall framework to ensure compliance with standards that limit pollution.
‒ in 2015, revelations by us researchers of software cheating to mask nitrogen dioxide emissions from diesel engines led to the volkswagen scandal.
this process allowed the world's leading car manufacturer to export to the united states despite strict limits on nitrogen dioxide emissions.
this interim report sets out the methodology and hearings that constitute parliament's inquiry into emissions in the automotive sector.
‒ i voted in favour of this text, which encourages the committee of inquiry to continue its work to examine allegations of breach of eu law concerning the world's leading car manufacturer volkswagen, which allegedly used rigging software to mask nitrogen dioxide emissions in order to export more to the united states.
‒ it is particularly useful to ask about the practices of car manufacturers in relation to carbon dioxide emissions and about possible cheating by manufacturers in relation to carbon dioxide checks.
‒ on 18 september 2015, the volkswagen scandal broke, following the revelations by us researchers of software cheating to hide the nitrogen dioxide emissions of diesel engines.
this process allowed the world's leading car manufacturer to export to the united states despite strict limits on nitrogen dioxide emissions.
this interim report details the methodology of the parliament's inquiry into emissions in the automotive sector.
‒ this own-initiative report presents a mid-term review of the committee of inquiry into the measurement of emissions in the automotive sector (emis committee), of which i am an alternate member.
the commission was set up in march last year in the wake of the volkswagen scandal to shed light on the fact that vehicle emissions in europe are exceeding the limits.
‒ this is a methodological interim report by the european parliament on the car emissions survey.
on 18 september 2015, it was revealed that the multinational company had used fraudulent methods to falsify the measurements of nitrogen dioxide emissions from diesel engines in its vehicles.
it is important to continue work on this subject in order to understand the reasons for the delay in introducing new tests to reduce the difference between actual emissions on the road and laboratory-tested emissions.
but it is already clear that the priority given to the fight against co2 emissions has for a long time eclipsed the fight against nox, which is also very harmful to health.
‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague pablo zalba bidegain on the work of the committee of inquiry into the measurement of emissions in the automotive sector.
‒ i voted in favour of this interim report on the work of the committee of inquiry into the measurement of emissions in the automotive sector (emis).
these could shed light on the responsibility of the diesel emissions scandal.
with evidence growing that the commission was aware of software that was rigging laboratory pollution tests, the european parliament's inquiry committee is now looking into who blocked the revelations within the commission.
this interim report sets out the methodology and hearings that constitute parliament's inquiry into emissions in the automotive sector.
‒ following the volkswagen scandal, the european parliament set up this ad hoc committee in december 2015 to investigate volkswagen's fraudulent practices in the calculation of nitrogen dioxide emissions from its diesel engines.
‒ this interim report by the european parliament's committee of inquiry into emissions measurement in the automotive sector (emis) follows the volkswagen scandal that broke at the end of 2015. a vast software system for cheating eu pollution tests was found on 11 million diesel vehicles worldwide.
in view of the issues of public interest, public health and the environment, i am voting in favour of this report by the emis committee of inquiry, so that the full light is shed on this scandal of fraud in pollution tests.
the establishment of this committee of inquiry follows the volkswagen scandal, which on 18 september 2015 revealed the use of fraudulent maneuvers by the multinational to falsify the measurements of nitrogen dioxide emissions from the diesel engines of its vehicles.
‒ on 18 september 2015, the volkswagen scandal erupted following the revelations by us researchers of software cheating to hide the nitrogen dioxide emissions of diesel engines.
this process allowed the world's leading car manufacturer to export to the united states despite strict limits on nitrogen dioxide emissions.
this interim report sets out the methodology and hearings that constitute parliament's inquiry into emissions in the automotive sector.
‒ this interim report on the inquiry into emission measurements in the automotive sector sets out the methodology and hearings that constitute the parliament's inquiry into emissions in the automotive sector set up in the wake of the volkswagen scandal.
‒ this interim report sets out the methodology and hearings that constitute parliament's inquiry into emissions in the automotive sector.
‒ i voted in favour of the interim report of the committee of inquiry into the measurement of emissions in the automotive sector (emis), of which i am a member.
‒ the committee of inquiry into vehicle emissions fraud is only halfway through its work, but one element is already clear to its members: the problem is not so much the european legislation that regulates emissions as its effective implementation and the monitoring of its proper application.
more broadly, the challenge is to ensure cleaner mobility, while respecting public health and the environment, while preserving jobs, ultimately to promote sustainable development that benefits everyone.
‒ i voted in favour of this report, which was drawn up by the parliamentary committee of inquiry into automobile emissions, set up by parliament on 17 december 2015 and established on 2 march following the volkswagen scandal.
‒ the parliamentary committee of inquiry set up following the discovery of widespread fraud in road vehicle emissions has issued a first interim report.
the credibility of the european union in its action against pollution, for a better living environment, and consequently the confidence it inspires in its citizens, is at stake.
‒ on 18 september 2015, the volkswagen scandal broke, following the revelations by us researchers of software cheating to hide the nitrogen dioxide emissions of diesel engines.
this process allowed the world's leading car manufacturer to export to the united states despite strict limits on nitrogen dioxide emissions.
this interim report sets out the methodology and hearings that constitute parliament's inquiry into emissions in the automotive sector.
it also highlighted the influence of systematic corruption on politics and the economy, particularly in relation to public procurement linked to environmental policy.
it also highlighted cases of systematic corruption, particularly in the award of public contracts linked to environmental policy.
it also highlighted the influence of systematic corruption on politics and the economy, particularly in relation to public procurement linked to environmental policy.
in a political debate at the centro pio la torre in 2012, he said "on sunday, during our convention, i will provide the names of the people involved in the agreement between musumeci and miccichè to return to the issue of the four waste heaters run by the mafia".
at the time of the statements in question, mr crocetta was very politically engaged in the fight against organised crime and its influence on politics and the economy, in particular with regard to public procurement and environmental policy.
it also highlighted the influence of systematic corruption on politics and the economy, particularly in relation to public procurement linked to environmental policy.
it also highlighted the influence of systematic corruption on politics and the economy, particularly in relation to public procurement linked to environmental policy.
it also highlighted the influence of systematic corruption on politics and the economy, particularly in relation to public procurement linked to environmental policy.
instead of implementing a clever protectionism aimed at combating social and environmental dumping by china, the european union prefers to grant it new tariff concessions which will increase the current account deficit of the member states.
the applicant in question, lazaros stravrou lazarou, a cypriot, has been a member of the association of chartered accountants since 1987, holds a degree in international taxation and has been a member of the court since 2010. he was successively a member of the chambers "conservation and management of natural resources", "structural policies, transport and energy" and then a non-permanent member of the horizontal chamber "coordination, evaluation, assurance and development".
cyprus has already been a member since 2010. his background certainly shows that he has the profile, as he is a graduate in international taxation and in particular a member of the association of chartered accountants since 1987. however, his career at the court of auditors attests to his membership of this european oligarchy: member of the 'conservation and management of natural resources' chamber, or of the 'structural policies, transport and energy' chamber.
‒ mr lazaros stavrou lazarou has been a member of the association of chartered accountants since 1987, holds a degree in international taxation and has been a member of the court since 2010. he was successively a member of the chambers "conservation and management of natural resources", "structural policies, transport and energy" and then a non-permanent member of the horizontal chamber "coordination, evaluation, assurance and development".
he has been a member of the court since 2010. he was successively a member of the chambers "conservation and management of natural resources", "structural policies, transport and energy" and then a non-permanent member of the horizontal chamber "coordination, evaluation, assurance and development".
‒ member of the association of chartered accountants since 1987, graduated in international taxation, the applicant has been a member of the court since 2010. he was successively a member of the chambers "conservation and management of natural resources", "structural policies, transport and energy" and then a non-permanent member of the horizontal chamber "coordination, evaluation, assurance and development".
member of the association of chartered accountants since 1987, graduated in international taxation, the applicant has been a member of the court since 2010. he was successively a member of the chambers for conservation and management of natural resources, structural policies, transport and energy, and then a non-permanent member of the horizontal chamber for coordination, evaluation, assurance and development.
member of the association of chartered accountants since 1987, graduated in international taxation, the applicant has been a member of the court since 2010. he was successively a member of the chambers "conservation and management of natural resources", "structural policies, transport and energy" and then a non-permanent member of the horizontal chamber "coordination, evaluation, assurance and development".
member of the association of chartered accountants since 1987, graduated in international taxation, the applicant has been a member of the court since 2010. he was successively a member of the chambers "conservation and management of natural resources", "structural policies, transport and energy" and then a non-permanent member of the horizontal chamber "coordination, evaluation, assurance and development".
the candidate, léo brincat, former maltese minister for the environment, was involved in setting up the maltese national public audit office.
the former maltese minister for the environment was involved in setting up the national audit office in malta.
former maltese minister for the environment, leo brincat, held various senior political posts after a brief stint at barclays bank.
‒ i voted against the nomination of the maltese candidate léo brincat, who failed to convince the epp during his committee hearing, particularly because of his support for the minister for health and energy, who was then worried about the panama papers affair.
former maltese minister for the environment, leo brincat, held various leading political posts after a brief stint at barclays bank: he was successively secretary of the prime minister's office, member of the public accounts committee of the house of representatives, minister for finance and trade and member of the foreign affairs committee.
‒ the candidate for the post of member of the court of auditors is the former maltese minister for sustainable development, leo brincat.
the former maltese minister for the environment, leo brincat, was involved in setting up the maltese national public audit office.
former maltese minister for the environment, leo brincat, was involved in setting up the maltese national public audit office.
former maltese minister for the environment, he was involved in setting up the maltese national public audit office.
this proposal is an accessory to the energy liberalisation packages adopted in the years 2004-2012. the stated aim is to produce european statistics and then to encourage the creation of transnational european and then transatlantic oligopolies which, "put into competition", will "lower prices".
this text complements the energy liberalisation packages adopted in the years 2004-2012. the aim is to collect european statistics to encourage the creation of transnational european oligopolies.
this proposal is an accessory to the energy liberalisation packages adopted in the years 2004-2012. the stated aim is to produce european statistics and then to encourage the creation of transnational european and then transatlantic oligopolies which will be "competitive" and "bring down prices".
this proposal is an accessory to the energy liberalisation packages adopted in the years 2004-2012. the stated aim is to produce european statistics and then to encourage the creation of transnational european and then transatlantic oligopolies which will be "competitive" and "bring down prices".
this text is ancillary to the energy liberalisation packages adopted in the years 2004-2012. the aim is to collect european statistics and then to encourage the creation of transnational european oligopolies.
this proposal is an accessory to the energy liberalisation packages adopted in the years 2004-2012. the stated aim is to produce european statistics and then to encourage the creation of transnational european and then transatlantic oligopolies which, "put into competition", will "lower prices".
‒ i voted in favour of this report which is going in the right direction: developing a clean market for the future, which works for consumers and ensures affordable energy.
‒ this report deals with the new energy market, driven by the guidelines adopted in the context of the energy union.
this concerns macroeconomic issues in the energy market (production capacity, wholesale market, interconnection), but is repeated with the energy union and interconnection reports, 7 months away.
the text is in the illusion of an integrated energy market and the energy union (points 3 and 4), to this end it is supporting states which are not moving fast enough in the change by also speaking out against national capacity mechanisms (point 9), and puts the market before security of supply, as all european texts in this field do.
finally, ecology (in this case renewable energies) is a pretext for strengthening european federalism and for destroying national enterprises in the name of the fluidity required by intermittent energies.
‒ i voted in favour of this report, which recalls the climate and energy objectives to be achieved, which will require a fundamental transformation of the european electricity system, as well as the reorganisation of the european electricity market.
‒ i voted against this very liberal report, which once again aims at deregulating the energy market in the name of the so-called fight against (state) monopolies.
‒ i opposed this report on the energy market, despite some positive points which should be highlighted.
the need for investment in the grid, coordination between states at regional level, or respect for the principle of subsidiarity are all ideas i believe in, as is the recall of national competence on the energy mix.
however, once again a parliamentary report (which is also a duplicate of the report on the energy union, voted on only seven months ago) is in favour of a federal europe by the policy of small steps: the aim is to make the member states gradually concede whole sections of their competences, under false pretenses.
the technique here is to give more power to acer (european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators), which is increasingly emerging as a transnational regulator instead of a coordinator of national regulators.
apart from this ideological aim, the report is unrealistic since it puts the market before security of supply, in the name of the sacrosanct energy union.
his thoughts on electricity storage for renewable energy are characterised by utopia.
i consider the role of the state in energy matters to be essential, particularly in the area of security of supply.
‒ this report deals with the new energy market brought about by the guidelines adopted in the context of the energy union.
although the text emphasises the need to finance further investment in the network, i opposed this report which promotes the energy union.
on the one hand, this report aims to strengthen the powers of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) in the name of better coordination between national regulators.
we must also ensure greater energy independence and improve the security of electricity supply.
it is also essential to strengthen regional cooperation in the field of energy policy.
‒ this own-initiative report follows the european commission's communication on 'a new energy market organisation' published in july 2015. the report aims to strengthen the internal market and allow the free movement of electricity.
considering that it is necessary to fully integrate renewable energies into the common electricity grid by ensuring that their specificities (e.g.
i voted in favour of this report, which has no binding legislative value and calls for a new organisation of the energy market in europe.
i am particularly in favour of strengthening the integrated energy market, in particular to ensure a stability conducive to investment in this area.
moreover, in view of our environmental objectives, it is essential to encourage the european union and its member states to move towards greater energy efficiency, enabling lower consumption and encouraging the development of renewable energies.
the union has an energy and climate framework that foresees a 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 compared to the 1990 level, a 30% improvement in energy efficiency and a 27% increase in the share of renewable energy in the eu's energy mix.
we need to develop clean energy, improve energy savings.
finally, europe must have an autonomous energy policy, which guarantees its independence.
as usual, ecology (in this case renewable energies) is a pretext for strengthening european federalism and for destroying national enterprises, in the name of the fluidity required by intermittent energies.
‒ the parliament's reports on energy follow one another and are similar: the same call for a single energy market, which denies the exclusive competence of the states recognised by the treaties to choose their energy mix; the same mistaken belief in the market's ability to set the right price for energy, satisfactory for both producer and consumer and promoting long-term investment; the same emphasis on the need to make the electricity system more flexible, as a consequence of the requirement for increasing use of intermittent energy sources, to suggest pathways that will soon become constraints; and above all, the same ignorance of the specific situations of the states, particularly with regard to security of supply.
like it or not, france does not have the same energy problems or challenges as germany or lithuania.
in particular, it is important to strengthen regional cooperation on all supply and demand dimensions in order to be able to achieve all the energy and climate objectives set by the union for 2030. the current regulatory framework for european markets needs to be adapted to allow for an increase in the share of renewable energy and to address existing regulatory gaps at cross-border level.
in an increasingly decentralised energy system, there is a need to further stimulate investment, access of smes to the energy market and ensure sustainable and efficient electricity supply through a smart energy system.
‒ this text recites the eu mantras on renewable energy and long passages on storage (essential for intermittent solar and wind energy) (points 26 to 36) which are perfectly utopian in the current state of research.
the report has a very centrist tone: it is a caress of the hair of the states on the issues regulated by the treaties (energy mix), it is based on a scalable approach to gnaw at the competences of the states and it is based on a so-called energy market, which is, despite what the rapporteur says, a natural monopoly.
as usual, renewable energies are a pretext for strengthening european federalism and destroying national enterprises in the name of the fluidity required by intermittent energies.
the energy issue in europe is central and i would like to support a text that is a first step towards a legislative proposal on the organisation of the energy market expected by the end of 2016. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to make the energy market more flexible, particularly the electricity sector.
this report follows the commission communication and the public consultation on 'a new energy market organisation' published in july 2015. a legislative proposal on the organisation of the energy market is expected by the end of 2016.
in writing.
‒ i voted against this energy report because it is ultra-liberal in spirit.
‒ i voted against the report entitled 'towards a new organisation of the energy market'.
the report also maintains the illusion of an integrated energy market and the energy union (points 3 and 4), blaming the member states for not moving fast enough in the change process.
as usual, ecology (in this case renewable energies) is a pretext for strengthening european federalism and destroying national enterprises in the name of the fluidity required by intermittent energies.
moreover, the energy market is logically a natural monopoly, even though the states have almost no room for manoeuvre on matters governed by the treaties.
ecology is, as is too often the case, used as a pretext for strengthening european federalism and for destroying national enterprises in the name of the fluidity required by energy sources.
‒ the purpose of this report is to clarify the european parliament's position on the european commission's legislative proposal on a new energy market organisation due to be published in december 2016. given the evolution of our energy supply (methods and locations of production, development of renewable energy, etc.
this report sets out options for achieving a more fluid, open and integrated energy market.
it proposes, for example, to increase interconnections so that energy services and supplies flow across national borders on the basis of local and regional needs.
the energy supply for 500 million europeans is a crucial issue; i therefore vote in favour of this report, which has a broad consensus in parliament and respects the approach of our political group.
despite the incentive to invest in the network, we criticise the enhanced powers granted to the supranational regulator, the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer), at the expense of the authority of the states.
moreover, the energy market is logically a natural monopoly, and the states have almost no room for manoeuvre on matters governed by the treaties.
ecology is, as too often, a pretext for strengthening european federalism and for destroying national enterprises in the name of the fluidity needed by energy.
‒ this langen report towards a new energy market organisation deals with the new energy market brought about by the changes brought about by the energy union.
the report has some positive aspects (investment in the grid, reiteration of national competence on the energy mix, etc.).
however, other points are tainted by the report, such as the strengthening of the powers of acer, the endless promotion of the energy union, all tinged with liberalism.
‒ i voted in favour of this report on the new energy market organisation.
the report highlights the desire to strengthen the internal energy market to allow for a freer flow of electricity.
to this end, regional cooperation and coordination on energy policies should be strengthened, and cross-border exchanges encouraged.
‒ the report has a very centrist tone: it is a caress of the hair of the states on issues regulated by the treaties (energy mix), it is based on an evolutionary approach to gnaw at the competences of the states and it is based on a so-called energy market, which is, despite what the rapporteur says, a natural monopoly.
as usual, ecology (in this case renewable energies) is a pretext for strengthening european federalism and for destroying national enterprises, in the name of the fluidity required by intermittent energies.
‒ i voted in favour of this report which encourages the strengthening of the internal energy market, in particular by allowing the free movement of electricity, in conjunction with cross-border competition which will stimulate appropriate investments for the sector.
regional cooperation and coordination on energy policies are needed.
the energy union is a good example of the usefulness of cooperation between states in a sector where the national perspective alone is not sufficient to meet the expectations and needs of citizens.
‒ i voted in favour of this report, the main objective of which is to make the energy market more flexible, particularly the electricity sector.
in this sense, the regulatory framework needs to be amended to allow for the improvement of the share of renewable energy and to fill existing gaps in regulation at cross-border level.
new approaches are needed to overcome bottlenecks and achieve a smart distribution network that allows for the proper integration of the various energy market players.
i supported this report because it recalls the importance of a more flexible energy market, targeting renewable energy and better integrated within the union.
‒ the report has a very centrist tone: it is a caress of the hair of the states on issues regulated by the treaties (energy mix), it is based on an evolutionary approach to gnaw at the competences of the states and it is based on a so-called energy market, which is, despite what the rapporteur says, a natural monopoly.
as usual, ecology (in this case renewable energies) is a pretext for strengthening european federalism and for destroying national enterprises, in the name of the fluidity required by intermittent energies.
‒ this report aims to make the eu the world's leading producer of energy from renewable sources.
if it were really a question of allowing the development of renewable energies and ending dependence on both nuclear and fossil fuels, i would be totally in favour.
in reality, the eu spends a lot of money on nuclear energy and very little on renewable energy, including research.
it is developing free trade agreements all over the world which lead to aberrations in export policy, particularly with regard to the carbon footprint, supposedly to break prices, but which above all break the rights of workers and workers themselves, and i am not talking about the multitude of armed conflicts to ensure control of fossil fuels.
this text does not create any illusions and when it claims that the internal energy market will better protect consumers by fighting against price regulation and subsidies, my indignation knows no bounds, as if energy poverty linked to the growing increase in poverty were not a growing scourge in europe.
heating and cooling account for about half of the eu's final energy demand.
this is why it is so important to reduce demand and make the sector more efficient, in order to reduce our dependence on energy imports, reduce emissions and lower costs for consumers, especially those at risk of energy poverty.
‒ despite the good measures proposed, france does not need the eu's recommendations to define its energy policy, in this case in the field of heating and cooling.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it sets out a european union strategy for heating and cooling, setting out proposals to reduce energy use in buildings.
i believe that renovating buildings is one of the simplest ways to use energy more efficiently and to achieve significant reductions in co2 emissions.
however, in addition to the fact that the concept remains vague (given the different legislation on heritage protection, with only 44 000 buildings protected in france against more than 1 000 000 in germany), paragraph 23 for example asks the local authorities to deal with the specific problems of rural buildings, which are generally older, less energy-efficient and less beneficial to health and provide less thermal comfort.
this text therefore risks accelerating the disfigurement and even the outright destruction of our heritage in the name of energy efficiency.
while energy efficiency is a worthy goal, the text urges local authorities to take action on rural buildings, which are considered to be older, less energy-efficient and less beneficial for health.
it should also be noted that despite the precaution included in the energy transition act for the protection of the old building in insulation operations, the implementing decree was quick to mitigate this assurance as much as possible.
‒ this text calls on member states and local authorities to save energy for heating and cooling.
energy saving is here considered as the first clean fuel.
‒ this report aims to increase energy efficiency and encourages the use of renewable energy for heating and cooling with a target of 100% by 2050. to achieve this, the report proposes to rely on geothermal energy, the production of biomethane, the priority use of local raw materials or the recovery of industrial heat.
although it is necessary in the member states to tackle energy waste in order to reduce our energy bill, there is still the question of financing the infrastructure to achieve this, such as thermal insulation and reversible heat pumps.
the report also recommends that energy saving studies be carried out in historic buildings to improve their energy performance.
‒ this own-initiative report is about the european commission's proposal to launch its first strategy to tackle massive energy consumption, which is considered one of the priorities of the energy union.
the parliament's report underlines the importance of urban energy networks and calls on member states to reduce the use of boilers.
considering that more efficient use of energy must help the union to achieve the objectives of cop21 and help european citizens to reduce their energy bills, i voted in favour of this report.
this report on the european union's heating and cooling strategy sets out the european parliament's recommendations to address the massive energy consumption in this sector.
with almost 50% of final energy demand in the european union used for heating and cooling, guidelines are needed to improve energy efficiency, mainly in buildings.
i believe that there is a particular need to encourage research and innovation in this area in order to enable not only better insulation, which will generate energy savings, but also to develop the use of renewable energy.
‒ this text extends the pieper report on energy efficiency adopted in brussels in june.
the stated objective is to achieve 100% renewable energy.
despite this seemingly laudable objective, there are fears that a form of energy austerity is being imposed on the peoples of europe.
in addition, this text puts our heritage at serious risk by advocating an improvement in their energy performance at the expense of preserving their heritage value.
‒ 40% of the eu's energy consumption is used for heating and cooling buildings.
although i am convinced that this is an important source of energy savings and probably of savings in the short and long term, i voted against this report.
this obligation already exists in french law, via a highly controversial decree implementing the law on energy transition.
this sector accounts for almost half of europe's energy consumption!
it is therefore essential to take targeted measures for this sector and strongly encourage energy efficiency improvements through better heating and cooling systems.
in particular, under the energy efficiency directive, member states are required to implement national renovation plans for buildings without delay.
let's not waste time!
‒ this text extends the pieper report on energy efficiency adopted in brussels in june.
by encouraging the development of renewable energy, with a 100% target for heating and cooling by 2050, it is above all energy efficiency that it advocates, i.e.
energy savings considered as the 'first fuel' (recital a).
to this end, in addition to encouraging geothermal energy, the production of biomethane (explicitly in paragraphs 52 and 100) and more generally the priority use of local raw materials (93), but also to emphasise the recovery of industrial heat, the report recommends above all appropriate architectural solutions.
these recommendations are mixed with the very demagogic aspect of 'fighting energy poverty'.
the text calls for a more targeted strategy by encouraging local energy initiatives.
my vote was encouraged by the local approach to the text, with its emphasis on energy efficiency and the importance of research and innovation on european territory.
‒ i voted in favour of the gierek report on a european union strategy for heating and cooling, which calls for a more targeted strategy for this sector, which accounts for 50% of the union's energy consumption, with renewable energy accounting for only 18% of this consumption, compared with 75% for fossil fuels.
this is one of the priorities of the energy union.
‒ i voted against this report because france does not need the eu's recommendations to define its energy policy.
despite some good measures proposed, france does not need the eu's recommendations to define its energy policy, in this case in the field of heating and cooling.
‒ in encouraging the development of renewable energy sources, the report recommends energy efficiency as the main priority.
in fact, these incessant calls for energy efficiency can be seen as a form of energy austerity.
in general, despite some good measures proposed, france does not need eu recommendations to define its energy policy, in this case for heating and cooling.
the text extends the pieper report on energy efficiency adopted in brussels in june.
the stated objective is to achieve 100% renewable energy.
despite this seemingly laudable objective, there are fears that a form of energy austerity is being imposed on the peoples of europe.
in addition, this text puts our heritage at serious risk by advocating an improvement in their energy performance at the expense of preserving their heritage value.
‒ gas remains the main source of energy for heating and cooling homes, public and industrial buildings.
while the report is concerned with promoting renewable energy, it first points out that 75% of the existing building stock is energy inefficient.
it encourages the development and research (without reference to the private sector) of alternative methods of its own, such as geothermal energy.
but, despite an interesting analysis which should logically allow for general and effective strategic planning, it is still logical to have a new market for energy-efficient products and services, or to support the union's emission quota system.
‒ in encouraging the development of renewable energy sources, the report recommends energy efficiency as the main priority.
in fact, these incessant calls for energy efficiency can be seen as a form of energy austerity.
in general, despite some good measures proposed, france does not need eu recommendations to define its energy policy, in this case for heating and cooling.
‒ this text extends the pieper report on energy efficiency adopted in brussels in june.
it encourages the development of renewable energy, with a target of 100% for heating and cooling by 2050. it is feared that this text may serve certain interests of the btp to the detriment of our heritage.
energy efficiency must not be the eternal alibi of the btp lobbyists to destroy our living environment, especially the old, rural and historic building, too often neglected in favour of the turnover of the big building brands.
‒ this text on the eu's heating and cooling strategy is a follow-up to the pieper report on energy efficiency adopted in brussels in june.
it encourages the development of renewable energies to achieve energy savings (geothermal energy, biomethane, priority use of local raw materials, etc.).
this sector, which accounts for half of europe's energy consumption, needs special attention.
‒ in the context of the energy union, the european commission has launched a strategy to combat massive energy consumption.
research and innovation must be used to renew energy networks and the modernisation of heating and cooling systems must be a priority.
‒ i voted in favour of this report which calls for a more targeted strategy for heating and cooling, a sector which accounts for almost half of europe's energy consumption.
the report highlights the need for specific measures for heating and cooling in the revision of the energy efficiency, renewable energy and energy performance of buildings directives.
long-term strategies for this sector need to be defined and implemented, with particular attention to renewable energy.
an attractive financing system must promote new technologies for heating european citizens using renewable energy sources.
‒ this text encourages the development of renewable energy, with a target of 100% for heating and cooling by 2050. however, in addition to the fact that these incessant calls for energy efficiency can be considered as a form of energy austerity which is not likely to allow the so often announced recovery, it is feared that this text serves certain interests of the btp to the detriment of our heritage... not to mention the eternal problems related to the financing of certain standardization work, especially for individuals, even if the text speaks of various aids.
in france, the law on energy transition had taken into account in its article 14 the need to protect the old building from external insulation operations.
this report does not address the roots of the competitiveness, financing or cash flow difficulties faced by smes, namely: unfair international competition exacerbated by social, environmental, fiscal and monetary dumping by emerging countries and some member states; the single currency which deprives states of the monetary lever to reduce competitiveness gaps with their trading partners; the prohibition in the european treaties of economic patriotism, in particular by giving priority to resident enterprises in the award of public contracts; the tightening of credit conditions brought about by the basel iii agreements.
parliament also believes that 'smes are the main drivers of long-term european economic growth and sustainable job creation opportunities in the 28 member states'.
the text thus fails to mention the problem of unfair competition, the result of social, environmental, fiscal and monetary dumping by european companies.
i will mention the unfair international competition exacerbated by social, environmental, fiscal and monetary dumping by emerging countries and some member states; the non-optimality of the euro area, which does not allow exogenous asymmetric shocks to be contained; the single currency, which deprives member states of the monetary leverage to reduce the competitiveness gaps with their trading partners; the european union has also adopted a number of measures to combat discrimination against women in the labour market, including the prohibition in the european treaties of economic patriotism, in particular by giving priority to resident enterprises in the award of public contracts.
this report does not address the root causes of the difficulties faced by smes:- unfair competition through social, environmental, fiscal and monetary dumping by certain emerging countries or member states; - a single currency which deprives member states of the monetary lever to reduce the competitiveness gap with their trading partners; - the prohibition in the european treaties of economic patriotism (priority for national enterprises in the award of public contracts); - the tightening of credit conditions brought about by the basel iii agreements.
the aim of creating these macro-regions is to develop cross-border strategic approaches in regions that share the same problems, in this case depopulation, diversification of economic activity, spatial planning and environmental protection in the context of eusalp.
we share most of the priorities advocated by eusalp, such as preserving the environment, modernising water infrastructure, creating competitiveness clusters, sources of innovation that generate sustainable jobs, developing new tourist offers to limit the seasonal aspect of alpine tourism, developing rail transport, especially for freight, to reduce congestion in cities.
the priorities set by the union for the alpine region (eusalp) are certainly also my own: preserving the environment, modernising water infrastructure, developing rail transport, and creating competitiveness clusters, sources of innovation and sustainable jobs.
we certainly share most of the priorities advocated by eusalp, such as environmental protection, the modernisation of water infrastructure, the development of new tourist offers to limit the seasonal aspect of alpine tourism, and the development of rail transport, particularly for freight, to reduce congestion in cities.
finally, it is necessary to develop genuine structures for the preservation of the environment and biodiversity specific to the region.
with this new strategy, it will bring together alpine citizens to tackle several challenges, including transport interconnections and digital coverage, innovation and adaptation to climate change.
i was particularly involved in this issue in the agriculture and environment committees, advocating the need to strengthen transnational cooperation on hydropower and the management of predatory species on livestock farms.
this report on the european union strategy for the alpine region makes proposals and recommendations in line with the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth to address the specificities and challenges of these regions.
i voted in favour of this text, which rightly emphasises the need to improve transport networks and connectivity in the alpine regions in order to promote tourism and growth, while respecting environmental imperatives in regions with rich biodiversity.
we support most of the priorities advocated by eusalp, such as: preserving the environment, modernising water infrastructure, creating competitiveness clusters, sources of innovation that generate sustainable jobs, developing new tourist offers to limit the seasonal aspect of alpine tourism, developing rail transport, especially for freight, to reduce congestion in cities.
i welcome the adoption of this report which makes proposals in this respect and emphasises the need to improve connectivity but also to protect the environment (especially glaciers) in the alpine region.
it emphasises the need to improve transport and energy connectivity and protect biodiversity in the alpine region.
i share most of the priorities advocated by eusalp, such as preserving the environment, modernising water infrastructure, creating competitiveness clusters, developing new tourist offers to limit the seasonal aspect of alpine tourism, and developing rail transport.
despite several proposals which we support (the preservation of the environment, the modernisation of water infrastructure, the creation of competitiveness clusters), this text is in favour of the macro-regional strategy which will deprive the member states of their decision-making powers.
i have in particular supported all the measures aimed at protecting the biodiversity which is fundamental in this european region.
there is a need to improve transport and energy connectivity and to protect biodiversity in the alpine region.
these macro-regions aim to develop cross-border strategic approaches in regions that share the same problems, in this case depopulation, diversification of economic activity, spatial planning and environmental protection.
‒ located in the heart of europe, with its 48 regions in 7 different states, its 80 million inhabitants, its outstanding biodiversity and water reserves, the alpine region is a key challenge for the european union.
this report takes account of this particular reality and the precautions it requires, particularly in terms of environmental protection in the face of climate change and increasing cross-border trade.
the eutf should give priority to supporting access to education and employment, good governance and environmental projects.
in practical terms, it is a question of organising society and the world of work so that women can both participate in the labour market on an equal footing with men and that this same working environment allows them the freedom to procreate without hindrance.
in practical terms, it is a question of organising society and the world of work so that women can both participate in the labour market on an equal footing with men and that this same working environment allows them the freedom to procreate without hindrance.
but readmission, obviously, is important to move towards a better system for human mobility, to make it sustainable, providing better channels for legal migration, and discouraging or preventing dangerous travels through the desert or at sea.
i believe that no matter if you come from the right or the left, from portugal or finland, or from the far east or the far west of the european union, we all share an interest to make migration managed, properly managed and sustainable, and to invest in our neighbours’ development, and when i say neighbours i include the whole continent of africa which is our neighbour.
fifty million, according to unicef, have fled war, internal conflict, poverty, climate change and, more broadly, environmental disasters, as the human hand is often behind a number of natural disasters.
the report aims to improve and harmonise safety standards and regulations on safety and environmental requirements for vessels sailing in european waters, but very similar regulations already exist in france.
‒ this report aims to improve and harmonise the safety level and the regulation of safety and environmental requirements for vessels sailing on european waters.
‒ i abstained on this report, which aims to harmonise safety and environmental regulations for vessels sailing on european waters.
‒ this recommendation on technical requirements for inland waterway vessels aims to improve and harmonise the safety level and the regulation of safety and environmental requirements for vessels sailing on european waters.
‒ this report aims to improve and harmonise the safety level and the regulation of safety and environmental requirements for vessels sailing on european waters.
‒ this report aims to improve and harmonise the safety level and the regulation of safety and environmental requirements for vessels sailing on european waters.
the purpose of this text is to improve and harmonise the safety level and the regulations on safety and environmental requirements for vessels sailing on european waters.
‒ this report aims to improve and harmonise the safety level and safety and environmental regulations for vessels sailing on european waters.
‒ this report aims to improve and harmonise the safety level and safety and environmental regulations for vessels sailing on european waters.
‒ this report aims to improve and harmonise the safety level and the regulation of safety and environmental requirements for vessels sailing on european waters.
‒ this report aims to improve and harmonise the safety level and the regulation of safety and environmental requirements for vessels sailing on european waters.
‒ this is a report to improve and harmonise the safety level and the regulation of safety and environmental requirements for vessels sailing on european waters.
the agreement includes some progress, such as the introduction of a chapter on sustainable development, although it is not binding.
the basic problem is the glaring lack of competitiveness of our companies and also the lack of will on the part of some member states to create the right environment.
in reality, firms need to constantly restructure themselves to adapt to change, but in order to develop, they must benefit from a favourable fiscal and social environment that is not paralysed by either.
before we became mps, a number of us, including the presidents of the major public banks, were calling for a real reinvestment plan using the monetary facilities of the central bank, 1 trillion invested in sustainable development and the green economy.
the announcement of the closure of the belfort plant is the logical follow-up to alstom's dismantling with the sale in 2014 of its energy branch to the american general electrics.
how can alstom have no future when passenger and freight transport needs to be developed, especially with the locomotives and trains of tomorrow which will be part of the environmental transition?
in 2007, during the grenelle for the environment in france, we agreed to increase rail freight from 14 to 25%.
a few years ago, mrs royal, the environment minister, killed the eco-tax, the €1 billion a year that also helped finance sustainable development infrastructure, tramway infrastructure.
we are basically in a situation today where what is at stake is a european industrial policy, a major investment plan for the sustainable city with trams, a major plan for rail freight which is an efficient and ecological transport, and then, to hand over responsibility to the states.
when alstom was dismantled, following the sale of its energy division in 2014 to the american general electric, the pro-european politicians of umps promised great things for the future.
finally, have they put in place the training needed to cope with the digital and energy revolutions that will profoundly change the labour market and jobs?
this is dramatic for two reasons, firstly, given the scale of the current crisis, since it is poverty and exclusion that are weighing on growth and the future of social protection, which is obviously an absolute problem for the sustainability of social protection systems, but especially at the very moment when we are entering a new era, that of digital technology, robotics and the loss of human jobs.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
‒ i would like to pay tribute to our socialist and democratic group which has fought to:- reduce legal costs and red tape;- reduce the fragmentation of practices between member states with a view to further integration of capital markets in the eu;- unlock liquidity for institutional investors who are currently facing a low interest rate environment;- harmonise investor protection rules in different pieces of legislation;- avoid a race to the bottom between member states.
it is necessary to establish a climate of confidence which will contribute to investment in securities.
the right answer is not to continue to welcome migrants when our own capacity to do so is out of date, but to cooperate more actively with third countries, to better understand our geostrategic environment and to have a more targeted development aid policy.
horizon 2020 sets five objectives under three themes: sustainable, smart and inclusive growth.
‒ the purpose of this proposal is to confirm the validity of the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states adopted in 2015. these guidelines seek, in the good neoliberal logic, to 'strengthen growth through structural reforms' and 'make public finances more sustainable'.
the europe 2020 agenda sets five objectives, divided into three themes: smart growth, sustainable growth and inclusive growth.
i voted in favour of this text because i consider biodiversity to be essential.
for the first time, the union will be a key player in this major event to combat the decline of global biodiversity.
the protection of biodiversity is a key issue, and europe needs to be more effective in tackling the trafficking and illegal trade in poaching products (elephant ivory, for example), of which it is a major hub.
the text supports many proposals by states to protect new species increasingly threatened by human activity and global warming or to ban the trade of certain others, such as elephants, for example, whose ivory trade supports many paramilitary groups.
‒ i voted in favour of this text, which sets out parliament's indications on the key objectives of the next convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora, to be held in johannesburg at the end of september 2016. the text recalls that it is essential for biodiversity to protect endangered species, in particular by combating poaching and illegal trade in these species, of which europe is a hub.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of the environment.
for the s&d group, the challenge was to defend and ensure the universal service in a sustainable way.
in the postal services, we still have the opportunity not to repeat the mistakes of the past, with the forced liberalization of energy or rail transport.
parliament also believes that 'smes are the main drivers of long-term european economic growth and sustainable job creation opportunities in the 28 member states'.
as such, it is essential to promote fair competition, access to finance, an appropriate regulatory environment and good social dialogue in order to enable smes to create sustainable and quality jobs.
parliament also believes that 'smes are the main drivers of long-term european economic growth and sustainable job creation opportunities in the 28 member states'.
i would argue that we must work to create the conditions for an environment conducive to the development of smes in order to tackle unemployment in our member states.
it stresses the importance of a stable and high-quality regulatory environment, improved regulation and enforcement, as small local businesses are particularly disadvantaged by the problem of high fixed costs.
it is therefore essential that all necessary measures be taken to ensure a healthy environment for them to thrive.
the text stresses the importance of a stable and high-quality regulatory environment, which we welcome.
it is therefore essential that the economic regulatory environment is favourable to smes by ensuring a level playing field with large enterprises, by further improving vocational education and training, and by reducing the administrative and bureaucratic burden on smes.
the european parliament's position is clear: priority must be given to strengthening an environment conducive to the development of smes in europe.
the report stresses the importance of a stable and high-quality regulatory environment, and of improving the quality of regulation and its enforcement, as the appropriate way to reduce the burden on smes, including labour costs.
this is a key precondition for job sustainability and the quality job creation potential of smes.
we must go beyond this thinking and impose ecological and social protectionism at the frontiers.
i am convinced that we must use and improve the cotonou acquis to meet the new global challenges, such as migration and climate change.
i believe it is important to place our post-2020 partnership in the context of the new sustainable development goals and to insist that human rights and good governance are the cornerstones of our partnership with the acp countries.
first, in indonesia, a large number of trees are being cut down to make way for plantations for paper or palm oil, thus destroying biodiversity.
this is a historic moment for the planet: the international community will be able to lead the fight of the century against climate change.
a year ago, the european parliament called for legally binding climate targets, accompanied by robust financial tools.
it is now up to all of us to make it the starting point of a new european ambition: this requires a european budget that is up to the task, with its own resources, to achieve the ecological and economic transition and to make europe's commitments a reality.
i opposed it with my colleagues from the national front, because the major consequence of it would be to accelerate the deindustrialisation of europe, which would be reduced to a shipping area for products manufactured under harsh environmental and social conditions.
such an agreement is not credible given the high pollution levels of the united states and china compared to those of european countries.
in the coming months, our challenge will be to update the european climate law.
on the main points, i remain opposed to the paris agreement's tartuferie which will serve above all to accelerate the deindustrialisation of europe and to make it a mere cargo area for manufactured goods produced outside the old continent under overwhelming social and environmental conditions.
indeed, it seems to me to be completely counterproductive to pursue the committed strategy of 'decarbonising the eu economy' until china (which plans to increase its pollution) and especially the united states have reached european levels of pollution in tonnes of co2/capita equivalent.
while the environmental objectives are laudable, the constraints europe chooses to impose on its industries are of little weight compared with the economic strategies of china, which, although it has ratified the agreement, has already planned to increase its pollution.
the same is true for the united states, which has sent a strong political signal by ratifying the agreement, but has still not reached european levels of pollution in terms of tonnes of co2 equivalent per capita.
‒ this report proposes that the european parliament give the council its backing for the ratification of the paris agreements resulting from cop 21. it is expected to enter into force on the 30th day after at least 55 parties to the convention, representing at least 55% of global greenhouse gas emissions, have deposited their instruments of ratification with the united nations.
indeed, it is counterproductive to commit to decarbonising our economies until china and the us have reached european levels of pollution in tonnes of co2 equivalent per capita.
these states use environmental dumping as a tool to preserve their industries and, above all, their jobs.
the paris agreement adopted under the un framework convention on climate change (cop 21) is a historic agreement.
it now has 177 signatories, a record for global climate agreements.
‒ the conclusion of the paris cop agreement in december 2015 is a historic act symbolizing the commitment of all countries of the world to reduce global warming caused by human activities.
for the cop21 paris agreement to enter into force, 55 parties to the unfccc, representing an estimated total of at least 55% of global greenhouse gas emissions, had to ratify it.
because the fight against climate change is a fight we must fight together, i voted in favour of this resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the paris agreement adopted under the united nations framework convention on climate change.
‒ the european parliament has ratified the paris agreement, which is a major step forward in the fight against climate change, and i welcome it.
i hope that the states will also commit themselves swiftly to comprehensive and coordinated action for the environment.
the agreement includes a number of concrete measures, such as the development of clean energy through the phase-out of fossil fuels, global balance sheets every 5 years from 2023 and the upward revision of ambitions over time, a legislative framework that promotes transparency and accountability and appropriate measures for financing the fight against global warming.
‒ i welcome the adoption of this text, which will make concrete progress in the fight against climate change.
it highlights important points: the participation of all in the collective effort to reduce greenhouse gases, the need to rely on aggressive diplomacy and innovative financial instruments.
as co-chair of the intergroup on public services, i had, before this report was drawn up, alerted the envi committee, which was responsible for the substance of the matter, to the need to articulate the challenges of combating global warming and the values of public service, so that the energy transition does not come at the expense of the poorest and most isolated.
the legally binding agreement commits 195 states to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions to limit global warming to 2 degrees celsius above pre-industrial levels.
with the parliament's vote, the european union joins the countries that have already ratified the agreement, such as the united states, india and china, thus reaching the threshold of 55 states parties representing at least 55% of global emissions necessary for its entry into force.
the next major climate conference, to be held in marrakech in early november, should be an opportunity to continue along this path and consolidate the gains of the paris agreement.
we can already be proud of the progress made, but we must remain vigilant and demanding about the reality of what will be done to actually reduce global warming.
‒ i voted against ratifying the paris climate agreement.
there is no legal obligation for states to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions, no sanctions or financial incentives.
but in the end, the disastrous carbon footprint of its imports (production methods, long-distance transport) annihilates its efforts as a good student.
climate diplomacy by the member states and the european union must continue to be intensified so that it becomes a natural part of our relations with other countries.
we know the effects of climate change on migration, food security, access to resources, water and energy, the spread of disease and social and economic instability.
it is therefore essential that the monitoring of climate change involves all actors, public and private.
i gave my full support to the historic agreement on climate change reached in paris last year.
the time has now come for countries that have ratified the agreement to step up their commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, in order to keep average global warming well below 2 degrees celsius.
to achieve these goals, i support the creation of innovative financing to combat climate change, for example by setting a floor price for a tonne of carbon or reforming the european carbon trading system.
the establishment of a genuine circular economy and the boosting of renewable energy are also interesting ways of doing things.
efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from transport and agriculture also need to be stepped up.
finally, the issue of climate refugees deserves our full attention.
these will continue the deindustrialisation of europe and undermine social and environmental structures already well established in our countries.
the strategy to 'decarbonise' our economy only weakens us further in the face of much larger and more harmful countries like china and the us, which have been careful to keep up with european pollution levels.
through a unique joint ratification process, we formally endorsed and signed the paris agreement, which aims to keep global warming below 2°c and to continue efforts to limit temperature rise to 1.5°c.
i welcome this vote which makes the european union a major player in the fight against global warming.
‒ i voted in favour of the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the paris agreement because it is a major agreement for the global issue of global warming.
it is important that the european union is a leader on environmental issues.
‒ i abstained because, while the paris agreement is well-intentioned, it will serve above all to accelerate the deindustrialisation of europe and to turn it into a dumping ground for products manufactured in third countries under overwhelming social and environmental conditions.
it is completely counterproductive to pursue the committed strategy of 'decarbonising the eu economy' until china (which plans to increase its pollution) and especially the us have reached european levels of pollution in tonnes of co2/capita equivalent.
the ratification by the european union will allow the two un-set thresholds (55 countries and 55% of co2 emissions) to be met within one month of the agreement's entry into force.
this positive vote is a concrete commitment by the european union and its member states to voluntary and realistic targets in the fight against climate change at global level: a strong gesture for the future of the planet and that of our children!
‒ the paris agreement to limit global warming sets the objective of limiting global warming to below 2 degrees.
beyond the un intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) believes that the consequences of global warming will be out of control.
to meet this threshold, each signatory country commits to reducing its carbon emissions according to its level of responsibility and wealth.
finally, to pay their 'climate debt', the rich northern countries pledge to mobilise $100 billion a year in aid for adaptation to the consequences of global warming.
to enter into force, the agreement would require the signature of 55 countries representing 55% of global emissions.
without the european union, 62 countries representing 51.89% of emissions had already signed the agreement, including the united states, china and india.
‒ i abstained on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the paris agreement adopted under the united nations framework convention on climate change.
the main purpose of this text will be to accelerate the deindustrialisation of europe and to turn it into a dumping ground for products manufactured under harsh social and environmental conditions.
it is completely counterproductive to pursue the committed strategy of 'decarbonising the eu economy' until china (which plans to increase its pollution) and especially the us have reached european levels of pollution in tonnes of co2/capita equivalent.
they will, above all, accelerate the deindustrialisation of europe, turning it into a gigantic market for manufactured goods produced in overwhelming socio-environmental conditions.
china (which plans to increase its pollution) and the united states are far from reaching european levels of pollution in tonnes of co2 equivalent per capita.
‒ following the agreement reached on 30 september by the environment ministers of the 28 member states, the european parliament today delivered its opinion on the paris climate agreement.
to enter into force, the agreement had to be ratified by at least 55 states representing more than 55% of global greenhouse gas emissions.
today, the 28 member states of the european union join the 62 countries that have already ratified the agreement and account for 52% of global greenhouse gas emissions.
with the ratification of the paris agreement by the european union, it will enter into force at the 22nd un climate conference in marrakech from 7 to 18 november.
the agreement calls for the deindustrialisation of europe and risks turning our continent into a dumping ground for manufactured goods produced under scandalous social and environmental conditions, something we oppose.
‒ cop 21, despite its inevitable limitations, is an undeniable success of multilateral climate diplomacy.
rapid ratification is a key factor in its successful implementation, and 62 states representing 52% of global greenhouse gas emissions have already ratified the agreement.
‒ the eu is a full party to the cop 21 paris agreement on climate change in addition to its 28 member countries.
this allows the eu to ratify the agreement before its scheduled entry into force, 30 days after it has been ratified by at least 55 countries representing 55% of emissions.
on the main issues, we remain opposed to the paris agreement, which will serve above all to accelerate the deindustrialisation of europe and to turn it into a freight zone for products manufactured under overwhelming social and environmental conditions.
it is completely counterproductive to pursue the committed strategy of 'decarbonising the eu economy' until china and especially the us have reached european levels of pollution in tonnes of co2/capita equivalent.
‒ the report aims to give the council the green light to ratify the paris agreement, which will enter into force when at least 55 countries representing 55% of global gas emissions have ratified it.
the international community's mobilization in the fight against global warming is necessary and must not stop.
i therefore welcome the adoption of this agreement, which provides for keeping global warming well below 2°c compared to pre-industrial levels and for continuing efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5°c.
the commission will also be supporting the implementation of the eu's climate change strategy, including the implementation of the eu's climate change strategy, the implementation of the eu's climate change strategy and the implementation of the eu's climate change strategy.
the vote will allow the regulation to enter into force at the 22nd united nations climate conference, which will be held in marrakesh from 7 to 18 november.
to enter into the agreement, it had to be ratified by at least 55 states representing more than 55% of global greenhouse gas emissions.
with 63 countries accounting for 64% of global greenhouse gas emissions, the tally is good.
‒ protecting the environment is a priority for all.
the european union is thus actually contributing to the pollution of the planet by encouraging the industry of polluting third countries and the long-distance transport of ever greater quantities of goods.
customs barriers to protect the environment and local producers would be much more effective than this type of agreement.
‒ i voted in favour of the european union ratifying the paris climate agreement signed in december 2015. this agreement, adopted under the united nations framework convention on climate change, is a universal and binding text.
if the states party to the agreement respect it, its implementation will increase the necessary fight against global warming.
i voted for the eu to ratify the paris agreement, which is the culmination of a long battle for binding targets to fight, together at global level, the greatest challenge of the 21st century, global warming.
the agreement marks a historic turning point in the global fight against climate change.
this act demonstrates europe's leading role in the fight against climate change and its unwavering commitment to the clean energy transition.
‒ i voted in favour of this text, which constitutes the european parliament's ratification of the paris agreement concluded at the end of cop21 in december 2015. the agreement is the first universal and legally binding global climate agreement in terms of environmental protection and reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
the european union must continue to be a central international actor and a leader in the fight against climate change.
it sets binding standards to stop the ravages of climate change, as illustrated by the increase in the number of people displaced by climate change.
by limiting the rise in temperature to less than 1.5°c and the emission of greenhouse gases, this agreement commits the international community to the future, even if the means of this transition to a new model of development that is more sustainable and decarbonised still have to be implemented in order to combat climate warming effectively.
this should not be the latest good intention, but a new stage in an ambitious european strategy which requires a substantial european budget with its own resources to achieve the ecological and economic transition and to make europe's commitments a reality.
finally, we would rather support the citizens of a member state that has suffered a natural disaster than waste the eu budget in helping illegal migrants, through the other european funds for greece!
the commission is proposing to provide 1.6 million in aid through the 'solidarity fund' set up for states and their regions affected by natural disasters, which are increasing with the climate change caused by our production and consumption patterns.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
it is therefore essential to combat unfair international competition exacerbated by social, environmental and monetary dumping by emerging countries, in particular by introducing a moratorium on all tariff concessions granted under free trade agreements.
this gap is clearly reflected in two areas, which are neglected in most of the trade agreements to which the european union is party: the environment and human rights.
this mechanism increases the production of monocultures, which cause damage by pollution and a mutilation of all traditional cultivation methods in these regions.
the cotonou agreement, which governs relations between the european union (eu) and the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) group of states, expires at the end of 2020. the situation in both the european union and the acp countries has changed over the past 20 years, due to internal developments but also to external challenges such as climate change.
it is therefore important, as we approach 2020, that the framework for eu-acp relations focuses on environmental protection, migration management and the fight against inequalities within and between countries.
to do this, we need to identify priority areas for action, such as africa's energy independence, sustainable management of natural resources or diversification and strengthening of its economic fabric.
‒ i supported this report because i believe that it is essential to establish a new framework for cooperation and dialogue between the eu and the acp countries, which takes account of the political and social changes that have taken place in recent years and which allows the achievement of the objectives of sustainable development and the fight against poverty.
in order to adapt the partnership to new international challenges, the report calls for the preservation of the previous achievements of the cotonou agreement beyond 2020. the report also stresses the urgent need to incorporate the outcomes of the major international conferences of 2015: new sustainable development goals, new development financing framework, paris climate agreement/cop21.
the report also recalls that the cotonou partnership is primarily intended to promote common values (democracy, the rule of law) and shared objectives (the un sustainable development goals, cop 21), without obscuring the indispensable political dialogue symbolised by the joint parliamentary assembly, particularly on human rights.
but i firmly believe that economic growth is the only way to achieve sustainable development.
it is essential that the 2030 agenda for sustainable development, the fight against poverty and eventually its eradication, and human rights, are placed at the centre of the future agreement.
this relief is urgent; it would make the primary budget surplus target of 3,5% of gdp in 2018 realistic and, above all, ensure the country's sustainable recovery.
she is particularly concerned about herself - she has waited two years for a very small pension - and her children - they are unable to enter the workforce in a sustainable way.
there's also connie hedegaard, the former climate commissioner, recently hired by volkswagen.
first, we need to find sustainable solutions.
of course, this proposal is only a drop in the bucket compared to the challenges europe must face in helping young people: unemployment, loss of a place to call home, the world's ecological, digital and demographic upheavals.
the new crops supported will have to cope with the inevitable climate change, while respecting biodiversity and the environment.
‒ i voted in favour of this text because it is important that global, national and local actors take genuine, coordinated and accelerated action to combat malnutrition in order to achieve the 2030 agenda for sustainable development and the second sustainable development goal (sdg) of eliminating hunger.
the new crops supported will have to cope with the inevitable climate change, while respecting biodiversity and the environment.
given the economic power of the european union and its member states, we have a responsibility to eradicate hunger in the world, to solve nutritional and food problems and to promote sustainable agriculture.
our participation in this global work is all the more necessary as we face the growing food needs of a rapidly expanding world population and ever more pressing threats to the environment.
the new crops supported will have to cope with the inevitable climate change, while respecting biodiversity and the environment.
the new supported crops will have to cope with climate change, while respecting biodiversity and the environment.
finally, the issue of food waste is addressed.
to remedy this, the text also proposes the promotion of 'family farms producing food crops for local consumption' and encourages 'agro-ecological practices'.
the issue of food waste is addressed (every year 88 million tonnes are wasted in the european union).
the issue of food waste is addressed (reminder: 88 million tonnes are wasted in the european union every year).
the development of new fuels, which are less harmful to the environment, is fundamental for the survival of future generations.
the issue of food waste is addressed.
in this context, the member states of the union must become aware of their responsibility for the emergence of long-term food security, in particular by promoting the development of sustainable agriculture and local production.
‒ next steps towards achieving the global objectives and the union's commitments on nutrition and food security in the world (2016/2705 ((rsp)) the achievement of the un sustainable development goals (sdgs), in particular the second one, which aims to eliminate hunger and malnutrition by 2030, should be a key challenge at both european and global level.
it is also necessary to impose a carbon adjustment at the borders.
the basic problem is the lack of competitiveness of our companies and the lack of will on the part of some managers to create an adequate social and fiscal environment!
sustainable solutions must be found to support the employees and subcontractors affected by these restructurings.
these closures are purely guided by financial logic and do not take into account the multiple challenges that we face with the ecological transition.
the text also proposes ambitious environmental and social measures, notably in the field of pollution abatement and sales to businesses, and the creation of a florange law at european level.
in addition to the specificities of each country, the european industry is under pressure from a triple dumping: social, fiscal and environmental.
finally, as we vote this week on the ratification of the paris agreement, it should also be remembered that if european industry is at a disadvantage vis-à-vis its asian competitors, it is also because it is trying to comply with environmental legislation that is absolutely crucial for the energy transition.
the 'carbon adjustment at borders' mechanism is therefore urgently needed.
in addition to its social and environmental constraints, europe is opening up its public procurement markets to subsidised foreign companies.
i believe that only sovereign and democratic states are capable of defining an effective industrial policy which respects the interests of their people and the environment.
european industry needs a stable social and fiscal environment that will be conducive to investment and thus to competitiveness.
we propose a 'carbon adjustment at the border' to combat unfair competition, particularly from countries with high carbon production facilities.
madam president, the fight against global warming is urgent.
62 countries, representing 51% of global greenhouse gas emissions, have already ratified the agreement signed in paris in 2015 at cop21.
it has agreed to reduce its harmful emissions by 40%, whereas the united states has only agreed to reduce them by 28% and china has agreed to consider reducing them only after 2030. i therefore denounce the irresponsibility of the union, which is going to accelerate the deindustrialization of europe by unilaterally imposing constraints which will not affect its main economic competitors.
firstly, the creation of innovative financing to combat climate change, for example by setting a minimum price for a tonne of carbon or reforming the european carbon trading system, but also the establishment of a genuine circular economy and the promotion of renewable energies or the abolition of subsidies to the fossil fuel sector which will eventually lead to the abandonment of fossil fuels and, finally, also the intensification of efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the transport and agriculture sectors.
finally, as claude turmes says, we must discuss our cooperation on renewable energy with africa and all that we have to do with africa.
‒ i voted in favour of this report promoting accounting standards that ensure financial stability, sustainable growth and long-term investment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
it calls on the union to make even greater efforts: more budget for green funds, more constraints on businesses (but by supporting economic development from the tip of the lips), more circular economy... and more migrants to welcome because of climate change!
‒ this resolution is part of the cop22 to be held in marrakech in november 2016. i am against this resolution because we disagree on many points: the immeasurable efforts of the member states of the union, climate migrants, the ways and sources of financing the fight against climate change, etc.
we support initiatives that can really make our planet more viable and sustainable, without putting a sword of damocles on our economies.
‒ the 22nd conference on climate change (cop 22) will be held in marrakech from 7 to 18 november 2016. in this resolution, the european parliament asks the council and the commission what steps they intend to take to ensure that cop 22 makes progress on the key elements of the paris agreement, to influence the review of national commitments in 2018 and to strengthen climate finance to reach the $100 billion target.
‒ this resolution aims to take stock of the state of play of the climate change negotiations.
the resolution welcomes the results of the paris climate agreement (cop 21), recalling that it is an ambitious, balanced, fair and legally binding agreement.
considering that the european union is the originator of the paris agreement and that it must contribute to global efforts to reduce global warming, i voted in favour of this resolution.
i supported the resolution on the implementation of the paris agreement and on the conference of the parties to the 2016 united nations framework convention on climate change (cop 22), to be held in marrakech from 7 to 18 november 2016. the paris agreement is a historic success in environmental protection.
the financing of the fight against climate change should therefore be an important issue to be addressed at cop 22.
in writing.
the fight against climate change is indeed everyone's business and each state must commit itself to it quickly.
by ratifying the paris climate agreement, the first ever universal and legally binding global climate agreement, the european union and its member states have sent a strong signal just weeks before the opening of cop22 in marrakech.
the eu must seize this opportunity to continue its leadership in the global fight against climate change.
this implies a more ambitious strategy, in the medium and long term, to reach the zero emission target by 2050. the union should further promote green finance and set stricter limits on emissions from the international civil aviation and maritime transport sectors.
the european union must also continue its efforts within itself and with partners in third countries on the creation of financial transaction taxes, part of whose resources could support the adaptation of developing countries to climate change.
the european union must apply appropriate and proportionate measures to ensure the competitiveness of its industry until a level playing field is achieved and to prevent carbon leakage where appropriate.
our european climate diplomacy must continue along these lines!
i do not want to support a contradictory project to de-industrialise us gradually by stepping up our efforts in favour of green funds or the circular economy, all in favour of imports that cause more polluting production and ever greater immigration linked to climate change.
this report was an opportunity to underline our commitment to the goals of the paris agreement and to working fully for the climate.
the negotiations to be held in november will deal with the details of the global balance sheet, the establishment of a transparency framework and the financing of the fight against climate change.
‒ i voted in favour of this text to underline the european parliament's commitment to climate change issues.
and also because it highlights the welcome of climate refugees.
‒ i supported this resolution which affirms our wish to continue efforts towards the 2016 un climate change conference (cop 22) in marrakech: financing the fight against climate change, establishing mechanisms to reduce the risk of carbon leakage, reducing non-co2 emissions, the need to include non-state actors in the discussions and to share efforts more effectively... a clear and responsible roadmap for the next climate negotiations!
it calls on the eu to make even greater efforts: more budget for green funds, more constraints on companies... it also refers to the reception of 'climate migrants'.
it calls on member states to do even more: increase budgets for green energy, place even more constraints on businesses, and finally welcome more migrants because of climate change!
‒ after cop 21 in paris, the next un framework convention on climate change will be held in marrakech in november.
the report calls for action beyond the paris agreement, as the sum of national contributions does not bring the 2°c target for limiting global warming any closer.
it proposes some concrete targets for reducing carbon emissions by 2030, such as phasing out fossil fuel subsidies.
he advocates the introduction of this system of trading emission allowances at the global level, while this 'carbon market' functions as a subsidy system for polluters.
in the end, the fight against global warming is just the 'lever for a greener growth'.
it calls on the eu to make even greater efforts: more budget for green funds, more constraints on companies... it also refers to the reception of 'climate migrants'.
it calls on the union to make more and more efforts: more budget for green funds, more constraints on companies (but by supporting economic development from the tip of the lips), more circular economy... and more migrants to welcome because of climate change!
‒ i voted in favour of this text on the implementation of the paris agreement and on the conference of the parties to the 2016 united nations framework convention on climate change (cop 22), to be held in marrakech.
the international community's mobilization in the fight against global warming is necessary and must not stop.
in this context, the european union must maintain its leading and driving role in limiting temperature rise and polluting emissions.
the paris agreement will enter into force at the 22nd un conference on climate change.
clearly, much remains to be done in the fight against climate change.
cop 22 will have to implement the paris agreement in practice, with the following priority: the creation of innovative financing to combat climate change, such as the adoption of a financial transaction tax, the setting of a floor price per tonne of carbon and the reform of the european emissions trading system (ets).
‒ ahead of the united nations conference of the parties on climate change (cop 22) in marrakech in november 2016, i voted in favour of this resolution, which recalls the need to implement the commitments of states made when the historic cop 21 agreement was signed in paris.
the european union will therefore need to continue to assume its international leadership role in the fight against global warming by adopting new emission targets for 2050.
in writing.
the european union will have to ensure that it maintains its leadership in the fight against climate change.
i supported this resolution because cop 22 must now implement all the measures adopted in the paris agreement to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
it also requires immediate commitment from all sectors of the economy to reduce greenhouse gases.
the question of financing the ecological transition is therefore at the heart of this resolution and i welcome the adoption of the amendments by the socialist and democratic group, in particular those aimed at financing the transition to a sustainable development model.
the resolution also reaffirms the need to respect human rights in the fight against climate change.
it calls for the eu to do more: more budget for green funds, more constraints on businesses (but by supporting economic development from the tip of the lips), more circular economy, and calls on eu countries to welcome more "climate" migrants.
the resolution also acknowledges that the sum of 'nationally determined contributions' at global level 'does not even come close to the objective' of limiting global warming to a maximum of 2°c, and that this limit, which is unattainable in the state, 'does not guarantee that serious impacts on the climate will be avoided'.
the text also makes the 'carbon market' the alpha and omega of the fight against climate change, whereas emissions trading systems have largely proven to be ineffective and dangerous.
and what about the vain demands made to 'developed countries, especially those in the union, to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions in a draconian manner, beyond current commitments', when we know that in practice they are doing exactly the opposite as we see in france with the government's persistence in maintaining the notre dame des landes project.
in view of the risks to public health and the environment, the union needs to harmonise its controls more.
the 2014 report highlights in particular that the environment, transport and the internal market for services are the areas of public policy where the most infringements are committed.
the 2014 report highlights in particular that the environment, transport and the internal market for services are the areas of public policy where infringements are still most numerous.
the environment is the most important issue.
france has been repeatedly in the red for its air pollution rate of fine particles for example.
i welcome the fact that it recalls the possibility of setting 'higher social and environmental standards in the member states than at union level'.
unfortunately, the areas of public policy where the most serious infringements occur are those related to the internal market, transport and the environment.
the report points out that the application of eu law is not sufficiently transparent and that the environment, transport and the internal market for services are the areas of public policy where infringements are still most numerous.
the most problematic areas were health, the environment, consumer protection and transport.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
gmos tolerating one or two herbicides that are about to be banned are of little interest and, moreover, are dangerous for biodiversity.
the issues raised are glufosinate, which is due to be banned in 2017 (ownership is therefore useless) and the destruction of biodiversity.
it first requested an analysis from the european food safety authority (efsa) to verify that the maize seed was not hazardous to human and animal health and the environment.
‒ i voted in favour of this objection because it is against the use of a gmo that is harmful to biodiversity.
the different properties of these gmos pose several problems: carcinogenic herbicides, insecticides leading to the destruction of biodiversity, etc.
the commission has fully complied with the procedure by requesting the european food safety authority to carry out a study on the safety of the plant for human and animal health and the environment.
the danger of many of them, both for the environment and for consumers, is well established.
gmos tolerating one or two herbicides that are about to be banned are of little interest and, moreover, are dangerous for biodiversity.
the issues raised are glufosinate, which is due to be banned in 2017 (ownership is therefore useless) and the destruction of biodiversity.
it first requested an analysis from the european food safety authority (efsa) to verify that the maize seed was not hazardous to human and animal health and the environment.
‒ i voted in favour of this objection because it is against the use of a gmo that is harmful to biodiversity.
the different properties of these gmos pose several problems: carcinogenic herbicides, insecticides leading to the destruction of biodiversity, etc.
the commission has fully complied with the procedure by requesting the european food safety authority to carry out a study on the safety of the plant for human and animal health and the environment.
gmos tolerating one or two herbicides that are about to be banned are of little interest and, moreover, are dangerous for biodiversity.
the problem raised concerns the destruction of biodiversity, and i therefore voted in favour.
it first requested an analysis from the european food safety authority (efsa) to verify that the maize seed was not hazardous to human and animal health and the environment.
‒ i voted in favour of this objection because it is against the use of a gmo that is harmful to biodiversity.
the different properties of these gmos pose several problems: carcinogenic herbicides, insecticides leading to the destruction of biodiversity, etc.
in addition, cases of cross-contamination of an invasive plant with bt toxin have been found in the eu territory, which is evidence of its danger to the ecosystem.
the commission has fully complied with the procedure by requesting the european food safety authority to carry out a study on the safety of the plant for human and animal health and the environment.
gmos tolerating one or two herbicides that are about to be banned are of little interest and, moreover, are dangerous for biodiversity.
the problem raised concerns the destruction of biodiversity, and i therefore voted in favour.
it first requested an analysis from the european food safety authority (efsa) to verify that the maize seed was not harmful to human and animal health and the environment.
‒ i voted in favour of this objection because it is against the use of a gmo that is harmful to biodiversity.
the different properties of these gmos pose several problems: carcinogenic herbicides, insecticides leading to the destruction of biodiversity, etc.
the commission has fully complied with the procedure by requesting the european food safety authority to carry out a study on the safety of the plant for human and animal health and the environment.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
gmos tolerating one or two herbicides that are about to be banned are of little interest and, moreover, are dangerous for biodiversity.
the issues raised are glufosinate, which is due to be banned in 2017 (so ownership is useless), glyphosate which is carcinogenic and the destruction of biodiversity.
it requested a prior analysis by the european food safety authority (efsa) to verify the absence of danger to human and animal health and the environment.
‒ i voted in favour of this objection because it is against the use of a gmo that is harmful to biodiversity.
the different properties of these gmos pose several problems: carcinogenic herbicides, insecticides leading to the destruction of biodiversity, etc.
the commission has fully complied with the procedure by requesting the european food safety authority to carry out a study on the safety of the plant for human and animal health and the environment.
these distortions of competition are indeed commonplace in this single internal market, whether they are social, environmental, financial, economic or political in nature.
however, compliance with the rule is a condition for the results of sustainable and modern fishing.
the european parliament exists to legislate on subjects of priority for citizens: employment, the protection of our borders, the environment, reindustrialisation, economic and commercial recovery... it would be a mistake to think that he must also be the judge of liberties and the guardian of treaties.
the financial situation of cyprus and greece is such that without assistance from the european union, the sustainability of projects co-financed by these states and the european funds would no longer be assured.
this is a bad logic: statistics must focus on data that are important for user safety and the ecological bifurcation of transport (by integrating, for example, railway statistics).
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the production of certain products.
thus, distortions of competition are indeed commonplace within the single internal market itself, whether they are of a social, environmental, financial, economic or political nature.
distortions of competition are commonplace in the single market, whether they are social, environmental, financial, economic or political.
on the other hand, distortions of competition resulting from disparities between national legal systems are far less harmful than those resulting from social, environmental and fiscal dumping practiced by certain member states within the european union itself.
its rules cover all aspects of trade policy, such as preferential trade, health and environmental controls, common agricultural and fisheries policies, and the protection of our economic interests through non-tariff instruments and external policy measures.
distortions of competition are commonplace within the single market itself, whether they are of a social, environmental, financial, economic or political nature.
while all member states are governed by the same regulatory framework, laws apply to them differently, given their different economic, political, social, environmental and financial make-up.
distortions of competition are commonplace within the single market itself, whether they are of a social, environmental, financial, economic or political nature.
however, this harmonization does not take into account the social, environmental, financial, economic or political realities of the states.
however, this harmonization does not take into account the social, environmental, financial, economic or political realities of the states.
distortions of competition are indeed commonplace within the single market itself, whether they are of a social, environmental, financial, economic or political nature.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
i voted in favour of the report on the european union's strategy towards iran after the nuclear agreement signed on 14 july 2015. while recalling our concerns and differences on the death penalty, particularly for minors, and on human rights, this report lays the foundations for the future relationship between the european union and iran and identifies common priorities, namely strengthening political dialogue, trade and cooperation in the field of energy, aviation security, migration, regional issues, the fight against drugs, and education, research and innovation.
the union has the opportunity to renew and develop its economic, trade and energy relations with iran.
eu-iran cooperation, including in the field of energy, should have as a systematic objective to improve environmental, social and economic benefits both in iran and in the eu.
the demographic and energy power of the region, iran managed the feat of dealing simultaneously with the united states in iraq and with the russians in syria.
the aim is, of course, to encourage european companies to enter this new market, particularly in the energy and transport sectors.
the agreement provides an opportunity to strengthen cooperation between the two partners in economic, commercial and energy matters.
the trade and energy opportunities opened up to the eu by the lifting of sanctions, which have taken place in the meantime, are certainly not new.
such a reading of the text could, for example, prevent certain environmental or trade union activists from running for office or holding public office, which is obviously too restrictive and contrary to the aim pursued.
the report, adopted in may 2016, makes proposals for new forms of crime, whistleblower protection and environmental crime.
the more so with global warming, the more these flows require a global and sustained response.
by increasing free trade agreements and tariff concessions with countries which practice social and environmental dumping, the european union is encouraging our companies, which are subject to unfair international competition, to relocate their activities to these states.
‒ in a globalised economic environment, where the international division of labour has become established, goods pass through several stages of manufacture in what are known as 'global value chains'.
i regret, however, that the report does not call for the establishment of an international tribunal under un jurisdiction to try these human rights violations and environmental crimes, as i myself have argued before the un.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states.
i regret, however, that the report refers to the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) on energy and raw materials for the union's energy security.
‒ this text is very clearly in favour of the gas sector the only acceptable fossil energy in the long term whose development should allow a smooth ecological transition, with good economic prospects at the core, especially in terms of jobs that cannot be relocated with biomethane.
however, apart from the interference in our energy policy with the strengthening of the power of the commission and its agencies, apart from the systematic desire to liberalise the energy market, this report, which speaks four times of 'eu energy diplomacy', seems above all to be the result of geopolitical orientations in opposition to those advocated by the national front.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which i believe is part of the process of rapid transition to a sustainable energy system in the union and of ending dependence on external gas suppliers.
‒ apart from the interference in our energy policy with the strengthening of the power of the commission and its agencies, and the systematic desire to liberalise the energy market, this report, which speaks four times of eu 'energy diplomacy', seems above all to be the result of geopolitical orientations that are not ours and that take precedence over any other considerations.
if this text is not as caricaturedly anti-russian as could be that of algirdas saudargas on "energy security" (surprisingly rejected in june 2015 thanks to the adoption in extremis of an amendment in favor of a moratorium on shale gas), the "solidarity" also invoked on several occasions seems to have to do at all costs with states that do everything to cut us off from this natural as well as strategic partner as russia.
it is the only acceptable fossil energy in the long term, the development of which should allow a smooth ecological transition, with good economic prospects at the heart, especially for jobs that cannot be offshored with biomethane.
however, this text marks an interference in our energy policy with the strengthening of the power of the commission and its agencies, in addition to the systematic desire to liberalize the energy market.
the report also calls for the liberalisation of the energy market and the strengthening of the commission's power over the member states in this area, which i oppose.
the development of these alternative fuels, which can be used in road and maritime transport, could make it possible to complete the ecological transition smoothly, with good economic prospects, particularly in terms of job creation.
we have nevertheless opposed this report, which is an attack on the sovereignty of the member states in the field of energy policy.
the european union's interference, coupled with geopolitical orientations clearly aimed at marginalizing russia from our trade relations in order to increase our energy dependence on us shale gas.
the european union must promote credible solutions to meet its international commitments to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions.
the low greenhouse gas emissions of lng make it a good transition fuel for transport as well as for heat and electricity production.
‒ i voted in favour of this report which proposes to set up an internal energy market incorporating liquefied natural gas (lng).
it is a gas cooled to -161°c, condensed to liquid state and therefore has advantages in terms of storage, transport and respect for the environment.
the report advocates an energy policy in favour of the use of natural gas, through the exploitation of the eu's internal resources.
according to the international energy agency, global natural gas consumption is expected to increase by 50% by 2035. europeans must therefore step up their efforts to move towards a more sustainable, secure and competitive energy system.
this will reduce our dependence on third countries for natural gas and will make it possible to develop the use of renewable energy, a sector of the future.
‒ this text is favourable to the gas sector, which is an acceptable fossil energy source and offers good prospects, particularly in terms of jobs that cannot be relocated with biomethane.
our internal energy market must fully integrate lng and gas storage will play an important role in achieving the ultimate goal of an energy union resilient to geopolitical contingencies.
‒ i believe that the use of the gas sector is an appropriate way of promoting a less tumultuous ecological transition and of creating real economic potential, particularly through biomethane.
there is no question of increasing the commission's power of intervention, of liberalizing the energy market more than is necessary, or of giving rise to a so-called energy diplomacy whose geopolitical character would be the only, if not the main driver.
in addition to interference in the energy policy of the member states, with the strengthening of the power of the european commission and its agencies, and the systematic desire to liberalise the energy market, this report, which speaks four times of 'eu energy diplomacy', seems above all to be the result of questionable geopolitical orientations.
in addition to the eu's interference in energy policy and its desire to liberalise the energy market, this report deals with the eu's 'energy diplomacy' and seems to be the result of geopolitical strategies that are not necessarily those of the states, and which therefore benefit other powers such as the united states with shale gas.
‒ the security of the eu's energy supply is a matter of paramount importance.
the content is certainly positive when, recalling the commitments made under the paris climate agreement, it refers to the binding targets for 2030 repeated by the european parliament in terms of renewable energy, energy efficiency and emission reductions.
however, i cannot agree with some of the passages, in particular the one concerning the opening of a chapter on energy and raw materials in the eu-us free trade agreement currently under negotiation.
concerned about the negative impact on the environment of oil and gas from shale oil developed over the atlantic, i abstain on this text.
first, it wants to impose geopolitical guidelines on the member states in terms of energy security.
the european union is trying to interfere in our politics by imposing systematic liberalisation of the energy market and deciding which sources we can use.
it even talks about the eu's 'energy diplomacy'!
‒ natural gas currently accounts for about a quarter of the eu's gross domestic energy consumption.
the report promotes liquefied natural gas (lng) and the liberalisation of the energy market.
the council welcomed the commission's work to lift restrictions on us gas exports to the eu, which is mainly shale gas and has many environmental problems.
finally, it welcomes the future conclusion of ttip and its chapter on energy and raw materials, which i oppose.
in addition to the eu's interference in energy policy and its desire to liberalise the energy market, this report deals with the eu's 'energy diplomacy' and seems to be the result of geopolitical strategies that are not necessarily those of the states and that therefore benefit other powers such as the united states with shale gas.
‒ apart from the interference in our energy policy with the strengthening of the power of the commission and its agencies, and the systematic desire to liberalise the energy market, this report, which speaks four times of the union's 'energy diplomacy', seems above all to be the result of geopolitical orientations which are not ours and which take precedence over any other considerations.
‒ this is a very clear text in favour of the gas sector, whose development should allow a smooth ecological transition, with good economic prospects at the heart, particularly in terms of jobs that cannot be relocated thanks to biomethane.
nevertheless, the strengthening of the power of the commission and its agencies in the field of energy policy seems to me to be contrary to the interests of france, as does the systematic desire to liberalize the energy market.
the report also mentions the eu's 'energy diplomacy' four times, and geopolitical orientations, which i dispute, therefore take precedence over all other considerations.
the advantages are many: reduced geopolitical problems because lng does not transit through traditional pipelines, reduced isolation and energy dependence, increased cleanliness when it comes to fuel (less co2, sox and nox).
i voted in favour of this text, which shows that an internal energy market fully integrating lng will contribute to the emergence of an efficient energy union.
‒ in this text, the rapporteur makes good recommendations, such as the one to promote domestic energy sources or the one to promote liquefied biogas.
the rapporteur, however, points out that the european union must decide our energy policy in the name of energy diplomacy.
this is unacceptable and highly questionable, especially since this energy diplomacy is aimed at american shale gas and qatari liquefied natural gas against russian sources, historical and reliable sources.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the production of certain foodstuffs.
the union must work to make fishing sustainable.
‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to ensure effective control of fishing activities to ensure the sustainable exploitation of living marine resources and to safeguard equal treatment of european fleets.
the report stresses the importance of ensuring effective control of fishing activities in order to ensure the sustainable exploitation of living marine resources and to preserve the equal treatment of european fleets.
finally, while some elements are granted to non-polluting modes of transport, from cyclists to rail transport, the environmental dimension is quite secondary.
i will mention in particular the need to improve the networking and accessibility of transport infrastructures, the need to link this work to a more extensive ecological transition and the social integration of economically vulnerable populations, and the importance of establishing the missing links.
i am therefore surprised that this text does not at any time denounce the logic of liberalising transport at work in the ten-t. wherever it is at work, the search for profitability leads investors to reduce the network of public transport and thus to ignore the imperatives of accessibility for all and even of ecological transition (the preferred modes of transport are often individual and increasingly polluting).
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment by the use of radioactive substances.
finally, i say that we must fight to promote high standards of environmental protection and health.
the first is the logical follow-up to the paris conference and the need to over-determine an investment strategy for the ecological transition.
this time you must listen to the european parliament and make it a tool for the ecological transition.
what will you say to the citizens of europe, mr tusk, when europe does its job as a climate leader and canadian oil sands, oil and shale gas companies attack europe?
i welcome the fact that the european parliament has included the reception of refugees and their integration and the ecological challenge among these.
i regret that parliament has no ambition of its own to get the eu out of the morass of budgetary austerity, because the commission's proposal is notoriously inadequate in view of the social and ecological emergencies facing the eu; it does not even allow the eu to honour its commitments, particularly in the area of structural funds and climate finance.
the chronic investment deficit, youth unemployment, the agricultural crisis, the reception of migrants, climate change, the establishment of european borders: these are the challenges that must be addressed as european priorities.
i would stress the importance of the additional €6.3 billion proposed until 2020, which will be devoted to growth and jobs, security and external border control, and the european fund for sustainable development.
faced with the chronic investment deficit, youth unemployment, the migration crisis and the climate emergency, the eu budget must provide an operational response to all these challenges.
by increasing free trade agreements and tariff concessions with countries that practice social and environmental dumping, the european union is exacerbating the unfair international competition that weighs on our companies.
in its unbridled drive for independence from russia, estonia has over-invested in shale gas, ignoring expert reports demonstrating the poor cost-benefit ratio of europe's few deposits, not to mention the real threats to public health and the environment of this practice (fracking).
this text will allow for better protection of plant health and, consequently, of our ecosystem and the biodiversity of the european union.
‒ i voted in favour of the establishment of a common, transparent, sustainable and european regulatory framework to control and prevent the de-mining of non-indigenous pests.
these measures seem to me to be quite appropriate and will allow for better protection of the health of plants, forests, natural areas and biodiversity.
since 2013, the italian region of puglia has been facing a major ecological disaster.
the union must protect crop production and biodiversity.
‒ i voted in favour of a text to address the increased risks facing the european plant and crop production sector, arising from the emergence of new pests and diseases (caused by globalisation of trade and climate change).
it aims to take into account the increased health risks posed by the emergence of new pests and diseases resulting from globalisation and climate change, as well as the risk associated with imports from third countries.
the criticism of globalisation and its effects on trade and on the issue of climate change is therefore a foregone conclusion.
‒ globalisation of trade and climate change are promoting the introduction and spread within the eu of new organisms harmful to particularly dangerous plants.
the criticism of globalisation and its effects on trade and on the issue of climate change is therefore a foregone conclusion.
the main objective of this regulation is to address the growing risks in crop production in the european union, due in particular to the increase in diseases from foreign countries and climate change.
the criticism of globalisation and its effects on trade and on the issue of climate change is therefore a foregone conclusion.
the report rightly stresses that monetary policy alone cannot be sufficient to stimulate growth unless accompanied by sustainable investment and structural reforms.
the rapporteur simply calls for 'sustainable structural reforms' and 'the removal of obstacles to investment and the development of the internal market'.
this is why action is needed to allow growth to return to the european continent in a more sustainable way.
the main objective of economic policy coordination is to ensure sustainable economic growth within the union.
thus, while it is crucial that all member states take fiscal consolidation measures to ensure the sustainability and sustainability of their economic models, it is essential that they are accompanied by measures to promote investment, reduce inequalities and create jobs.
if the error rate is not an indication of fraud, inefficiency or waste, what does it reveal?
it has created a climate of fear and widespread self-censorship, as highlighted by reporters without borders, depriving the public of a free and diverse debate, at a time when it needs it most, to shape an opinion on the kurdish question, on the conflict in syria and its extremely complex players, on the influx of refugees, of course, and on relations with the european union.
the agenda calls for the joint debate on discharge 2014:- report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section ii european council and council [com (2015) 0377 - c8-0201/2015 - 2015/2156 (dec) ] (a8-0271/2016),- report by marian-jean marinescu, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 [com (2015) 0377 - c8-0247/2015 - 2015/2202 (dec) ] (com (2016) 0268-046)), report by marian-jean marinescu, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the energy joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, section ii european council and council [com (2015) 0377 - c8-0201/2015 - c8-0247 (dec) ] (a8-027224/2016), and report by marian-jean marinescu, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 [com (2015) 0758-0246], on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 [2015] (com (2015) 0278-024),
the joint discussion is closed.
we are facing several challenges today: the food challenge, the environmental and climate challenge and the territorial challenge.
the environmental and climate challenge and the productivity model show us every day their limits in terms of sustainability.
above all, it is important to produce, but to produce better by managing more efficiently and better protecting natural resources and biodiversity, which can play a positive role for the climate through soils.
this implies changes in our production methods, which will have to be adapted to each region and each ecosystem.
the answers to these challenges involve three specific responses: a main policy of aid for the settlement of young people; a policy of regulation of agricultural markets; the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment and to improve the quality of life in the european union.
i believe that this rural world today is part of the right balance between food, fighting global warming and maintaining a good environment.
a real waste of budget which deserves to be highlighted and reformed.
four of the six deadlines set for fusion for energy have since been met.
‒ i voted in favour of this report as recommended by the committee on the substance in its second reading, in view of the receipt of the additional evidence to justify and close the accounts on the implementation of the budget of the iter joint undertaking and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2014.
in writing.
four of the six deadlines set for fusion for energy have since been met.
for example, four of the six deadlines for fusion for energy have already been met.
four of the six deadlines set for fusion for energy have since been met.
four of the six deadlines set for fusion for energy have since been met.
of the six deadlines assigned to fusion for energy, four have since been met.
‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the 2014 discharge concerning the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy.
i have criticised the scale and frequency of european investment in nuclear, while renewables remain the poor relation of european energy policy.
‒ this joint motion for a resolution is a realistic assessment of the appalling climate in which journalists have been living in turkey since the failed coup attempt of 15 july 2016. as of october 2016, no less than 130 media professionals were detained for acts related to their work.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
it has enabled 100 000 young people aged 17 to 30 to take part in voluntary projects abroad in the fields of culture, environmental protection or social assistance.
for military tasks but also for tasks of general civil interest (firefighters, environmental protection, etc.)
the fields of action are varied: culture, environmental protection, educational or social aid, etc.
by giving greater support to small and medium-sized farms, we will be better able to support employment and sustainable development, as well as more harmonious land use.
the current cap therefore needs to be reformed to address four challenges: food, environment, climate and land.
the cap needs to be reformed to respond to these ecological and social challenges (1/5 of european farms disappeared between 2007 and 2013) and to embark on a strategy to renew the generations those under 35 years of age currently represent only 7% of farms.
the aim is clear: to strengthen small and medium-sized farms to better support employment and sustainable development, as well as harmonious land use.
in this sense, small and medium-sized farms, which account for a very large share of production and are the most successful in terms of employment and sustainable development, deserve special attention.
to address this, it calls on states to increase support for the cultivation of plant proteins (for which the eu depends on imports from third countries) and for the cultivation of local species (which contributes to the protection of biodiversity).
i know that low rates do not create a favourable environment for such a proposal, but i think that you would be responding to an aspiration of our fellow citizens and would be providing a means of finding financing for investment in the ecological transition.
i would therefore not like to waste the minute of speaking time i will need for my group.
‒ i am voting in favour of the long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks, amending council regulation no 1342/2008 of 18 december 2008. the principles of the new fisheries policy seem to us to be designed to preserve marine biodiversity.
in order to achieve the maximum sustainable yield, a range of fishing mortality values is allowed to bring cod stocks to the maximum sustainable yield.
the previous cod stock management regulation proved to be inadequate to the european objectives of sustainable exploitation of stocks.
i am therefore pleased that this report focuses on cooperation between the scientific community and fishermen to improve the sustainable management of cod stocks.
it provides more flexibility for our fishermen by changing the cod effort regime, the rules for fixing the allowable catches for low-quality stocks and protects the species and the environment by strengthening measures to combat discards.
the court of justice finally partly upheld parliament's decision, finding that the determination by parliament of the environmental principles applicable to quotas was compatible with the treaties.
i am also glad that this regulation will end the effort regime for these fisheries, leaving only the quota system, which is good news because the double system was absurd for the professionals and without any added environmental value.
‒ this report uses the deteriorating political climate in europe and the current terrorist threat as a pretext to revive the idea of a european defence policy.
europe must be able to better guarantee the safety and protection of its citizens and stabilise its external environment.
in the face of this climate of insecurity, we have no choice but to act to strengthen cooperation between states in the field of security and defence.
however, the ecological, european and integrationist traits, with the stated desire to create an additional single area for travellers by water and its almost inevitable risk of harming what remains of the french commercial fleet, make this report unacceptable.
‒ improving the use of available capacity for passenger transport by water would not only reduce congestion, but also reduce co2 emissions and improve air quality accordingly.
however, the ecological, european and integrationist traits with the stated desire to create an additional single area for waterway travellers and its almost inevitable risk of harming what remains of the french commercial fleet make this report unacceptable.
the report also calls for the establishment of a european network of national and regional authorities responsible for the protection of the environment, and for the establishment of a european network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment.
with these environmental constraints, passenger transport by water may not go beyond the embryonic stage.
faced with the need to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions, it is imperative that we change our transportation habits.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because maritime passenger transport plays a crucial role in the emergence of a more sustainable and efficient european transport sector, with policies focusing on safety, environmental standards, cross-border cooperation and competitiveness, quality, passenger rights and barrier-free accessibility.
on the other hand, this mode of transport is under-exploited in favour of road transport, leading to congestion and increased pollution, especially in cities.
‒ europe's geography, characterised by its extensive coastline, numerous islands and rivers, offers extraordinary prospects for sustainable waterborne passenger transport.
but the report does not distinguish between small regular ferries (playing a key role as a sustainable public transport alternative for citizens in their daily commutes) and cruises for mass recreational tourism.
strategic impacts on long-term social and territorial cohesion, on the decentralised local economy or on overall environmental performance are also ignored.
however, the ecological, european and integrationist traits, together with the stated desire to create an additional single area for waterway travellers and the almost inevitable risk of harming the remaining french merchant fleet, make this report unacceptable.
with cop 21 just concluded and cop 22 already under way, it is essential to reduce air pollution, particularly from congestion in certain modes of transport such as road transport.
however, the ecological, european and integrationist traits, with the stated desire to create an additional single area for waterway travellers and its almost inevitable risk of harming what remains of the french commercial fleet, make this report unacceptable.
the enhancement and strengthening of the accessibility, safety and sustainability of the maritime transport sector will significantly improve mobility efficiency, environmental performance, quality of life, financial accessibility, congestion reduction in land transport networks and urban comfort.
this leads to traffic congestion and increased pollution, especially in cities.
all this is to allow the development of tourism, sustainable ... i voted against this report.
however, some interesting avenues are proposed: including all participants, eradicating corruption and waste... with the aim of reducing dependence on development aid.
the report also recommends eradicating corruption and waste in the recipient countries in order to reduce their dependence on development aid in the long term.
in the face of climate challenges and rapid demographic change in developing countries, member states must deliver on their commitments and set out a clear agenda for action so that developing countries can become self-sufficient tomorrow.
as the world's largest donor of development aid, it is important that the union has the operational tools to contribute to poverty eradication and the promotion of the sustainable development goals.
beneficiary countries are encouraged to adopt national development policies, consolidate public finances and eradicate corruption and waste, in order to reduce dependence on development aid in the long term.
the report therefore encourages donor countries to increase the level of coordination, and recipient countries to adopt national development policies, consolidate public finances and fight corruption and waste.
‒ in the face of growing global challenges such as migration, including climate-related, food security and peace, this report encourages better cooperation and coordination of development aid at international level.
it stresses the obligation of the private sector to respect international social and environmental standards.
beneficiary countries are encouraged to adopt national development policies, consolidate public finances and eradicate corruption and waste, in order to reduce dependence on development aid in the long term.
i therefore voted in favour of this report, which recalls that effective development cannot be guaranteed without peace and respect for human rights, which are essential conditions for achieving the sustainable development goals.
beneficiary countries are encouraged to adopt national development policies, consolidate public finances and eradicate corruption and waste, in order to reduce dependence on development aid in the long term.
not only has the volume of aid not reached the level requested since 1970, but far from being aligned with local needs, aid is increasingly being used to serve the interests of european businesses, including in the fight against climate change, when it is not diverted to migration control.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the revision of directive 2001/81/ec is a matter of environmental and public health priority.
however, the environmental question should not become a burden for the states and economic actors.
in this respect, i regret the rapporteur's proposal to strengthen the commission's control over national programmes and to abolish the mechanism for deduction of emissions from the international shipping sector.
for all these reasons, and particularly because i believe that programmes to reduce air pollution should remain the responsibility of the states, i cannot support mrs girling's report, and i thank her for her excellent work.
mr president, commissioner, let us not be afraid of words, air pollution is a silent mass killer about which very little is said, but which is nevertheless a real massacre.
in france alone, this pollution is thought to be responsible for 48,000 premature deaths a year, or up to two years less life expectancy.
the ambitious target of reducing deaths from air pollution by nearly 50% by 2030 should be our guide.
finally, i am satisfied that methane emissions do not fall within the scope of this directive because this legal framework would not have been the right one for methane.
madam president, limiting global warming is necessary to safeguard the future of mankind.
197 countries have taken note of this and signed the paris agreement in 2015, committing to reduce their carbon emissions.
second, a platform of 2050 strategies brings together 22 states, 15 major cities, 17 regions and 196 companies to accelerate the reduction of carbon emissions.
third, germany is committed to reaching the "zero emissions" target by 2050 and will host the next climate conference a year from now.
however, it is feared that we will not be able to avoid climate change that will generate crises and migration.
mr buzek, you are very sensitive to the problem of global warming you want action but i wonder whether strong and binding climate agreements at the level of each state are compatible with free trade agreements.
do you not think that agreements such as tafta and ceta are incompatible with climate agreements?
madam president, commissioner, i would first like to congratulate the host country of the 22nd united nations conference on climate action, morocco, which has worked to ensure that this cop is part of the historic agreement adopted last year in paris.
cop21 marked a turning point in international cooperation to combat climate change.
yet climate change and population growth are threats unprecedented.
it's a cross-cutting issue that should be at the heart of climate action.
several key principles seem to me to be priorities: better consideration of the interaction with climate and the generalization of the river basin system, the most relevant scale for good water management.
it is a vital resource for life that deserves our full attention in our climate action.
madam president, commissioner, it is clear that the paris agreement at cop21 was a great moment of global awareness on the issue of global warming.
they would also do well to be aware of the consequences of global warming in their own territory, including the climatic disturbances they regularly experience.
if we are not in favour of the cjeu, which undermines our sovereignty, i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution which would waste time on the implementation of the dangerous ceta treaty since we will have to wait for the cjeu's judgment.
if we are not in favour of the cjeu, the vote on this motion for a resolution will waste time on the implementation of the dangerous ceta treaty, since we will have to wait for the cjeu's judgment.
air pollution causes more than 430 000 premature deaths in europe each year, including more than 50 000 in france.
the main objective is to address the health risks and environmental effects of air pollution.
‒ i voted in favour of this measured text because it is abnormal that air pollution in the union is still causing 400 000 premature deaths every year.
i therefore welcome this proposal, but i would point out that despite this legislation, pollution levels will remain above the who recommendations in much of the union.
‒ the report consists of a series of amendments by the envi committee concerning the reduction of national emissions of directive 2001/81/ec setting national ceilings for certain air pollutants.
‒ i voted against the envi report on the reduction of national emissions of directive 2001/81/ec setting national ceilings for certain air pollutants.
the rapporteur also calls for a reduction in methane emissions, which will increase the pressure on the agricultural sector, which is already facing serious difficulties due to the fall in the price of raw materials, the russian embargo and the proliferation of free trade agreements.
‒ i voted in favour of this report on the reduction of national emissions of air pollutants, which is part of the commission's legislative package on improving air quality.
this is a first reading agreement on the downward revision of national emission ceilings for five pollutants for 2020. ambitious emission reduction commitments are needed to address the health and environmental impacts of air pollutants.
this withdrawal helps to protect european agriculture and to maintain coherence between the union's policies, in particular environmental policy and the common agricultural policy.
the aim of this text is to replace the current eu regime for the annual capping of national emissions of air pollutants and to ensure that the national emission ceilings for member states apply until 2020. i fully share the objectives of this text, which aims in particular to reduce the impact on human health of pollutant emissions, which cause a large number of deaths each year.
enteric methane, which is a waste product exclusively from ruminant farming, is very difficult to reduce unless the animals are confined all year round.
i supported the directive on the reduction of national emissions of certain air pollutants.
since air quality is a common problem for all member states, the fight against air pollution is one of the main missions of the european union.
this directive will allow us to step up our efforts by limiting the emissions of europe's biggest air pollutants with binding targets for 2020, 2025 and 2030. while air pollution is responsible for around 400 000 premature deaths in the european union each year, i welcome the ambitious target we have set to reduce by 2030 the mortality due to air pollution by almost 50%.
it is important that regulations protect european citizens from environmental pollution, which is a public health problem to be taken very seriously.
the directive sets ambitious targets, such as the reduction of deaths due to air pollution by 50%.
thus, each country can and must commit to reducing its emissions of air pollutants.
it seemed relatively difficult to integrate it in a consistent way, as emissions of this methane are very difficult to measure.
it was absurd to want to limit these emissions, except to ignore livestock farming and the active role that the agricultural world also plays in the fight against global warming through the maintenance of grasslands and countrysides, real carbon sinks.
the proposals by julie girling strengthen the powers of the european union to the detriment of the member states, and remove certain facilities granted to them (reductions in emissions of nitrogen oxides, sulphur dioxide and particulate matter from international maritime trade).
‒ i voted in favour of this report because the european union must protect its citizens from the public health scourge of air pollution.
the new directive therefore requires national emission ceilings for five pollutants to be set in order to achieve the ambitious target of reducing air pollution deaths by almost 50% by 2030. i am, however, satisfied that methane emissions do not fall within the scope of this directive.
‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague julie girling on air pollutant emissions.
the text specifically targeted five pollutants, including nitrogen oxides, sulphur dioxide and fine particulate matter, with the aim of reducing them sharply by 2030. the union has recorded almost 400 000 pollution-related deaths in europe, which also has repercussions in terms of health expenditure or lost working days.
this report is therefore part of the concrete measures to combat urban pollution, in the interests of our citizens.
air pollution has become a major concern in public opinion because of its harmful effects on health and the environment.
‒ i voted against the report on emissions of certain air pollutants.
‒ air pollution is the number one environmental health risk in europe, causing more than 430 000 premature deaths in europe each year, including more than 50 000 in france.
in response to this, the european commission presented its 'air quality' legislative package in december 2013. the main objective of this draft legislation is to address the health risks and environmental effects of air pollution.
despite the good intentions of this report on emissions of certain pollutants, it is disappointing in several respects: firstly, it lacks ambition on the emission thresholds for pollutants.
the proposal before us revises this directive to introduce controls on the various types of air pollution in each member state.
the aim is to halve the number of premature deaths - estimated at 400 000 per year in the eu - caused by air pollution by 2030. however, during the negotiations with the council, key elements of the proposal were deleted.
member states will be allowed to average their emissions over three years in the event of a dry summer or a cold winter.
the aim of this revision is to set targets for 2020 and 2030 for the reduction of emissions of the main polluting gases: sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, non-methane volatile organic compounds and ammonia.
‒ the report consists of a series of amendments by the envi committee concerning the reduction of national emissions within the meaning of directive 2001/81/ec setting national ceilings for certain air pollutants.
the aim of this revision is to set targets for 2020 and 2030 for the reduction of emissions of the main polluting gases.
‒ i voted in favour of this text on emissions of pollutants into the atmosphere.
this directive aims to introduce new measures and regulations to limit air pollution in europe, which is responsible for nearly 40 000 deaths each year.
i voted against this text because of the lack of clear and coherent provisions such as ceilings for methane and mercury emissions, the absence of binding interim targets for 2025 or commitments to reduce premature mortality from air pollution by 2030.
in writing.
air pollution is the number one environmental health risk in europe.
air pollution continues to cause more than 430 000 premature deaths in europe each year, including more than 50 000 deaths in france.
so we had to respond urgently to the health risks and environmental effects of air pollution.
‒ every year in europe, 400 000 premature deaths are linked to air pollution.
action is urgently needed to significantly improve air quality by drastically limiting emissions of certain air pollutants that come directly from industrial activities, transport or the heating systems we use.
i voted in favour of this report, which provides for the limitation of emissions of nitrogen dioxide, sulphur dioxide, ammonia, fine particulate matter and non-methane volatile organic compounds by 2030 through the establishment of national programmes.
‒ i supported this report which sets new national ceilings for certain pollutants and will allow ambitious control of the level of air pollution in the european union.
we must find solutions to the serious problem of air pollution, which causes more than 400 000 premature deaths in the european union every year, including more than 48 000 in france!
by voting for this report, we are pursuing the objective of improving air quality, and the european union is fully committed to protecting european citizens from air pollution.
europe is setting itself the ambitious target of reducing the health impact of air pollution by almost 50% by 2030, while not creating additional complications for farmers.
‒ air pollution is the number one environmental health risk in europe.
according to the latest report by the european environment agency (eea) published in 2015, air pollution continues to cause over 430 000 premature deaths in europe every year.
the european commission presented an 'air quality' legislative package in december 2013 which revised the nec/pen directive, in line with the commitments made at international level following the revision of the gothenburg protocol in 2012. at the first reading in the european parliament in october 2015, my colleague éric andrieu suggested excluding enteric methane from the limitation of methane emissions.
unfortunately, following the trilogue discussions, the council asked for the exclusion of methane emissions from the directive, to meet the expectations of the european agricultural sector.
‒ the security environment in europe has deteriorated significantly in recent months.
‒ this report uses the deteriorating political climate in europe, particularly with russia, and the islamist threat as pretexts to ensure the european union's grip on the foreign and defence policies of the member states.
in a context where the european security environment is deteriorating considerably and where there is a risk of a us withdrawal from nato, i believe that the european union and its member states must take their full responsibility by continuing and strengthening the defence cooperation currently in progress.
i voted in favour of this text on the implementation of the common security and defence policy which rightly underlines the importance of increased coordination between member states in defence matters at a time when the security climate is a continuing concern.
the eu would do better to devote its energy and finances to promoting peace, multilateralism and peaceful dialogue between peoples.
doubts remain about its harmfulness to humans and the environment, despite several encouraging studies.
‒ bentazone is a pesticide whose harmfulness to humans and the environment is still being debated.
the uk environment agency has found frequent cases of bentazone contamination of ground and surface water, as pesticides tend to seep into soils.
this is all the more so after the publication of the uk environment agency study, which found frequent cases of bentazone contamination of groundwater and even surface water.
it turns out that many doubts remain about the harmfulness of this substance to humans and the environment because of the many cases of contamination of groundwater with bentazone.
we support this objection because of the precautionary principle which we must apply in the interests of our fellow citizens and the environment.
‒ bentazone is a pesticide whose harmfulness to humans and the environment is still being debated.
the uk environment agency has found frequent cases of bentazone contamination of ground and surface water, as pesticides tend to seep into soils.
doubts remain about its harmfulness to humans and the environment, despite several reassuring studies.
however, the uk environment agency has found frequent cases of bentazone contamination of groundwater and even surface water.
doubts remain about its harmfulness to humans and the environment, despite several encouraging studies.
doubts remain about its harmfulness to humans and the environment, despite several encouraging studies.
i understand the concern about the possible harmful effects of this herbicide on humans or the environment.
there are concerns about its harmfulness to humans and the environment:- bentazone can infiltrate surface and groundwater.
it should be remembered that jordan is a stable country in a totally unstable environment.
on the other hand, jordan's economic autonomy must be taken into account, especially since the arrival of syrian refugees adds significantly to the financial needs for public services, water supply, education and energy.
the first concerns public services, which should benefit from the reduced rate of vat when they deal with social, health, environmental, nutritional and cultural aspects in order to preserve the essential values of the union.
that is why i support the commission and encourage the member states to take a serious look at this crime against biodiversity.
a recent report by the wwf showed that the pressure of human activities has caused the extinction of half of all vertebrates in just 40 years, and climate change is likely to further exacerbate this pressure.
europe must be at the forefront and preserve our climate, or we will all be responsible for the sixth extinction of species.
it is respectful of biodiversity and well managed, but it is necessary.
respect namibia, which has also enshrined in its sovereign constitution the positive role of hunting in respecting biodiversity.
they face a regulatory challenge firstly due to the complexity, inherent costs and wide disparity of access rules to regulated professions; secondly, an economic challenge linked to the high costs and the perennial problem of financing with difficult access to credit for limited investment capacity; thirdly, an environmental challenge resulting from congestion, emissions and dependence on fossil fuels; fourth, to a technological challenge with the emergence of the new economy, intermediation platforms, empowerment, automation and vehicle connectivity.
the answer to all these problems implies, on the one hand, improving the environment for smes in the sector by reducing their administrative burden, by simplifying their access to credit, and even to research, by modernising the status of the professions and by facilitating access to new technologies for traditional players.
i hope it will be useful in moving towards greater efficiency, growth, employment and sustainability in the service of citizens and i look forward to listening to your speeches with great interest.
among these platforms, we find new ethical business models that pursue values of sharing, climate protection and social connection.
this is a little bit of what the collaborative economy should be based on and, from this, we should think that a collaborative economy can benefit everyone, whether it is the manufacturer, the driver, the passengers or the environment.
beyond the large public transport companies, the majority of transport in europe is therefore provided by these millions of craftsmen, self-employed people and smes who have to face environmental challenges and technological advances that upset their working and living conditions.
europe should support their adaptation to these rapid changes by improving their environment and by focusing its action on the following priorities: more effective, simpler and cheaper regulation; more legible, stable and attractive taxation; access to credit that needs to be simplified, accelerated and more effective; and social protection and tax equality.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, energy security based on federalism is putting our peoples in an energy insecure situation.
you are denying the states the fundamental freedom to contract, to ensure their own energy security in full sovereignty, which is contrary to subsidiarity, but above all to efficiency.
the liberalization of energy leads us into the short-term cheap-sell mentality and thereby undermines long-term security and profitability.
by subjecting the energy diplomacy of the states to the good will of brussels through short-term thinking, the liberalization of a natural monopoly and your political diplomacy, you are committing to total energy insecurity.
deforestation, land grabbing for food, energy, forestry, and mining industries, intensive livestock farming, and huge dams have destroyed a third of the amazon rain forest.
while they are a bulwark against climate change, they are the first victims of it via the agrofuel frenzy.
it cannot turn a blind eye to the human and environmental costs of the policies it promotes and the products it imports, nor can it escape the responsibility of european multinationals.
it takes account of the operation of pension funds following the deepwater horizon case, when the us authorities asked bp and shell to compensate for environmental damage.
the proposal therefore takes environmental and social risks into account in the risk analysis.
while significant progress has been made in the development of the text, such as the inclusion of environmental and social data in the fund's investments, aimed at increasing transparency and information for beneficiaries, the nature of the pension fund remains and parliament's requests to further restrict investment opportunities to ensure its security have not been heard.
‒ a lot of transparency issues, since the commission only gives what it wants, whether in the area of ttip, tobacco or emis (emissions in the automotive sector).
in a climate of mistrust of the institutions, it is therefore important to emphasise the effectiveness of these operations.
‒ the commission has not made the effort i expected in terms of transparency, since the information it wants to disclose is carefully selected, as we see in the area of tobacco or emissions from the automotive sector.
‒ i voted against this report because, when it comes to transparency, the commission gives only what it wants, whether in the area of ttip, tobacco or emis (emissions in the automotive sector).
‒ i voted against the report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2015. there is a lot of talk about transparency, since the commission only gives what it wants, whether it is in the area of ttip, tobacco or emissions in the automotive sector.
‒ the commission is only giving what it wants in terms of transparency, whether it is in the area of ttip, tobacco or emis (emissions in the automotive sector).
‒ the report presents the european ombudsman's remarks on 2015. there are many shortcomings in terms of transparency, since the commission only gives what it wants, whether in the field of ttip, tobacco or emis (emissions in the automotive sector).
‒ with this report, we have a big problem with transparency, since the commission only gives what it wants, whether in the area of ttip, tobacco or emis (emissions in the automotive sector).
‒ a lot of transparency issues, since the commission only gives what it wants, whether in the area of ttip, tobacco or emis (emissions in the automotive sector).
this report proposes several measures to create a simple, efficient vat environment that is adapted to current challenges and facilitates cross-border transactions.
fragmented, complex and costly, it needs to be reformed to enable the european single market to offer businesses a simple vat environment.
finally, a review of the list of reduced rates must be put in place, taking into account social, health, environmental, nutritional, cultural and gender equality aspects.
‒ i voted in favour of this text, which provides for strict measures to combat the growing trade in illegal wildlife products, which is destroying the planet's ecosystem.
illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, for example, leads to, among other things, the trafficking of marine wildlife and thus poses a threat to the sustainable exploitation of living aquatic resources.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
to this end, it is important to take greater account of biodiversity and sustainable development in trade.
wildlife trafficking is considered one of the most lucrative criminal activities and is a threat to biodiversity.
in addition, wildlife trafficking has major negative impacts on biodiversity, existing ecosystems, the natural heritage of the countries of origin, natural resources and species conservation.
in other words, once again, a levelling down in the countries of western and northern europe... here, as in most europeanist reports, certain guidelines are constantly reiterated, in particular a standardization of the legal framework (except for wage, social and tax burdens), a marked liberalization and a rejection of subsidies in general, and cosmetic considerations: the reduction of pollution and the fight against social dumping which are the logical and immediate consequence of the two previous points, but which serve only as a political display.
with often limited resources, they have to cope with a growing demand for mobility under the constraints of limited infrastructure and environmental requirements.
‒ while the interest of the subject is real, the report is undermined by an ideological and europeanist point of view; the report, which is a compromise between the standardization of the legal framework, excessive liberalization and the rejection of subsidies, all of which is barely masked by pseudo-environmental considerations, would certainly drag the countries of western and northern europe down.
despite the real interest of the subject, the rest of the guidelines call for more assertive liberalisation and a false ecological and social interest, ultimately a leveling down.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because it contains a number of proposals to create opportunities for small transport companies: accelerating efforts to complete the single european transport area, ending national disparities, encouraging convergence between the traditional and the platform economies in order to promote innovation, protect consumers and promote fair competition, or organising better coordination between local authorities and small transport companies to improve urban mobility in a sustainable development perspective.
‒ while the interest of the subject is real, the report is undermined by an ideological and europeanist point of view; the report, which is a compromise between the standardization of the legal framework, excessive liberalization and the rejection of subsidies, all of which is barely masked by pseudo-environmental considerations, would certainly drag the countries of western and northern europe down.
unfortunately, once again, the europeanist ideology often blinds recommendations: the main one aimed at enabling the harmonious and competitive development of small transport companies would be the integration of the transport market by standardizing legislation, especially in terms of safety requirements, training requirements, requirements which are seen as a means of distorting competition; the standardisation of the legal framework (except for wage, social security and taxation); increased liberalization and a general rejection of subsidies; the commission's proposal is based on the following two points: the reduction of pollution and the fight against social dumping, which are the logical and immediate consequence of the two previous points, but which are only used for political advertising.
the construction of the country's first nuclear power plant, whose compliance with nuclear and environmental safety standards has yet to be proven, is also a cause for concern.
the project must be carried out in accordance with international standards for nuclear safety and environmental protection.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, finally, we have this debate in the european parliament's plenary on the most important foreign policy issue for our continent, namely africa and its access to energy, because the figures speak for themselves: out of more than 1 billion africans, 700 million have no access to electricity.
to this, of course, must be added the demographic prospect of a continent that will have nearly 2 billion inhabitants by 2050 and will suffer from climate change in its full force, with all that this implies in terms of food security, access to energy or tensions around the use of agricultural land.
our message is simple: let's go, it's time to help developing countries, and especially africa, to expand their access to energy.
this is what's behind the access to energy.
morocco has developed the world's largest solar thermal power plant in ouarzazate, which will provide clean energy to more than 1 million moroccans by 2018. another example is kenya, where only a third of the population has access to electricity, and which has developed the lake turkana wind farm.
it is expected to generate 20 percent of kenya's energy by summer 2017. more generally, the hydraulic basins of central africa, the rift valley fault and the sunshine enjoyed by the continent in general are sources of hydropower, geothermal or solar energy that are unmatched in the rest of the world.
we can feel the first signs of a continent which could become a renewable energy pool if it is properly supported, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen.
of the €10 billion pledged last year at cop21 - which i was the rapporteur for the european parliament - to the african renewable energy agency, only half has been provided by the most developed countries.
i am thinking in particular of the enormous work done by jean-louis borloo with his energy for africa initiative.
now is the time to change course and implement this great marshall plan for energy access in africa, as called for by jean-louis borloo and his foundation.
with this great marshall plan for energy access, we have the opportunity to implement this great and beautiful action for the development of our neighbour.
it seems to me absolutely necessary that such an instrument should be dedicated to energy access and be ready as soon as possible, in particular before the next eu-africa summit in autumn 2017, as proposed by the european commission.
the marshall plan for the electrification of africa, the instruments for external investment, support for the african renewable energy agency: that is how, commissioner, we can, in a very concrete way, help the development of energy access on a continent which so badly needs it.
in short, commissioner, let us go ahead and waste no more time!
when i was head of the energy sector in alsace - it was my first job as a civil servant - i wanted to do something for africa.
– mr president, the european commission is committed to the goal of assisting developing countries in providing energy access for 500 million people by 2030. this is of course a target that cannot be achieved by the eu funds alone; the contribution of all global actors will be required.
today we estimate that the projects supported with eu funds under the current multiannual financial framework by 2020 will contribute to provide on-grid and off-grid access to energy for up to 40 million people, generate 6.5 gigawatts of renewable energy capacity and save 15 million tonnes of co2 per year in our developing country partners.
the first message is that the priority remains, more than ever, to tackle the problem of migration by strengthening control of our external borders, while allowing the dignified reception of new arrivals and the humanely sustainable return of migrants who cannot claim refugee status.
this is the last budget of vice-president georgieva, who has left her mark, her expertise, her energy, her drive and her charisma.
mr president, as the fictitious rapporteur for the other sections, on behalf of my socialist and democratic group, i am pleased that we have reached results which are in line with the realities of the moment, particularly on the question of supporting the means of the european parliament to remain a place of democracy, on the question of adjustments which are linked to security and on the question of measures which help to reduce the ecological footprint linked to our parliamentary activity.
the house also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
i say yes to european solidarity with the italians, not to waste for the migrants.
i would like to see the decision to appoint and then retain mr miguel arias cañete as energy commissioner, despite the conflicts of interest that have been discovered and denounced on several occasions.
this review should not only be based on the progress made in the years preceding this evaluation but also take into account the potential risks of air pollution that a visa exemption may create in the medium term as we have seen with some countries in the western balkans.
this review should not only be based on the progress made in the years preceding this evaluation but also take into account the potential risks of air pollution that a visa exemption may create in the medium term as we have seen with some countries in the western balkans.
this agreement will allow us to deepen our dialogue with the solomon islands, particularly on environmental and climate issues, which directly affect all citizens.
this review should not only be based on the progress made in the years preceding this evaluation but also take into account the potential risks of air pollution that a visa exemption may create in the medium term as we have seen with some countries in the western balkans.
this review should not only be based on the progress made in the years preceding this evaluation but also take into account the potential risks of air pollution that a visa exemption may create in the medium term as we have seen with some countries in the western balkans.
this agreement will not only strengthen our economic and cultural relations by facilitating investment and tourism, but also our political dialogue, particularly on climate change issues.
this review should not only be based on the progress made in the years preceding this evaluation, but also take into account the potential risks of air pollution that a visa exemption may create in the medium term, as we have seen with some countries in the western balkans.
these include floods, earthquakes, forest fires and other disasters that are often unpredictable and have major social, economic and environmental consequences.
i voted in favour of this report which proposes improvements to the eusf for rapid and effective financial assistance to the victims of climate change and its most violent consequences.
the committee also welcomes the commission's proposal to amend the existing rules on the protection of the environment.
it provides for cooperation to strengthen capacity in tax reform and to improve the business climate, competitiveness, trade facilitation and customs cooperation.
finally, this draft amending budget concentrates in advance the provisioning of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) by redeploying eur 73.9 million in commitment appropriations from the energy component of the connecting europe facility (cef-energy).
finally, this draft amending budget concentrates in advance the provisioning of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) by redeploying eur 73.9 million in commitment appropriations from the energy component of the connecting europe facility (cef-energy).
in order to ensure the sustainability of the funding of eu actions on the management of the migration crisis and the security challenges it faces, i supported the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument, amounting to eur 530 million, from 2017 to 2020.
in writing.
it must be flexible and flexible to enable all unused margins to be mobilised to meet the major challenges, notably jobs in sustainable growth.
the case is linked to energy security issues, for which it is necessary to safeguard the interests of france and therefore to oppose the extension of the commission's field of competence.
oil and gas accidents at sea are serious environmental disasters, and the european union must be particularly strict about them.
‒ i voted in favour of this report which recommends updating the existing liability systems in the member states to ensure that, if an incident occurs in the waters of these states, it does not affect the future of offshore oil and gas operations or the whole eu ecosystem and local players.
it mixes access to energy and clean water, emphasis on female gender identity, traditional wood-fired cooking versus modern and improved stoves, energy poverty, renewable and fossil energy, subsidies to the latter, dam construction, private-public partnerships, human rights, climate justice, etc.
in the end, there is something indecent about asking to limit the access of fossil fuels to these populations, asking them to change their lifestyles when those of westerners are much more expensive in energy.
‒ this motion for a resolution addresses many interesting points, but it piles them all together (access to energy and clean water, women's rights, climate justice, energy poverty, etc.)
‒ i chose to abstain on this resolution, which is full of good intentions but which is scattered in all directions as regards the challenges and possible solutions for access to energy in developing countries.
the text thus provides an overview of the challenges faced by these countries: access to clean water, climate justice, human rights, gender specificity, or traditional wood-fired cooking versus modern stoves.
finally, i doubt whether the european institutions can give moral lessons on access to fossil fuels when the lifestyles of westerners are not the most environmentally responsible: multiple air travel via low-cost airlines or public lighting with high energy consumption, especially during the holiday season.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because i consider that access to energy is an accelerator of development.
access to affordable and reliable clean energy is one of the prerequisites for poverty reduction and economic development.
improving health, cooking methods, food security, access to clean water are only possible through the sustainable development of energy sources in developing countries.
objective 7 of the un sustainable development goals aims to ensure that by 2030 all people have access to affordable, reliable and modern energy services.
in the context of improving access to energy, stakeholders need to be involved in decision-making and project development in order to have easily usable, sustainable and culturally acceptable sources.
‒ this resolution aims to take stock of energy poverty in developing countries by highlighting the large number of people who still do not have access to electricity.
the european parliament is thus committed to supporting the commission's 'energy for development' initiative, which aims to provide an additional 500 million people in developing countries with access to sustainable energy by 2030. considering the need to provide equitable access to basic needs, including access to energy, i voted in favour of this report.
i voted in favour of the resolution on energy access in developing countries.
access to energy is an accelerator of economic and human development and reduces potential security problems.
the european union's development aid in the energy sector has increased significantly for the period 2014-2020, which will allow africa in particular to exploit its high potential for renewable energy resources.
the report covers the following issues: access to energy and clean water, emphasis on the specificity of women, traditional wood-fired cooking, energy poverty, renewable energy, etc.
other problems, on the other hand, have been ignored: the demographics of africa and the difficulty of doing without fossil fuels, even though westerners are the main ones responsible for the waste of resources.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which aims to take stock of energy poverty in developing countries by highlighting the large number of people who do not have access to electricity.
it proposes solutions to achieve more effective and sustainable energy access.
it wants to remove funding for fossil fuels in favour of modern energy, which makes no sense in developing countries.
this text deals with a wide range of issues relating to the development of third countries, including access to energy.
‒ the resolution mixes access to energy and clean water, emphasis on gender specificity, traditional cuisine, energy poverty, renewable and fossil energy, subsidies to the latter, dam construction, private-public partnerships, human rights, climate justice, etc.
it is also a complete paradox to ask that these populations be restricted in their access to fossil fuels, to ask them to change certain lifestyles, when in other regions such waste and consumption have never been so widespread and almost indecent, and when population growth has never been so problematic.
‒ there is something indecent about asking to limit the access of people in developing countries to fossil fuels, asking them to change certain lifestyles at a time when westerners are spending more time travelling around the world in low-cost cars and wasting energy shamelessly at christmas time, these lights in december representing on average 10% of the annual energy expenditure of public lighting in a large french city.
‒ i voted in favour of this text on access to energy in developing countries.
the resolution takes stock of energy poverty in developing countries and makes proposals to improve access to energy, such as the transfer of solar and wind technologies from the union to developing countries.
it is high time to help developing countries, and in particular africa, to increase their access to energy.
this is what's behind the access to energy in developing countries.
it mixes access to energy and clean water, emphasis on female gender identity, traditional wood-fired cooking versus modern and improved stoves, energy poverty, renewable and fossil energy, subsidies to the latter, dam construction, private-public partnerships, human rights, climate justice, etc.
‒ sustainable access to reliable, safe and affordable energy, as well as access to clean water, health and education, is fundamental for all human beings, but also for ensuring the economic development of countries.
we must redouble our efforts in the energy sector to help protect the environment and also to improve development.
that is why i voted in favour of this resolution, which refers to the seriousness of the energy situation in developing countries.
it is important to stress that we will only overcome this problem by encouraging local production of renewable energy.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on access to energy in developing countries.
at the same time, more than 70% of africa's total energy consumption comes from renewable sources, but there are many opportunities to diversify these sources and include new ones.
it mixes access to energy and clean water, emphasis on female gender identity, traditional wood-fired cooking versus modern and improved stoves, energy poverty, renewable and fossil energy, subsidies to the latter, dam construction, private-public partnerships, human rights, climate justice, etc.
there is something indecent about asking to limit the access of fossil fuels to these populations, asking them to change certain lifestyles at a time when westerners spend more time traveling cheaply around the planet and waste energy shamelessly at christmas time, these lighting in december representing on average 10% of the annual energy expenditure of public lighting in a large french city.
we have no choice but to increase the share of trains in europe, and if we want to achieve the greenhouse gas reduction targets, well we have not given ourselves enough means, even though we have the paris agreements.
(the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection)
answer is "blue cardboard".
that is to say, yes, sustainability, because we must finally take rail, and in particular trains, into account throughout europe and invest.
we need a new pact with the workers, but also with climate objectives that must be met.
(the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection)
answer is "blue cardboard".
simply because i am calling for your vigilance, i am calling for a wake-up call in this parliament, to say: 'we cannot take this risk, so let us reopen the discussions so that the best social and environmental arguments prevail above all.
europe-oriented elites or naïve globalists, you pretend to fight against global warming but encourage international travel, when it might be more profitable to promote proximity or even the local.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the production of certain products.
firstly, because we are at the heart of the question of sustainable development, that is to say at the heart of the famous triangle which should be equilateral, defined in rio, between environment, economy and social.
the fisheries sector is an economic activity which, in addition to the social function of its jobs, also has a social function in terms of food and, of course, a strong environmental impact.
since 2012, when the barroso commission proposed a ban on deep-sea fishing, we have been able to say: 'at least i was sure of it' 'that we could make this sustainable development work, which is often just a slogan, the certainty that a compromise was possible' 'not necessarily a compromise between the political groups, that is always possible, or almost so' but a compromise on the big issues, namely, precisely, the vulnerable seabed to be protected, the species to be protected, but also economic activity and its jobs and the food function.
the winners are those who refuse to let the three angles of the sustainable development triangle defined in rio sink into the bermuda triangle and believe that human intelligence can triumph.
we have had the difficult task of finding a compromise between our environmental ambitions to safeguard very slow-maturing species and the preservation of vulnerable ecosystems, and the safeguarding of regulated targeted and by-catch fisheries that are necessary for some of our european regions.
we have reached a balanced agreement that respects the marine environment and enhances the sustainability of fisheries, based on an awareness of the vulnerability of european and global seabeds.
we have sought and obtained an agreement which is economically and ecologically sustainable and profoundly european.
madam president, commissioners, it is true that energy policy and economic policy are two sides of the same coin and must be dealt with together.
the energy union package you are proposing provides solutions to the immense challenges facing the european union.
i'm very interested in the announcements you've made to us, on the one hand, about energy efficiency, on the other hand, about eco-design; this will lead to a lot of investment, and therefore a lot of jobs, and therefore growth.
however, with regard to energy efficiency, it is also important to know what kind of financing can be offered.
renewables are an important factor, but they need to be complementary to other current energy sources, whether nuclear, geothermal, hydroelectric or biogas produced by methanation.
however, in this area, we need research - it has been said - and i wonder, because we had pilot projects to capture and store carbon.
finally, the energy union will be gradually achieved, first at local level in the communities, by better networks more connected by interconnections that will create a much denser mesh of the european territory.
i am convinced that this energy union is a key strategic driver for the success of the european union and we will support you in this.
if we wanted to have an ambitious policy on energy efficiency and new energy sources, the only possibility, given the amounts that would have to be invested to go beyond the market, to have a voluntary policy, would have been to use monetary creation - what is called quantitative easing - in agreement with the central bank, to make a programme of 500 billion new investments in energy savings and new energy sources.
you have not done so and you have largely destroyed the instruments we had after the second world war to build an effective energy policy.
we therefore risk insecurity and face energy insecurity.
madam president, commissioner, my colleagues have already had the opportunity to call for more ambition, with higher binding targets on the three key parameters of your package: greenhouse gas emissions, energy efficiency and renewables, and i agree with them.
how, then, can we reconcile the need for energy security with our commitments to reduce co2?
what do you propose to do to revive energy efficiency investment in the electricity-intensive industries that your own services have recently noted to be at a standstill?
you took a step forward on energy poverty by recognising that this was a truly european issue.
finally, since you seem to be taking inspiration from the european semester for your governance component, how do you intend to transform what is today a somewhat jaded technocratic procedure into a genuine democratic exercise in positive debate on common energy options?
but we must realise the disastrous impact of these 21st century windmills on our ecosystem.
that is why i believe it is time to reinvest in other renewable energies, marine hydro, for example, like normandie hydro, neglected in recent years.
hydropower remains by far the leading renewable electricity source.
‒ the purpose of this proposal for a regulation is to tighten the conditions for fishing in deep-sea and international waters, as the current regulations do not guarantee sustainable and reasonable fishing, capable of protecting extremely fragile ecosystems.
finally, while we could previously have been concerned about the effects on employment in france of the ban on deep-sea fishing, the problem no longer arises in the same way since scapêche, the only french operator in this sector, is gradually withdrawing from deep-sea fishing under pressure from environmental organizations.
however, these restrictions are insufficient to ensure sustainable fishing and to protect these particularly fragile ecosystems.
we believe that this report will help to protect marine resources and limit environmental damage without threatening employment in france as scapêche, the only operator in this sector, is gradually withdrawing from deep-sea fishing.
‒ i voted in favour of this balanced report which preserves both the marine environment and deep-sea species, but also makes it possible to enhance the sustainability of fisheries.
we have sought and obtained an agreement which is economically and ecologically sustainable and profoundly european.
the implementation of this text will reduce the impact of this fishery on the seabed, while preserving a sustainable fishing activity necessary for our european market and jobs in coastal areas.
deep-sea fishing, if unregulated, represents a considerable risk to the sustainable management of fish stocks.
‒ deep water is the largest ecosystem on the planet, but also one of the most sensitive.
we no longer have any reason to support this practice, which causes certain environmental problems.
but these restrictions are not enough to guarantee sustainable fishing and protect these particularly fragile ecosystems.
the damage caused by trawlers can be irreplaceable for both the environment and stocks because of the high rate of bycatch.
the expertise of scientific observers will help to determine with certainty the potential for a sustainable level of fishing.
the report aims to ensure the sustainable exploitation of deep-sea stocks while minimising the environmental impact of this fishery.
i supported this agreement, which i consider to be balanced in that it allows for sustainable fishing of deep-sea species while ensuring the preservation of vulnerable ecosystems and the conservation of deep-sea stocks, which are characterised by very slow growth.
‒ i have approved at second reading this report which lays down specific conditions for fishing for deep-sea stocks in the north-east atlantic and provisions for fishing in international waters of the same ocean which are intended to protect the ecosystem.
‒ by voting on the report by the socialist isabelle thomas, parliament reverses a vote in december 2013 which authorised deep-sea trawling, but which can have catastrophic effects on the seabed and its ecosystem.
the text proposes stricter regulation of deep-sea fishing in order to solve several problems: firstly, the vulnerability of the stocks of these fish; secondly, the damage to marine ecosystems caused by these large deep-sea trawls; and finally, the uncertainty about the sustainability of these fishing levels.
the current regulations already provide for certain restrictions, but they are not sufficient to protect the very fragile ecosystems and to guarantee sustainable fishing in these waters.
‒ following the adoption of parliament's position at first reading in plenary on 10 december 2013, trilogue negotiations were launched to reach an agreement in july 2016. trawl fishing in deep water is prohibited from 800 m and from 400 m for the areas called 'vulnerable marine environment'.
the negotiated outcome limits predation on the marine ecosystem while contributing to the sustainability of the fisheries sector.
the damage caused to the environment and the marine ecosystem, not to mention the near-impossibility of restoring stocks, led me to vote for this report, which will not have any impact on the french economic fabric, and to vote against the rejection amendment.
but these restrictions are not enough to guarantee sustainable fishing this is why fishing opportunities have been constantly reduced since the introduction of regulations.
but these restrictions are not enough to guarantee sustainable fishing and protect these particularly fragile ecosystems.
deep-sea trawling accounts for only 1% of european fisheries but causes serious damage to the environment.
it shall strengthen controls and sanctions for infringers; it promotes better environmental knowledge through the collection of data on ships and the publication of studies on the impact on resources and ecosystems.
this monitoring should allow the regulation to be adjusted to environmental realities.
we have worked with the council to develop regulations which take account of both environmental requirements and socioeconomic issues.
this balance is the key to sustainable development.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
nor is there any mention of environmental rights, when the european commission is constantly polluting us with its gmos and chemicals, aided by the big lobbies in brussels.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because, while the digital transition is now unavoidable, it cannot go against the tide of the sustainability of a living culture, which is a source of significant growth.
for example, copyright must be modernised to protect creators and empower hosts and intermediaries, and thus enable everyone to enjoy the cultural offer in a fair and sustainable way.
another recommendation of the report is to create a more favourable environment for investment and to support mixed forms of funding, such as public-private partnerships, which is favourable to the economy and will boost the cultural sector.
in this respect, the reform of the carbon market is moving forward, and will allow the development of low-carbon technologies to reduce the effects of climate change.
as regards energy, the security of gas supply has been and will be a central topic of our discussions.
unfortunately, we are still lacking - and this is largely the fault of the member states, of course - in this hierarchy of priorities which would make the european union really matter where it matters, and in particular in our immediate environment.
i am very concerned to see the european union losing its environment, from ukraine to syria, libya and the horn of africa.
our credibility is first and foremost in our immediate environment, so i would ask you to put the package together for the coming year, to focus on issues that are really in our environment and that weigh on our stability.
for that we need president juncker to take up his pilgrim's staff again to bring the five presidents' report to life and finally complete a sustainable economic and monetary union.
i am also opposed to free trade agreements, especially in the present economic climate.
high customs duties are abolished, services markets are liberalised, public procurement is opened up, with environmental and social standards imposed... ecuadorian fisheries will no longer be subject to customs duties.
i take this opportunity to say that the very existence of this system discredits ultra-liberal ideology since it recognises the need for customs duties, protected pigs, social and environmental standards, in short, intelligent protectionism, in order to promote economic development.
the agreement includes a drastic reduction in customs duties and the liberalisation of the services market in return for stricter environmental and social standards.
this is the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement between the eu, on the one hand, and colombia and peru, on the other, dating from 2012. the text includes the abolition of 90% of customs duties in the agricultural sector within 17 years, the liberalisation of the services market and the imposition of environmental and labour standards.
customs duties will be abolished, service markets liberalized, pgi protected, public procurement opened up, with environmental and labour standards imposed.
this agreement echoes all the liberal mantras: liberalising services markets dismantling several important non-tariff barriers (social and environmental standards), will fully exempt european exporters of industrial and fishery products destined for ecuador from customs duties .
but also our small banana producers in the face of the giant chiquita which practices environmental dumping and land grabbing.
high customs duties are abolished, service markets are liberalised, pgi are protected, public procurement is open, with environmental and labour standards imposed.
high customs duties are abolished, service markets are liberalised, pgi are protected, public procurement is open, with environmental and labour standards imposed.
i am particularly keen to defend the economy of these territories, which are subject to unique social, environmental and regional factors.
ecuador had good reason to leave the negotiating table in 2010. the country's ambition was to move from an economy based on exporting raw materials to a high value-added economy based on innovation and renewable energy.
the agreement also provides for conservation and management measures to promote sustainable fishing in this area.
the agreement includes provisions for the sustainable management of fisheries in this area and control measures in line with the principles of coastal state jurisdiction.
considering that this agreement ensures the rational exploitation and sustainable management of fish stocks in this international fishing area and that it will provide new opportunities for european fishermen, i voted in favour of this report.
it stresses in particular the better integration of the objectives of sustainable fisheries management with the introduction of the landing obligation and the maintenance of stocks above levels that allow maximum sustainable yield to be achieved.
the agreement includes provisions for the sustainable management of fisheries in this area and control measures in line with the principles of coastal state jurisdiction.
considering that this agreement ensures the rational exploitation and sustainable management of fish stocks in this international fishing area and that it will provide new opportunities for european fishermen, i voted in favour of this report.
our industry is suffering from unfair international competition, exacerbated by social, environmental and monetary dumping, particularly by emerging countries.
however, the regulation in question was no longer in line with the current legal environment and therefore had to be repealed.
‒ the railway sector is a major challenge in europe, and particularly in france, from an economic and environmental point of view.
that is why my colleagues and i have ensured that the railway package does not create a wild competitive environment.
‒ the railway sector is a major challenge in europe, and particularly in france, from an economic and environmental point of view.
the public transport service must instead be placed at the heart of a policy of ecological transition.
these two advances guarantee the sustainability of public services, territorial cohesion and access to rail infrastructure for all.
another objective is obviously to combat global warming... this 'governance' report aims at separating the activities of the operator and the manager by eliminating the double-caps of operator and manager (which would encourage conflicts of interest).
while i am in favour of harmonising railway technical regulations, i am nevertheless opposed to the introduction of governance of railway infrastructure which risks limiting the opening of the market for national services in this sector and strengthening the sustainability of national monopolies.
‒ the railway sector is a major challenge in europe, and particularly in france, from an economic and environmental point of view.
another objective is obviously to combat global warming... this 'governance' part of the railway package aims at separating the activities of the operator and the manager by eliminating the double operator-manager cap (which would encourage conflicts of interest).
the requirement to comply with the applicable national social and environmental standards is included in this text, but, in essence, we regret that more attention has not been paid to the issue of workers' rights in this sector.
the possibility of limiting the number of port service providers for several reasons, such as the scarcity of sea area, the characteristics of port traffic and the environmental conditions of the port, also represents a new protection.
in other words, this text would give ever more responsibility to unelected bureaucrats who, by ideology (alliance of financial ultra-liberalism and ecological ayatollahs), failed to protect our coal and steel industries, and this while china was automatically granted the precious "market economy status" on 11 december 2016, in accordance with article 15 of the protocols of its admission to the wto 15 years earlier.
‒ the report aims to give the commission full powers to manage the frca programme on its own and to introduce ever more liberalism and ever more ecological constraints.
the research funded covers production processes, resource use and conservation, environmental improvements and workplace safety in the sectors concerned.
i am voting for this text, although i regret that environmental aspects are not given more prominence.
in other words, more and more responsibility for the unelected bureaucrats who, by ideology (alliance of financial ultra-liberalism and ecological ayatollahs), failed to protect our coal and steel industries... while china will automatically be granted, on 11 december 2016, the precious "market economy status", in accordance with article 15 of the protocols of its admission to the wto on 11 december 2001. this is further confirmation that, far from allowing the emergence of any europe-power, the european union has organised the collective impotence of the nations of europe.
in other words, it is a matter of giving ever more responsibility to unelected bureaucrats who, by ideology (an alliance of ultra-liberal finance and ecological ayatollahs), have failed to protect our coal and steel industries from extra-community competition.
as regards women, the report suggests that measures against gender-based violence in the digital environment should be extended.
i therefore call for the effective implementation of the eu global strategy presented by the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, federica mogherini, in june 2016. in addition, we need to build resilience and address the root causes of instability and irregular and forced migration, such as armed conflict, poverty or climate change.
the viability and sustainability of our operations depends mainly on the immediate cessation of any new tariff concessions granted under the free trade agreement and the lifting of the russian embargo.
‒ the volatility of agricultural commodity prices threatens the sustainability of european agriculture and exposes farmers to unacceptable precariousness.
the report also suggests creating real tools for managing climate, health and economic risks, such as sectoral mutual funds and insurance mechanisms.
there can be no double standards, and if we want greece to be an example in respecting the budgetary rule, we must give it the means to be an example in respecting social democracy, otherwise there will be no return to the climate of confidence.
commissioner, tell the president of the commission that it is time to allow greece to recover all the tools that will re-create the climate of confidence and investment that greece and we ourselves so badly need.
however, this year we have seen a steady increase in the number of austerity reforms: on 9 may two reforms (pensions and income tax) were implemented, which led to the discontent of the greek people; at the end of may, an increase in vat and the creation of new taxes (residence taxes, for example) were on the agenda; at the end of september, these reforms concerned the reorganisation of the energy market and further privatisations; today, wages, social benefits and tax increases are bringing the greek people into the streets.
it was a waste!
considering that, in a context of globalisation and global warming, it is necessary to strengthen protection against health hazards that could devastate our european crop production, i voted in favour of this objection.
the commission is due to publish a report on the implementation of the 2006 paediatric medicines regulation in 2017 and it is essential that it allows for the establishment of a favourable environment for paediatric research.
it is noted that the majority of petitioners submit complaints concerning the environment, justice, the internal market, fundamental rights and transport.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the statistics thus compiled show that the concerns of european citizens relate to the environment, animal protection, justice, the internal market and fundamental rights.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
this resolution rightly provides for technical and scientific collaboration between the eu and the other parties in reducing greenhouse gas emissions from aircraft, which are increasingly contributing to global warming.