and whilst i, and everybody else, want a proper, sustainable commercial sector, we are massively underestimating the power of recreational sea angling to bring good – not just economically, but also the environmental benefit of our stocks not being hammered in the same way.
we want an end to one-off laboratory tested type approval and we want to bring real-world driving emissions testing in as soon as possible.
people in europe with respiratory problems caused by pollution deserve that.
madam president, the committee whose decision we are here discussing took that decision on the same day that we as a parliament took a very clear decision for ambitious targets with national emissions.
we have known since 2006, but there has been a discrepancy between laboratory tests and real world emissions.
indeed, the commission itself acknowledged this in 2011. we cannot have a situation where, nearly a decade after initial reports, we have to choose between the delay of badly needed real world driving emissions tests and between the standards that have already been decided between this parliament and the commission.
in writing.– the agreement by governments, including the uk, to weaken diesel pollution limits was both legally and morally unjustifiable.
meps must veto this shameful stitch-up and demand stricter pollution limits.
accepting weaker limits would mean stifling the transition to cleaner cars and prolonging deadly air pollution in our cities.
the sharing economy brings huge opportunities and platforms which enable economic growth and help us to address societal issues and even to help solve environmental problems.
mr president, the discussion and vote on this report today is, quite frankly, a complete and utter waste of parliamentary time: not solely because i disagree with many aspects in the creation of this digital single market, but because before this report has even gone to vote, the commission has already been solidly working behind the scenes to create and rush through legislation to achieve its goals.
now the common fisheries policy was introduced in 1972. let us look at that record, look at the way in which, having hoovered up the stocks from the once teeming waters of the north sea, we are now, as we see in this report, having to go further and further afield, exporting the ecological catastrophe and destroying what ought to have been a great renewable resource.
i am pleased that it states that ‘when implementing the recovery plan, the union and member states should pay particular attention to non-industrial fishing activities and to the most artisanal and sustainable gear types, such as traditional traps (“almadrabas”, “tonnare”), which contribute very positively to the rebuilding of tuna stocks, due to their high level of selectivity and low environmental impact in marine ecosystems, and which are valuable in scientific terms.’
in writing.
mr president, i voted against this report while agreeing with the authors that we, as legislators, have a duty to promote an economic environment that is competitive.
on 24 november 2016, the commission responded to my written question on state aid rules, clearly stating that ‘under eu state aid rules, the steel sector can benefit from several categories of aid: r&d and innovation, training, employment and environmental aid can thus contribute to long-term competitiveness of the sector.
moreover member states can also mitigate the effect of higher electricity prices to the sector induced by the eu emissions trading scheme.’ the uk steel industry is in free-fall, the uk government is refusing to pull the parachute open, and soon our entire industry will be irreparably damaged.
by a waiting period for undertakings receiving such funds; stresses that state aid is sometimes necessary in order to guarantee the delivery of services of general economic interest (sgei), including energy, transport and telecommunications; emphasises that state intervention is often the most effective policy tool for guaranteeing the provision of services that are vital to safeguarding economic and social conditions in isolated, remote or outlying regions and islands in the union’.
furthermore, in terms of energy costs, the european single market is less successful than the us internal market, with a price dispersion of 31% compared to 22% in the us.
‒ i supported this report, which is aimed at boosting economic growth, creating sustainable jobs and empowering women.
‒ in voting in favour of this report with my fellow s&d meps, we are working towards boosting economic growth, creating sustainable jobs and empowering women across europe.
‒ along with my socialist colleagues, i voted for this report which is aimed at boosting economic growth, creating sustainable jobs and empowering women.
‒ i voted in favour of the report, as it is aimed at boosting economic growth, creating sustainable jobs and empowering women.
‒ this report is aimed at boosting economic growth, creating sustainable jobs and empowering women.
‒ this report is aimed at boosting economic growth, creating sustainable jobs and empowering women.
‒ this report is aimed at boosting economic growth, creating sustainable jobs and empowering women.
‒ this report is aimed at boosting economic growth, creating sustainable jobs and empowering women.
there was a call to create an eu award for the best project that combats youth employment – this would be a complete waste of money and nothing more than a vanity project for the eu.
there was a call to create an eu award for the best project that combats youth employment – this would be a complete waste of money and nothing more than a vanity project for the eu.
there was a call to create an eu award for the best project that combats youth employment – this would be a complete waste of money and nothing more than a vanity project for the eu.
there was a call to create an eu award for the best project that combats youth employment – this would be a complete waste of money and nothing more than a vanity project for the eu.
the youth employment crisis cannot be solved without the effective and sustainable creation of quality jobs in europe.
there was a call to create an eu award for the best project that combats youth employment – this would be a complete waste of money and nothing more than a vanity project for the eu.
however, the uk government needs to boost jobs, sustainable growth and investment to ensure that there are quality jobs for young people.
so in this climate, i would appeal everyone to be careful about their choice of words.
but that now includes efforts to de—escalate tensions, recognising the fact that europe has common interests with both riyadh and tehran in energy security, conflict resolution and the fight against terrorism, but also common differences on the death penalty, democratic standards, justice on religious minorities and restrictions against women.
when talking about health and safety, i would like to highlight this evening the issue of carbon monoxide.
when a fuel burns, it generally reacts with the surrounding oxygen and produces carbon dioxide.
however, when fuels are unable to burn fully, they produce the dangerous gas known as carbon monoxide, which is poisonous.
i have insisted on certain references to carbon monoxide poisoning in this regulation, and i am happy to see this language reflected in the final text.
in the uk carbon monoxide – often referred to as a silent killer – injures around 200 people per annum, and around 40 of such injuries are fatal.
the case of british children bobby and christi shepherd, who died in 2006 of carbon monoxide poisoning at the louis corcyra beach hotel in corfu as a result of a faulty boiler, has provoked widespread anger and calls for change.
in the absence of further proposals for legislation on hotel safety, labour meps support the review of the 1986 council recommendation and want to see a firm provision for carbon monoxide safety within this revision.
without any new regulation, we want to see specific research provisions on carbon monoxide safety and the use of carbon monoxide detectors.
there is currently also no body which collects pan-european data on carbon monoxide.
i hope that you will agree with me that it is essential to deal with the importance of gas safety and carbon monoxide and that we must take further action.
tonight we have been talking about keeping people safe from gas boilers so that they do not die from carbon monoxide problems, fall off a chairlift when it collapses or die or become injured because of personal protective equipment.
and, as well as a digital single market, we will look to you to quickly move on proposals on capital markets and energy proposals.
for energy, rather than focus on a bureaucratic union, we should be looking to interconnect energy grids, diversify supply and improve energy efficiency and conservation.
we have common rules to protect consumers, to protect workers, to protect the environment and to ensure fair competition.
mr president, europe represents hope for the future of britain, whether it is about trade, protecting workers’ rights, the environment, our security or maintaining a powerful voice in the world.
the commission has proposed continuing to allow 30% of energy in baby foods to come from sugar.
they recommend limiting intake of free sugars to less than 10% of total energy intake and to less than 5% for additional health benefits.
carbon monoxide poisoning kills.
it has contributed considerably to the completion and operation of the single market and it harmonises the conditions for the placing on the market and/or putting into service of appliance burning gaseous fuels covered within its scope with regard to gas safety risks and rational use of energy.
– i voted in favour of this resolution which rejected a commission proposal to allow 30% of the energy in a baby food to be derived from sugar.
the world health organization (who) recommends that less than 10% of a food’s total energy intake should be from free sugars and a further 5% is recommended for additional health benefits.
but with rampant inflation, falling pensions, an average wage of only usd 200 a month and soaring energy prices eating into their salary, who can blame them?
our partnership there gives us the opportunity to start working with our ukrainian friends, to tackle corruption, which is a serious problem in that country, to improve the price of energy available to ordinary citizens, which has gone up as a result of changes there.
we need to make sure that energy poverty does not exist in that country.
we need to support the work that has been done, and is being done, to develop a free and open political environment and to achieve social cohesion.
they have the potential to be of a very high quality with a strong, sustainable development chapter providing a template for the wider asia-pacific region and, given australia’s experience in particular with investment, i think they should prove very sympathetic to tackling the flaws in the existing investor-state dispute system and that gives us an opportunity to have a high-quality investment chapter in this agreement.
the agreement enhances eu-kosovo political dialogue and trade relations, and fosters closer cooperation in many sectors, including energy, the environment, and justice and home affairs.
the agreement enhances eu-kosovo political dialogue and trade relations, and fosters closer cooperation in many sectors, including energy, the environment, and justice and home affairs.
furthermore, it creates opportunities for enhancing contacts between people and experts in sectors such as education, environment, culture and the combatting of crime and trafficking, and it foresees a further strengthening of relations and cooperation with neighbouring countries, thus contributing to stability in the region.
this agreement creates the groundwork for extended cooperation between the eu and kosovo in a variety of sectors including education, energy, the environment and justice, while also providing assistance in the critical area of human rights development.
i do not agree with the report when it suggests that ‘climate change’ is a major cause of the current refugee crisis.
but i see parallels here with the eu’s intrusive and distorting energy policy.
prices are distorted by subsidies and by the eu’s emissions trading scheme.
we were told that sustainable development and human rights would be strengthened in the eu trade deals.
and yet, here we are tonight debating a trade deal with west africa in which sustainable development has undoubtedly been sidelined.
when it comes to human rights, labour and the environment, implementation is absolutely key.
instead of a detailed chapter on social and environmental standards such as we have in cariforum, the west africa agreement makes heavy reference back to cotonou.
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, this mid-term review could not be clearer: unless member states step up their efforts to better deliver and enforce legislation in the eu, we will once again fail to meet our biodiversity targets for 2020 – just like we did in 2010. given this worrying trend, we cannot afford to waste time by opening up our legislation, which is recognised globally to be the gold standard in environmental protection, as it protects our biodiversity – namely, the birds and habitats directive.
these sites generate environmental and socio-economic benefits worth around eur 300 billion annually.
revising the directives now would lead to years of legal uncertainty and would further divert us from reaching our biodiversity targets.
protecting biodiversity makes economic sense too.
if we miss our overall biodiversity targets, it is estimated that this will cost eur 50 billion per year in lost natural services, never mind the risks of destroying the biosphere and permanently damaging the life-sustaining forces on our continent.
will you commit here today to working with the council to ensure better delivery of the regulations which protect our biodiversity?
will you, commissioner, propose without delay an eu legal framework of environmental inspections and access to justice for those who are working to protect our treasured biodiversity?
i understand you share this parliament’s frustrations, but these are steps that europe can and must take to ensure we meet our biodiversity targets.
we do not trust the unelected european commission to decide on the protection of the environment and animal welfare.
as for climate change, i would suggest that currently in the uk, the greatest risk to wildlife is the unprecedented demand for housing as a direct result of population growth and migration into the uk, which is seeing our beautiful green and pleasant land rapidly disappearing under tarmac and concrete.
madam president, of course i completely support the richness of biodiversity in my constituency, in the united kingdom and indeed across europe.
madam president, the north sea has the potential to become a central plank of the eu’s energy union: a real northern powerhouse.
offshore wind and other renewables, better interconnection through a meshed electricity grid, and joint research cooperation around the north sea could help ensure low-cost, secure and clean energy, while creating and maintaining thousands of high-quality jobs – including in my constituency in the north-east of england.
last month, colleagues from five political groupings and i presented the dutch minister for the economy with an action plan for energy for the north sea.
undeclared work also undermines the sustainability of public finances and social security systems, as no taxes or contributions are paid on undeclared activities.
look at the uk’s green deal: a 5% vat rate on energy-saving materials.
the recommendation accepted amendments to the 1998 protocol of the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution.
the european union’s policies on energy and climate have already caused irreparable damage to the united kingdom’s industry and economy.
‒ i fully supported the ratification of this recommendation, which is an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution.
‒ i supported the ratification of the amendment, as it is an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution.
‒ i supported the ratification of the amendment, as it is an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution.
‒ the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution is intended to protect the human environment against air pollution.
problems caused by air pollution therefore need to be addressed on the international level.
it has created the framework for controlling and reducing the damage to human health and to the environment caused by transboundary air pollution.
‒ i supported the ratification of the amendment on heavy metals to the 1998 protocol to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution, because i see it as an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution.
‒ my labour colleagues and i support the ratification of the amendment, which is an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution.
‒ i believe in the importance of improving air pollution not just in europe but across the world.
the european union’s policies on energy and climate have already caused irreparable damage to the united kingdom’s industry and economy.
i abstained on this proposal as i agree with the aim to improve air pollution in europe but i believe that this legislation will not achieve this.
‒ i supported this recommendation, which is an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution.
‒ i supported the ratification of the amendment, as it is an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution.
‒ i supported the ratification of the amendments, as they constitute an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution.
‒ the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution is intended to protect the human environment against air pollution.
problems caused by air pollution therefore need to be addressed on the international level.
it has created the framework for controlling and reducing the damage to human health and to the environment caused by transboundary air pollution.
this amendment pertaining to long-range transboundary air pollution on persistent organic pollutants represents an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the envrionment from transboundary air pollution.
‒ labour meps support the ratification of the amendment, which is an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution.
however only the elected and accountable national governments should be able to take such decisions – unelected eu bureaucrats have no right to waste taxpayer’s money on such vanity projects.
however only the elected and accountable national governments should be able to take such decisions – unelected eu bureaucrats have no right to waste taxpayer’s money on such vanity projects.
however, only the elected and accountable national governments should be able to take such decisions – unelected eu bureaucrats have no right to waste taxpayers’ money on such vanity projects.
however, only the elected and accountable national governments should be able to take such decisions – unelected eu bureaucrats have no right to waste taxpayers’ money on such vanity projects.
however, only the elected and accountable national governments should be able to take such decisions – unelected eu bureaucrats have no right to waste taxpayers’ money on such vanity projects.
however, only the elected and accountable national governments should be able to take such decisions – unelected eu bureaucrats have no right to waste taxpayers’ money on such vanity projects.
however only the elected and accountable national governments should be able to take such decisions – unelected eu bureaucrats have no right to waste taxpayers’ money on such vanity projects.
however, only the elected and accountable national governments should be able to take such decisions – unelected eu bureaucrats have no right to waste taxpayers’ money on such vanity projects.
however, only the elected and accountable national governments should be able to take such decisions – unelected eu bureaucrats have no right to waste taxpayers’ money on such vanity projects.
however, only the elected and accountable national governments should be able to take such decisions – unelected eu bureaucrats have no right to waste taxpayers’ money on such vanity projects.
it is imperative that the idea of reducing red tape is not used to mask the cutting of vital environmental protection.
as part of the fitness check, a public consultation on the benefits of the directives was launched and over 100 000 citizens from the uk alone spoke up in favour of environmental laws stemming from european cooperation.
the habitats and birds directives have a large and visible impact in securing biodiversity in scotland.
we do not trust the unelected eu commission to decide on the protection of the environment and animal welfare.
the eu has caused irreparable damage with its environmental policy.
we do not trust the unelected eu commission to decide on the protection of the environment and animal welfare.
the eu has caused irreparable damage with its environmental policy.
– we voted in favour of this report on the mid-term review of the 2020 biodiversity strategy.
given the very sorry state of biodiversity in europe we were extremely pleased to see cross-party support for strong demands to protect nature.
we were particularly pleased to see a call for no new authorisations for hydraulic fracturing operations across europe given the risks and negative climate, environmental and biodiversity impacts involved in the fracking process.
however, the eu environmental policies have caused irreparable damage to our fish stocks, caused great damage to our agriculture industry and caused widespread deforestation.
this report uses the 'precautionary principle' to block progress and innovative technology that could possibly help maintain our environment.
we do not trust the unelected eu commission to decide on the protection of the environment and animal welfare.
the eu has caused irreparable damage with its environmental policy.
we do not trust the unelected eu commission to decide on the protection of the environment and animal welfare.
the eu has caused irreparable damage with its environmental policy.
we do not trust the unelected eu commission to decide on the protection of the environment and animal welfare.
the eu has caused irreparable damage with its environmental policy.
we do not trust the unelected eu commission to decide on the protection of the environment and animal welfare.
the eu has caused irreparable damage with its environmental policy.
‒ i support the push to halt the loss of biodiversity by 2020, especially the efforts to restore ecosystems in so far as is feasible, which both benefits the landscape and helps protect endangered species.
for this reason, labour meps voted in favour of the environment committee’s report on the mid-term review of the eu’s biodiversity strategy.
‒ i welcome this report, which calls on member states to show more ambition in fully implementing the eu biodiversity strategy.
– the uk conservative delegation supports eu aims to halt the loss of biodiversity by 2020 and fully supports the report’s calls for greater ambition and effort in the implementation and enforcement of the nature directives.
however, the delegation believes that the report’s position on gmos, the use of neonicotinoids and the practice of hydraulic fracking does not adequately reflect the science, and could result in restrictions on certain practices and products without adequate evidence of risk to the environment.
‒ i voted for this resolution, which ‘emphasises that biodiversity loss has devastating economic costs for society, which until now have not been integrated sufficiently into economic and other policies; considers it vital to recognise that investing in biodiversity is essential from a socio-economic point of view; notes that one in six jobs in the eu depends to some extent on nature and biodiversity; stresses that biodiversity has significant potential to create new skills, jobs and business opportunities; welcomes methods for measuring the economic value of biodiversity; considers that these instruments can raise awareness, improve the use of available resources and result in better decision-making’.
the rspb rightly insists the existing framework is absolutely vital for europe to meet biodiversity targets and, rather than being weakened, should be fully enforced and implemented.
we do not trust the unelected eu commission to decide on the protection of the environment and animal welfare.
the eu has caused irreparable damage with its environmental policy.
‒ i voted for this resolution, which ‘emphasises that biodiversity loss has devastating economic costs for society, which until now have not been integrated sufficiently into economic and other policies; considers it vital to recognise that investing in biodiversity is essential from a socio-economic point of view; notes that one in six jobs in the eu depends to some extent on nature and biodiversity; stresses that biodiversity has significant potential to create new skills, jobs and business opportunities; welcomes methods for measuring the economic value of biodiversity; considers that these instruments can raise awareness, improve the use of available resources and result in better decision-making’.
for this reason, labour meps voted in favour of the environment committee’s report on the mid-term review of the eu’s biodiversity strategy.
‒ i welcome the commission's target to halt loss of biodiversity by 2020. biodiversity is critical to both our environmental and economic well-being.
strengthening the existing mechanism will enable a more cohesive measurement of the economic value biodiversity can offer.
i acknowledge agriculture has an inherent role to play in conserving biodiversity.
yet we must be cautious to ensure that the targets set out establish a complementary relationship between biodiversity and agriculture rather than a conflicting one.
we do not trust the unelected eu commission to decide on the protection of the environment and animal welfare.
the eu has caused irreparable damage with its environmental policy.
we do not trust the unelected eu commission to decide on the protection of the environment and animal welfare.
the eu has caused irreparable damage with its environmental policy.
we do not trust the unelected eu commission to decide on the protection of the environment and animal welfare.
the eu has caused irreparable damage with its environmental policy.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the full implementation of the nature directives is a necessary precondition to achieve the 2020 biodiversity target.
the protection of the nature directives should ensure that the fitness check is not used as an excuse to water down or weaken the legislation, something which i am committed to and which will safeguard the biodiversity of the greenspaces and rural areas of the west midlands.
‒ i am absolutely committed to protecting the biodiversity of wales.
therefore i was happy to vote in favour of the environment committee’s report on the mid-term review of the eu’s biodiversity strategy.
the biodiversity of wales is far too precious to the people of wales to be risked.
‒ the eu has always promoted higher levels of environmental protections across europe that member states would have been unable to provide on their own.
part of the drive towards sustainability must run through guaranteeing the protection of our natural habitats both within member states and across borders.
the natural environment is part of our rich cultural heritage which is of concern to me as a member of the committee on culture.
i also work very closely with environmental organisations who i know will be pleased with our work on the strategy.
this is why i voted in favour of the environment committee’s report on the mid-term review of the eu’s biodiversity strategy.
it is the perfect environment for the criminal gangs to act with impunity.
being part of the eu is better for britain under all circumstances: better for our prosperity, our security and our environment.
they want europe to be the engine of science and technology and innovation, driving the world to a cleaner and more sustainable future.
the environment knows no borders and eu cooperation is essential to protecting our shared heritage.
the european union is a beacon to the rest of the world on standards of environmental protection, animal welfare and employment rights.
there is nothing on agriculture, fishing, trade and environmental policies.
i believe, and my party believes, that remaining in the eu is in the best interest of britain’s economy and security: it is good for jobs, workplace rights and the environment.
they benefit from jobs, from rights in those jobs – like the right to paid holiday – from protection of our environment, tackling tax avoidance, dealing with climate change and protecting our security.
the commission needs to make a proposal which includes a greater assessment of the environmental impact of gmos.
‒ i voted in favour of this objection, because i believe - like my other socialist colleagues in the chamber today - that the commission needs to come forward with a new proposal for genetically modified organisms used in food and feed, one which more thoroughly assesses the environmental impacts of the gmos.
‒ i voted in favour of the motion to object to the commission’s authorising decisions in order to express opposition to authorisation of these particular varieties of gm soybean and to call on the commission to live up to its obligation to update the annexes to directive 2001/18/ec by 3 april 2017 as regards the environmental risk assessment of gmos, in line with parliament’s vote of 13 january 2015. with this decision i, along with other labour meps, voted for a fully informed and scientifically guided decision-making process with regards to gmos that responds to public expectations.
the commission needs to make a proposal which includes a greater assessment of the environmental impact of gmos.
‒ i voted in favour of this objection, because i believe – like my other socialist colleagues in the chamber today – that the commission needs to come forward with a new proposal for genetically modified organisms used in food and feed, one which more thoroughly assesses the environmental impacts of the gmos.
‒ i voted in favour of the motion to object to the commission’s authorising decisions in order to express opposition to authorisation of these particular varieties of gm soybean and to call on the commission to live up to its obligation to update the annexes to directive 2001/18/ec by 3 april 2017 as regards the environmental risk assessment of gmos, in line with parliament’s vote of 13 january 2015. with this decision i, along with other labour meps, voted for a fully informed and scientifically guided decision-making process with regards to gmos that responds to public expectations.
the commission needs to make a proposal which includes a greater assessment of the environmental impact of gmos.
‒ i voted in favour of the motion to object to the commission’s authorising decisions in order to express opposition to authorisation of these particular varieties of gm soybean and to call on the commission to live up to its obligation to update the annexes to directive 2001/18/ec by 3 april 2017 as regards the environmental risk assessment of gmos, in line with parliament’s vote of 13 january 2015. with this decision i, along with other labour meps, voted for a fully informed and scientifically guided decision-making process with regards to gmos that responds to public expectations.
madam president, everyone knows that the volkswagen emissions scandal was a disaster for the car industry, but i think we underestimate the extent to which it was also a disaster for the european union.
‒ whilst i do understand some of the concerns of the proposers of this objection resolution i do not think that opposing the real driving emissions (rde) testing proposal is the right answer at this time.
the introduction of rde tests for new cars as proposed by the technical committee on motor vehicles will bring clear reductions in nox emissions and improve air quality.
current european car emissions tests remain unchanged in almost thirty years and it is critical that we in the european parliament endorse this latest step towards improving the testing regime.
‒ along with my labour colleagues, i strongly support the swift introduction of real driving emissions (rde) testing so that emission tests for cars reflect pollution emitted on the road and not just in laboratories.
‒ labour meps strongly support the swift introduction of real driving emissions (rde) testing so that emission tests for cars reflect pollution emitted on the road and not just in laboratories.
‒ labour meps strongly support the swift introduction of real driving emissions (rde) testing so that emission tests for cars reflect pollution emitted on the road and not just in laboratories.
i believe that the introduction of rde tests for new cars as proposed here will bring clear reductions in nox emissions and improve air quality; therefore it would not be the right response to delay the introduction of rde testing by months or possibly even years.
it is our responsibility to ensure that international trade puts people and planet before profit, and that it raises standards globally, leading to real growth which is sustainable and inclusive, and trade that is fair for all.
gender equality is not only an end in itself but an essential component in promoting fair and sustainable economic growth.
gender equality is not only an end in itself but a key component in promoting fair and sustainable economic growth.
we cannot create fair and sustainable economic growth without gender equality at all levels of our society.
gender equality is not only an end in itself but a key component in promoting fair and sustainable economic growth.
and, as the report highlights, serbia also needs to focus on other concerns and sectors, for example the education system, promoting work and training for young people, respecting the rights of workers, development of the public transport system, and respecting its environmental and energy commitments.
i am under no illusions; we must see a relative and sustainable peace in libya in order to further our goal of negotiating a fair financial settlement for these innocent victims.
we therefore welcome the mauritius convention at the un level on new minimum standards, which we believe apply to existing member states’ bits, as well as to the energy charter.
we are calling for the council to authorise the union to sign the convention as soon as possible so that it can apply to the energy charter immediately.
on sustainable energy resources, island communities have huge potential.
if europe is to meet its sustainability targets, we must help our islands to harness this potential.
scottish islands, with the biggest coastal exposure to the atlantic in the uk, have some of the best renewable energy opportunities in the world.
it looks at ways to meet those needs in order to ensure sustainable development and integration by better targeted use of eu policy to ensure economic viability, the supply of necessary public services and better connectivity and accessibility of islands with nearby regions.
‒ today, i voted in favour of this resolution because european islands contribute to the diversity of the union in both environmental terms (specific habitats and endemic species) and cultural terms (languages, architectural heritage, sites, landscapes, agricultural and non-agricultural features and geographical identities).
this resolution also helps european islands to strengthen sustainable development in the union, given their high potential for producing energy from renewable sources due to specific exposure to wind streams, ocean swell and sunlight.
the resolution is also accurate in its attention to the many challenges facing eu local and regional authorities, from energy security to administrative capacity, red tape and complexity in public procurement.
therefore it is important that the commission provides support to regional and local authorities in order to strengthen their role and impact in managing esi funds, with the aim of creating economic growth and sustainable jobs.
i voted in favour of the report, as it calls to strengthen their role and impact in managing eu funds, with the aim of creating economic growth and sustainable jobs.
talks including stakeholders from yemen, the wider region and the international community have to be convened urgently in order to find a sustainable solution to the conflict.
we will be making a positive case about britain’s place in the world and about the fact that, on everything from the environment to the economy, britain is stronger when working together with its european partners.
we are talking about how to build a strong and sustainable economy and thriving communities, and for me the messages go hand—in—hand.
climate change, the pollution of our oceans, terrorism and the refugee crisis show no respect for borders and require collaborative and cooperative solutions.
businesses know that access to the world’s largest single market far outweighs any free trade deals, but the work of the eu is so much more – it is migration, climate change, terrorists – all these.
‒ this report highlights the importance of social and environmental indicators being taken seriously in the correction of economic balances.
at the same time, a second generation of reforms needs to take place, improving education, innovation, public administration, tax collection and ensuring sustainable and fair welfare systems which reduce social inequalities.
‒ it is important to continuously reiterate the call for a strong social dimension to the european semester and country-specific recommendations, in order to arrive at growth which is truly inclusive and sustainable.
instead, structural reforms must entail meaningful change towards delivering a higher quality of social services to those who need them most, and enabling effective social investment and financing to stimulate inclusive and sustainable growth.
likewise i support the report’s mention of the importance of the social economy, and reiterate the role that cooperatives, mutuals and similar alternative business models can play in stimulating inclusive and sustainable growth.
i favoured amendments focused on the need to make the single market compatible with the localisation of economic activities, investments in the green economy, public authorities’ right to regulate in the public interest, and high social and environmental standards in public procurement.
and i would like to see the strengthening of ties of the anglophone peoples of the world with the eu and join my s&d colleagues in calling for strong trade and sustainable development chapters in any newly-launched trade negotiations with these countries.
as the children drive to school they will see gratitude plaques in the fields – the farmers have their environmental schemes – and then they go into school and there are more gratitude plaques, and this is all going to happen during our referendum campaign about british membership of the european union.
mr president, the regulation of veterinary medicines is important to ensure their safety, quality and effectiveness and therefore protect animal health, public health, food safety and the environment.
these could help improve standards in the sector, in the uk and across the whole of europe, on port safety and security, terms and conditions of workers, environmental protection, as well as provide a secure framework for investment.
ports will not specifically also be required to consult environmental experts and local communities.
it is clear that maritime transport, to which ports are vital, plays a crucial role in achieving greater sustainability in the transport sector.
the greens’ political objective is to embed seaports into the wider framework of a sustainable transport policy that addresses safety, social and environmental standards, incorporates cross-border cooperation and coordination between seaports and aims to account for external costs.
unfortunately it seems clearly to fail to meet its own objectives of ensuring a more sustainable and interconnected transport network.
there is no recognition of environmental requirements – all the references to environmental assessment, bird life, habitat, natura 2000, etc., were deleted.
i think we have to heed the warnings of the european towage association, which predicts environmental catastrophe.
in response to honourable members taylor, delli and šoltes, allow me to highlight again the benefits the regulation brings for the environment.
the internalised external cause the regulation will serve to develop a method for varying port charges according to the environmental performance of the ships.
but the regulatory environment must work for both businesses and consumers.
big data also brings big benefits for health with next-generation medicines, for the environment by saving energy and reducing waste, and can help make our public services more efficient.
this new crossing will increase pollution above domestic and eu levels, will increase traffic and congestion, breaking thurrock’s road network, and will take away people’s homes.
‒ i voted in favour of the report in order to highlight the positive contribution of the eu and the cap to the development of healthy eating habits among children and the promotion of sustainable local agricultural products.
‒ some great work from my colleague, marc tarabella, on this report: it really highlights the positive contribution that the common agricultural policy can have in the development of healthy eating for children, and it promotes sustainable, local agricultural products.
it highlights the positive contribution of the eu and the cap to development of healthy eating habits among children and promotion of sustainable local agricultural products.
my reservations about the latest proposals are that they fail to recognise the diversity of the port sector in the eu and they have equally failed to mitigate the environmental impact of ports.
madam president, i voted against the port service package today, as there are few tangible benefits for north-east ports, their workers or the environment.
the proposed legislation has missed the opportunity to include strong employment and environmental provisions, and labour meps will continue to work with the uk’s ports industry and trade unions to oppose this unnecessary legislation.
‒ i voted to reject the commission’s proposal for an eu port services regulation as the proposed legislation includes few tangible benefits for the port sector, its workers or the environment.
the violations must stop in order to create a favourable environment for the start of negotiations.
we must not waste this chance; this needs to be the year in which the bloodshed in syria comes to an end.
not just of legislating, but potentially of the cost of not legislating, costs on the consumer, costs on public health and therefore on public budgets, costs to the environment, costs to the way our competition policies work.
‒ i voted in favour of this codification of the directive relating to a reduction in the sulphur content of certain liquid fuels, as it contains a straightforward codification of the existing texts without any changes in their substance, and the subject of the directive contributes to our need to have better air quality and reduce pollution.
in addition, we have a number of concerns with the proposed financial transaction tax, environmental tax, etc.
more needs to be done within current budget ceilings, and spending must be prioritised and redirected towards boosting sustainable growth and employment, and dealing with the refugee crisis.
the european fund for strategic investments also holds great promise and is being used in the uk to boost investment in key energy infrastructure.
labour meps have argued and continue to argue that more needs to be done within current budget ceilings, and that spending must be prioritised and redirected towards boosting sustainable growth and employment, and dealing with the refugee crisis.
labour meps have argued and continue to argue that more needs to be done within current budget ceilings, and that spending must be prioritised and redirected towards boosting sustainable growth and employment, and dealing with the refugee crisis.
the european fund for strategic investments also holds great promise and is being used in the uk to boost investment in key energy infrastructure.
we – labour meps – have continually argued that more needs to be done and can be done within the current budget ceilings and that spending must be prioritised and redirected towards boosting sustainable growth and employment and dealing with the refugee crisis.
more needs to be done within current ceilings and spending needs to be clearly prioritised towards boosting sustainable growth and employment, as well as dealing with the refugee crisis.
i welcome the fact that impact assessments will take social and environmental – as well as economic – factors into account.
‒ i voted against the extension of an agreement with philip morris, as changes in the market and regulatory environment mean it is no longer the best means to continue the fight against illicit tobacco.
secondly, minister, you said that the money will go to tackle poverty, but 87% of the funding is due to be allocated to energy projects – but to whom is the money going?
accession negotiations with macedonia have been stalled now for far too long, and we should not waste any more time in beginning what will be another lengthy process.
i also welcome the recent opening of two negotiation chapters with the eu on transport and energy, giving a new boost to our relations with this important neighbour.
the commission is right to stress the importance of product availability and simpler administrative procedures without sacrificing the principles of public health and the protection of the environment.
we need to see an environment where this sector can innovate and develop the best medicinal products possible.
we must always keep at the forefront of our minds that the banking and financial services industry is exactly that: a service for the real economy, that must result in inclusive and sustainable growth.
in some cases there is resistance, and that is why we have a sustainable use directive which lays out very clearly for farmers exactly how products such as glyphosate should be used and, if resistance is detected, what steps they should take.
mr president, this house has a duty to ensure that public food is safe and that the environment is responsibly managed, and we must take those responsibilities very seriously indeed.
labour has put forward a clear four-point plan for the steel industry, including stabilising the industry and providing security for steelworkers, initiating a review into lowering costs like business and energy rates, fast-tracking infrastructure projects requiring large amounts of steel and engaging with the sector to lay out a long-term strategy for the future of the uk steel industry.
if you believe that farmers can improve the world’s weather by reducing co2 emissions from their farms, you will have scored a massive own-goal here if you vote for this tomorrow, because you will pump out co2 from all these tractor operations to try and control perennial weeds of twitch and thistles and the new weed we are all getting now called black grass.
but what he can and must do is find ways to help the industry become more productive, more competitive and more sustainable.
the epas raise a number of concerns, in particular in terms of sustainable development and the role of civil society.
moreover, it aims to promote the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and a responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in greenland’s fishing zone.
the report contained some very positive provisions such as an emphasis on sustainable fishing practices having to be promoted in order to safeguard long-term productivity.
the background of the report is based on recommendations made to the un general assembly in 2015 regarding the creation of a legally-binding instrument which would come under the auspices of the ‘united nations convention on the law of the sea’ which seeks to promote the conservation of marine biodiversity and sustainable usage of marine resources, it also acknowledges the negative impact that the rapid growth and expansion of marine activities (industrial fishing, marine drilling, shipping, etc.)
on the marine environment across the globe.
‒ in waters outside of national jurisdictions, or the ‘high seas,’ the united nations (un) is responsible for environmental sustainability and conservation through two international agreements, one of which – the un convention on the law of the sea (unclos) – is an international, legally-binding framework.
illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, mineral exploitation and energy drilling, and pollution and marine litter are all damaging marine habitats and ecosystems.
the eu has an important position in securing the sustainable management of marine resources in the high seas.
i voted in favour of this report as i hope that demonstrating support for the unclos will help find international solutions for this environmental degradation and demonstrate the eu’s commitment to global environmental issues.
‒ i voted in favour of this report, as while there is considerable potential for jobs and growth in the marine sector, it is also one that requires protection and balance in terms of working within the sector’s ecological capacities.
‒ the un addressed the importance of protecting the waters of the world in the paper that was published as a result of the rio de janeiro, brazil, un conference on environment & development that took place on 3-14 june 1992, called agenda 21. this showed that the international community was acknowledging the necessity of an international approach in order to manage pollution and increasing dangers to marine biodiversity.
this was followed by the johannesburg declaration on sustainable development and the plan of implementation which were agreed upon during the un world summit in south africa, on 2-4 september 2002. in 2012, in the document published as a result of the latest un conference on sustainable development held in rio de janeiro, called rio+20 as a link to the first rio agenda, the international community restated its determination in tackling the environmental problems and the need for sustainable development.
while the potential for growth and jobs in this sector is enormous, it should be used within the ecological limits of the marine environment.
at committee level, the report was broadened to also cover conservation of rare breeds, thereby protecting biodiversity.
the report’s policy recommendations did not therefore offer a sensible or sustainable solution to the current crisis europe is facing.
the seemingly unending bloodshed in syria, as well as global issues of poverty and climate change have brought us face-to-face with a very real challenge.
the refugee crisis has shown that the current eu approach to migration is not sustainable.
we should of course look to cut red tape wherever possible, and it is vital to my constituents in wales that practices are efficient, transparent and accountable, but the deregulation agenda lobbied by business interests puts the well—being of people and the environment at risk.
we reiterate the importance of consumer, environmental, social, health and safety standards.
we support more flexible rules for smes, but only if the internal market and ensuring social, ecological and economic objectives are not undermined.
finally our resolution recognises that four members of the high level group of independent stakeholders – associations of professionals, environmental, consumer and health representatives – issued a dissenting opinion that there should be a better understanding of the case for appropriate regulation.
references to consumer, social and environmental objectives as criteria to guide fitness checks, impact assessments and evaluation processes of current and future eu legislation were absent from the initial draft report and had to be introduced by my group via 15 plenary amendments, which were sadly lost.
the report contained some positive provisions such as a call for the inclusion of worker and consumer rights in addition to considering environmental and socio-economic considerations.
it does not take social and environmental indicators into account and does not put enough emphasis on workers’ rights.
‒ i voted against this report, which contained several controversial elements and which was missing references to consumer, social and environmental objectives as criteria to guide fitness checks, impact assessments and evaluation processes of current and future eu legislation.
‒ labour meps are in favour of having more streamlined eu legislation and members states’ prerogatives, with due consideration given to the advantages of harmonised eu rules on social, workers’, consumer and environmental standards.
i have long argued against overly burdensome regulation in the eu, i therefore welcome this report’s focus on creating a competitive regulatory environment and an efficient single market, which will encourage innovation, production and trade.
especially as there are fundamental differences in terms of the scale of the environmental impact, sustainability and socio-economic interdependence between small-scale fisheries and communities that rely on sustainable non-industrial fishing, whereas industrial vessels and their multinational operators are not concerned with having a symbiotic relationship with any particular coastal community and their surrounding marine environments – their general concern is profiteering and maximising the detrimental exploitation of stocks.
this represents a step towards environmental and economic sustainability for coastal communities.
the s&d group believes in the importance of the further development of socially and environmentally sustainable small-scale and artisanal fishing.
‒ coastal fishing guarantees a high level of employment in coastal areas and generally represents a socially and environmentally sustainable form of fishing.
furthermore, it is an objective of my group to protect and create jobs in these small-scale and artisanal fisheries, and as coastal fishing guarantees a high level of employment in coastal areas, we can make it into a socially and environmentally sustainable industry.
this includes minimum conditions for bilateral agreements, and a duty to foster cooperation among regional fisheries management organisations (rfmos), not to mention ensuring that the sustainable fisheries agreements with third countries benefit third countries, including their local populations and fisheries sectors, and promoting environmentally, socially and economically sustainable fisheries based on transparency and the participation of non-governmental stakeholders.
within the scope of this report, there are measures relating to cooperation among regional fisheries management organisations (rfmos) and transparency of fisheries partnership agreements; job creation and training in third countries; combating illegal, undeclared and unregulated fishing, as well as promotion of high environmental standards in third countries.
‒ i voted in favour of this report as it uses the best strategy for realising the eu’s objective for promoting sustainable fisheries, which preserves natural areas and helps maintain jobs for the future.
‒ i voted in favour of the report as it calls for promoting sustainable fishing in third countries, to ensure that fishery products imported into the eu are produced under acceptable labour and human rights standards, to keep up pressure on states to combat iuu fishing and to enhance controls.
i voted in favour of this report as it uses the best strategy for realising the eu’s objective for promoting sustainable fisheries, which preserves natural areas for generations.
we stress the international diplomacy necessary to sustain efforts for global climate action, and we reiterate that there is no solution to the challenge of international migration without the first emphasis being on conflict resolution and international development.
the environmental impact of losing glyphosate would be enormous, as would be the effect on food production.
it would also require more cultivation and use of tractors, resulting in increased emissions.
it would also require more cultivation and use of tractors, resulting in increased emissions.
it would also require more cultivation and use of tractors, resulting in increased emissions.
i have received strong lobbying in opposition to glyphosate from my constituents in wales, and until the health and environmental concerns are dealt with, i cannot support its approval.
moreover, the resolution misuses the precautionary principle, dismisses the existing regulatory framework for the sustainable use of pesticides and attempts to forge a link between glyphosate and potential endocrine disrupting properties despite both efsa and the usepa concluding that there is no evidence of such effect.
that is why i voted for this report which will urge the commission to undertake further work to establish the level of any harm to health and the environment that is caused.
following a complex series of votes, with more than 50 conflicting amendments having been tabled, meps have chosen not to endorse the position taken by our environment committee, which had called for an outright ban.
it would also require more cultivation and use of tractors, resulting in increased emissions.
‒ i voted in favour of this motion to send a strong message that the precautionary principle must be strictly observed in the process of authorising chemical substances with direct impacts on humans and the environment.
it would also require more cultivation and use of tractors, resulting in increased emissions.
in addition, the use of glyphosate herbicides kills not only unwanted weeds, but also all plants and algae, bacteria and fungi, thus putting biodiversity and ecosystems at risk.
the commission has also concluded that the use of glyphosate in food is not a risk to human health and the environment.
by refusing to publish all scientific studies on the use of glyphosate, we are putting human health, animal health and the environment at risk.
it would also require more cultivation and use of tractors, resulting in increased emissions.
the labour party in the european parliament holds the position that genetically modified organisms – gmos – must be approached with caution and assessed from the point of view of their impacts on human health and the environment.
moreover, the resolution misuses the precautionary principle, dismisses the existing regulatory framework for the sustainable use of pesticides and attempts to forge a link between glyphosate and potential endocrine disrupting properties, despite both efsa and the usepa concluding that there is no evidence of such effect.
our aim now is to ensure a comprehensive evaluation of this substance with full regard paid to the safety of humans and the environment, in line with the precautionary principle.
– despite the vague name of the report ‘the eu in a changing global environment - a more connected, contested and complex’ the report itself is essentially calling for increased harmonisation, synergy, development and investment for eu military capabilities, and a closer relationship with nato.
in today’s environment, security threats are increasingly transnational in nature.
‒ this report is vague and incoherent and adds little to the general debate on our changing global environment.
‒ i voted in favour of the report which sets out the eu’s foreign policy strategy for the years ahead, noting particular complex and interrelated challenges such as the refugee crisis, state failures and climate change.
‒ i ultimately voted in favour of this report because i think that the eu can play – and has played – a real and positive international role, capable of shaping development and deal with a rapidly changing global environment.
‒ i supported this report, which sets out the eu’s foreign policy strategy for the years ahead, with reference to particularly pertinent challenges such as the refugee crisis, state failures and climate change.
the european union must strive to put peace, human rights, sustainability and social justice at the heart of our developing global governance systems.
i also welcome the eu's strong interest in central asia being peaceful, prosperous, democratic, stable and inclusive and functioning as an economically and environmentally sustainable region, as stated in the 2007 strategy.
‒ i support the deeper engagement with the central asian states by the eu; important security and energy interests are at stake in this region, as well as the potential to expand democratic values otherwise not afforded to the people of this region.
we need a european definition of energy poverty and we need it to include a gender perspective, reflective of the fact that female-headed households are more likely to be energy poor.
we have 15 years to fix that with the new 17 sustainable development goals announced at the united nations last year.
climate change mitigation alone will cost usd 250 billion.
the united nations conference on trade and development projects a funding gap – yes, i repeat, a funding gap – of usd 2.5 trillion for the sustainable development goals.
thirdly, the sustainable development goals will require the drive, the managerial skill and the commitment of our private sector partners, for it is the private sector which creates 90% of jobs and income for poor people in developing countries, alongside donors, civil society and trade partners.
the report reflects the priorities and challenges identified in the 2014 commission communication, ‘a stronger role of the private sector in achieving inclusive and sustainable growth in developing countries’, and in the council conclusions of june and december 2014. the main challenge in our cooperation with developing countries remains achieving inclusive and sustainable growth and creating decent jobs.
this requires sustainable investment to diversify our partners’ economies and link them to global value chains.
we need partnerships that encourage businesses to put sustainability at the core of their strategies and to promote innovative, inclusive business models.
the intervention of the private sector is also crucial for the transformational objectives of the social development goals and the climate change commitments.
the private sector is sending signals that it is ready to work with us to become a true financing and implementing partner in achieving sustainable growth in developing countries.
ms cáceres was a prominent human rights defender, as we all know, and was very well known by the european union for her courageous commitment in defending the environment and the indigenous rights of the lenca community to which she belonged.
‒ any budgetary increase at all is unacceptable in the current economic climate.
‒ i voted against this report as i fundamentally disagree that the budget of the parliament should be increased by 3.9%, particularly in this climate of austerity.
on migration, energy and security, both north towards russia and east towards the continuing violence in syria and northern iraq, as well as in resolving the frozen conflict in the caucasus between armenia and azerbaijan, turkey is an important partner, and it is vital to recognise this.
it called for the eu to create a definition for ‘energy poverty’, calls for investigating the possibility of an eu wide minimum income, wants an eu pillar of social rights and use of various eu funds.
it called for the eu to create a definition for ‘energy poverty’, calls for investigating the possibility of an eu wide minimum income, wants an eu pillar of social rights and use of various eu funds.
it called for the eu to create a definition for ‘energy poverty’, calls for investigating the possibility of an eu wide minimum income, wants an eu pillar of social rights and use of various eu funds.
it called for the eu to create a definition for ‘energy poverty’, calls for investigating the possibility of an eu wide minimum income, wants an eu pillar of social rights and use of various eu funds.
it called for the eu to create a definition for ‘energy poverty’, calls for investigating the possibility of an eu wide minimum income, wants an eu pillar of social rights and use of various eu funds.
the uk, and other member states, must make more efforts to reach the anti-poverty targets: meeting minimum income schemes above 60% of the national median income in all member states, a european energy observatory and a winter heating disconnection moratorium are all essential tools in this respect.
women are more likely to be in precarious employment, so managing household budgets to ensure that children are warm, clothed and fed can be very challenging when energy and other utility costs are high.
that is why a holistic approach to energy policy is required.
‒ in the context of the sustainable development goals signed last year at the un, the world has put forward an ambitious development agenda for the next 15 years with the intention of eliminating poverty and ensuring that no-one gets left behind.
in the context of the sustainable development goals signed last year at the un, the world has put forward an ambitious development agenda for the next 15 years with the intention of eliminating poverty and ensuring that no-one gets left behind.
‒ in the context of the sustainable development goals which were signed at the un last year, the eu – and moreover the world – has committed itself to an ambitious development agenda for the next fifteen years, with the intention of eliminating poverty and ensuring that no-one gets left behind.
‒ in the context of the sustainable development goals signed last year at the un, the global community has put forward an ambitious development agenda for the next 15 years with the intention of eliminating poverty and ensuring that no-one gets left behind.
the loan was to reduce the cost of energy.
one of the main complaints of tata is the high cost of energy in the uk.
another plant, in guangdong, was given eur 35 million in the interests of improving energy efficiency.
it could help us to fund the transition to a renewable energy future, and be a catalyst for making industry more sustainable.
indeed, the parliamentary report includes a green demand to boost investment in sustainable industry.
to stop such destructive investment, we are calling for stronger environmental assessment of projects and a full audit of the skills of eib board members to assess whether they are suitably qualified to make judgments about the environmental impact of projects seeking eib funding.
the report aims to update the rules around interoperability and to make room for the new needs arising from the opening of the market and the expected growth of rail’s share as a mode of transport, notably by clarifying existing rules on the use of technical specifications for interoperability, simplifying the long and costly authorisation procedures for rolling stock, energy and infrastructures and ensuring vehicle interoperability in the eu, through a european vehicle authorisation to be granted by the european railways agency, and the creation of a european register.
‒ whilst there are many parts of the european union that completely fail to function, the court of auditors is generally competent in highlighting the errors, waste, mismanagement and fraud which often underpin the european union budget.
‒ whilst there are many parts of the european union that completely fail to function, the court of auditors is generally competent in highlighting the errors, waste, mismanagement and fraud which often underpin the european union budget.
‒ s&d meps support the agencies in their work – they help to keep our food safe, our environment clean and our planes and flights safer and more secure.
– i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge, which was concerned with the agency for cooperation of energy regulators (acer).
the agency for cooperation of energy regulators provides a great service for the people of the west midlands and this is why i voted in favour!
‒ s&d meps support the agencies in their work - they help to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure.
‒ s&d meps support the agencies in their work - they help to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure.
‒ s&d meps support the agencies in their work – they help to keep our food safe, our environment clean and our planes and flights safer and more secure.
‒ s&d meps support the eu agencies in their work – they help to keep our food safe, our environment clean and our planes and flights safer and more secure.
‒ s&d meps support the agencies in their work - they help to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure.
‒ s&d meps support the agencies in their work - they help to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure.
‒ s&d meps support the agencies in their work – they help to keep our food safe, our environment clean and our planes and flights safer and more secure.
‒ the eba is an important agency in terms of delivering the eu’s policy goals and results, and the eba is important in today’s climate and aids in the stabilisation and growth of europe’s economy.
‒ s&d meps support the agencies in their work – they help to keep our food safe, our environment clean and our planes and flights safer and more secure.
‒ s&d meps support the agencies in their work – they help to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure.
– i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european environment agency (eea).
‒ s&d meps support the agencies in their work - they help to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure.
‒ as one of the biggest positive effects that the eu has had on the world, any promotion and execution of the eu’s environmental policies is vital.
‒ s&d meps support the agencies in their work - they help to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure.
i voted against this report because, despite improvement of its policies on employing people with conflicts of interest, efsa recently appointed the current director of regulation, science and sustainability at the uk industry's trade federation (the food and drink federation), as their director of communications.
‒ s&d meps support the agencies in their work - they help to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure.
‒ s&d meps support the agencies in their work - they help to keep our food safe, our environment clean, our planes and flights safer and more secure; and ensuring gender equality.
‒ s&d meps support the agencies in their work - they help to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure.
‒ s&d meps support the agencies in their work - they help to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure.
‒ s&d meps support the agencies in their work - they help to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure.
‒ s&d meps support the agencies in their work - they help to keep our food safe, our environment clean our planes and flights safer and more secure, or working to ensure safety at sea.
‒ despite not having a coast, the west midlands can still benefit from well looked-after maritime spaces in terms of our diet and the general environment.
my constituency is one where many people move around, and keeping the waterways and seas clean is a must, not just for the pleasure of holidaying west midlanders, but also for the general environmental quality of our waters for fishing, sport and ecosystems.
‒ s&d meps support the agencies in their work - they help to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure.
‒ s&d meps support the agencies in their work – they help to keep our food safe, our environment clean and our planes and flights safer and more secure.
‒ s&d meps support the agencies in their work – they help to keep our food safe, our environment clean and our planes and flights safer and more secure.
‒ s&d meps support the agencies in their work – they help to keep our food safe, our environment clean and our planes and flights safer and more secure.
‒ s&d meps support the agencies in their work – they help to keep our food safe, our environment clean and our planes and flights safer and more secure.
‒ s&d meps support the agencies in their work – they help to keep our food safe, our environment clean and our planes and flights safer and more secure.
‒ s&d meps support the agencies in their work – they help to keep our food safe, our environment clean and our planes and flights safer and more secure.
‒ s&d meps support the agencies in their work – they help to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure.
‒ s&d meps support the agencies in their work – they help to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure.
‒ s&d meps support the agencies in their work – they help to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure.
‒ s&d meps support the agencies in their work – they help to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure.
‒ s&d meps support the agencies in their work – they help to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure.
‒ s&d meps support the agencies in their work – they help to keep our food safe, our environment clean and our planes and flights safer and more secure.
in addition, discussions on viability, the possibility of spread and distribution of this kind of energy, and the cost in comparison with other sustainable and renewable energy sources, were not present.
domains covered include air traffic control, carbon-learn energy and so on.
sinn féin will continue to ensure that projects which are supported by the eib do not contribute to unsustainable development, by fuelling environmental destruction, climate change and depletion of natural resources.
infrastructure and energy projects, which represent an important part of the eib portfolio, have huge potential to cause environmental and social damage.
i am happy that this report seeks to prioritise the promotion of youth employment, innovation and small and medium-sized enterprises, enhance environmental sustainability and action on climate change, to name just a few.
so i know first-hand the positive impact that the eu cohesion policy can have on sustainable economic, social and cultural development of the regions and i am very proud to say that the eu flag is proudly fluttering outside my office in workington town hall today.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, another month, another waste of time, effort and resources coming to strasbourg.
we want the sector to thrive through long-term investment and the creation of quality and sustainable jobs, not through increasingly precarious employment arrangements.
some of it is due to the application of crazy directives about green taxation and carbon emissions, which has caused damage to us.
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, the key challenge we face is to help member states create the right environment for businesses to grow and create new jobs.
legislation which is simpler and easier to understand and implement will help member states create an environment that will encourage companies to hire and manage staff, while protecting basic workers’ rights.
my colleagues and i will continue to work towards an eu policy of truly fair and sustainable trade.
madam president, the reason we are discussing hoovering up somebody else’s fish is because of the ecological calamity created in eu waters by the common fisheries policy, but i would invite the chamber to ponder the common fisheries policy as a symbol of a wider problem, a token or symptom, of a wider problem in europe, and it is the way in which we have elevated the goal of closer integration over any practical concerns.
we see the debacle and the environmental and economic disaster that the common fisheries policy has brought across the european union, and now we wish to export our bad practice to the west coast of africa, or even further.
‒ i voted in favour of this sustainable fisheries partnership agreement (sfpa, the first of its kind between the eu and liberia).
‒ i voted in favour of this agreement, which is the first sustainable fisheries agreement between the eu and liberia.
it also strengthens the partnership framework to further develop a sustainable fisheries policy in liberia.
‒ i voted in favour of this agreement, which is the first sustainable fisheries agreement between the eu and liberia.
the agreement and protocol are in line with the reformed cfp and ensure that the fishing activities of eu vessels in liberian waters are carried out in respect of the principles of sustainability, good governance, transparency, non-discrimination and respect of human rights.
‒ the colossal waste of taxpayers’ money which is provided to this programme every year amounts to eur 6.3 billion – nothing more than outrageous when there are other sectors crying out for assistance.
this sustainable, strategic approach is much needed and is a matter which affects certain areas of rural ireland, especially along the west coast and the northern part of our country.
this report highlights the potential for mountainous regions to contribute to europe 2020 targets, but also how the resources of these areas can create jobs, including many in the green energy sector.
‒ i voted in favour of this report, which emphasises how the mountainous regions of the eu can contribute to important targets, such as europe 2020. in particular, mountainous regions have high potential to provide green jobs which contribute to the fight against climate change.
the rich variety of renewable energy sources could contribute to the eu renewable energy targets.
the report emphasises how the mountainous regions of the eu can contribute to its target, such as europe 2020. the natural resources and assets of these areas can provide jobs to improve employment within the eu, especially green jobs which contribute to the fight against climate change.
the rich variety of renewable energy sources could contribute to the eu renewable energy targets.
this report emphasizes how the mountainous regions of the eu can contribute to its targets, such as europe 2020. the natural resources and assets of these areas can provide jobs to improve employment within the eu, especially green jobs which contribute to the fight against climate change.
the rich variety of renewable energy sources could contribute to the eu renewable energy targets.
i represent a beautiful rural, isolated, mountainous area in the north-west of england – cumbria – and i know first-hand the impact that the eu cohesion policy can bring to sustainable economic, social and cultural development of the regions.
madam president, i would like to congratulate vice-president timmermans on an excellent speech, where he asked us to be comprehensive in dealing with sustainable development and ending poverty.
the 17 sustainable development goals are a great – and very important – comprehensive, sustainable and enjoined effort.
in that regard, i think parliament should also have a further role in scrutinising the work of the un and in the sustainable development goals up to 2030 in the programme that we have devised because it is our european taxpayers’ money that will be used.
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, following nearly two decades of reform, a programme of investment and infrastructure, the establishment of a sustainable social security system and the development of a sovereign wealth fund, the economy continues to grow.
as supermarket shelves lie empty, a two-day week for the public sector workers has been imposed to conserve energy and government hand-outs grind to a halt, the situation in venezuela is dire.
beyond this particular example, regular delays by the relevant authorities in implementing regional ‘operational programmes’, resulting in subsequent payment delays, are a barrier to the full implementation of the cohesion policy, which is so crucial for the sustainable development of eu regions.
– madam president, we need to talk first of all about what we mean by sustainability.
in my book, it is something which is capable of lasting, therefore the issue of ecological transition that was raised by our committee president is extremely important in this; otherwise, we basically use up what we need to sustain ourselves.
it would allow consumers to make informed decisions about the food they buy for a variety of reasons: environmental, animal welfare and, yes, to support their local farmers if that is what they want to do.
instead, the commission should be helping to tackle this food fraud, supporting the new environmental technologies to test food authenticity, such those developed by the university of east anglia, and like the former labour government in my own country, which backed local food hubs in ongar in essex, and woburn in bedfordshire, also in my constituency, the commission should recognise the environmental benefit of local purchasing.
– mr president, i have often argued in this chamber against wind and solar power, so it is refreshing to find a renewable technology which i can support wholeheartedly.
in fact, in every respect, it is the polar opposite of the solar and wind that we have wasted vast resources on in recent years, driving up energy prices and forcing energy—intensive businesses to move out of the european union altogether.
the eu has created the perfect environment for trafficking to flourish.
the uk at national level is currently reviewing how the sustainable development goals will be implemented, with a focus on ensuring that value for money is given for the uk taxpayer and that aid given is provided effectively and in the right areas.
‒ i welcome this resolution’s call to integrate the economic, social and environmental pillars of sustainable development.
sustainability is all about the future, and handing over a better world to the next generation, to the youth.
decision-makers and elected representatives, including myself, must work together with youth organisations and civil society in order to ensure that young people are firmly at the centre of international sustainable development strategy and the implementation of the sdgs.
however the eu has created the perfect environment for trafficking with the free movement of people across europe.
free movement allows the perfect environment for trafficking to flourish, with no checks at the borders between countries and no criminal background checks.
however the eu has created the perfect environment for trafficking with the free movement of people across europe.
however the eu has created the perfect environment for trafficking with the free movement of people across europe.
however the eu has created the perfect environment for trafficking with the free movement of people across europe.
however the eu has created the perfect environment for trafficking with the free movement of people across europe.
this time, according to the commission’s own fact sheet, they intend to claim that despite a more difficult global environment the eu’s recovery continues.
it is not a case of the eurozone battling against the global environment so much as the euro dragging down the global economic environment.
madam president, the global challenges we are facing have been well versed in this house: terrorism, the migration crisis, energy and climate change.
they need to ensure that human health and the environment are protected, taking into account the possible consequences for the agri-food sector and the need to encourage innovation and the development of new plant protection solutions.
then we should let it complete its work and save our energy for the evaluation and decision making that will follow.
– mr president, the energy retail market in europe is not functioning properly and citizens are directly impacted by this failure.
around the eu, consumers are overcharged for their energy bills.
in my country, the uk, consumers overpaid gbp 1.2 billion a year for their energy bills between 2009 and 2013. over 50 million citizens are living in energy poverty in the eu and are forced to choose on a daily basis between heating, cooling or eating.
around the eu, consumers are willing to invest in energy efficiency and self-generation projects, but are hindered by heavy administrative burdens and high upfront investment costs.
throughout europe, energy markets are not transparent and are not competitive enough.
energy bills are becoming increasingly complex and citizens are not able to compare offers easily.
many consumers are on outdated energy contracts, unaware of their ability to switch.
regarding the retail energy market, to increase the transparency and clarity of bills, we need to include peer-based comparisons and information on switching in those bills.
and on energy poverty, we need to focus energy efficiency objectives and funds on our most vulnerable citizens.
we also call, commissioner, for a definition of energy poverty and an action plan from the european commission.
i was very pleased that the committee on industry, research and energy voted on tuesday, on the energy efficiency implementation report, to place tackling energy poverty at the heart of energy efficiency.
energy efficiency can be the glue of social cohesion and european integration.
i strongly believe that proposing a meaningful level of ambition in the revision of the 2030 energy efficiency targets is a necessity.
for every 1% improvement in energy efficiency, three million more homes can be properly renovated and seven million citizens lifted out of energy poverty.
as a conclusion, i want to highlight that energy is not a commodity: it is a basic social right.
as a conclusion, i want to say that this report is about the widow in bulgaria, unable to compare energy offers and unaware that she could save money by switching.
it is about benefits for all, and 28 member states working together to end energy poverty.
– mr president, my group supports the concept of an energy union.
we believe the best way to ensure energy security for the whole of europe and to provide the lowest prices for our citizens is a properly integrated gas and electricity market.
i want consumers and businesses in my constituency to be able to buy their energy from any company in the eu.
i want an energy system that is fair on consumers and helps to protect the energy-poor.
i am happy for the commission to share the best practices of member states in combating energy poverty.
customers should receive clear information in their bills, and switching energy suppliers should be a simple and transparent process.
i support the call that energy providers’ websites and digital invoicing should be fully accessible to disabled people.
whilst energy poverty needs to be tackled, the best way this can be done on a european level is through having a properly-functioning and competitive single market that delivers low prices.
i doubt that the broad common and non—quantitative definition of energy policy that the rapporteur calls for will achieve anything at all.
it is not the eu’s business, and it is also inappropriate for her to call for a ban on doorstep selling by energy companies.
i do agree with the rapporteur that the third energy package has not been fully implemented.
transparency is an excellent thing, which we approve of; competition – the ability to switch suppliers: that too is extremely positive; completing interconnectors so that we can trade energy across europe: that too is very positive.
the reason why we have very high energy prices in europe and the reason why we are driving our industry into an uncompetitive situation compared to the rest of the world is that we have chosen to rely obsessively on unreliable, expensive, intermittent renewable energy which exports inefficiency to the backup and across the grid.
that is the reason, and if we fail to address that reason, we will not solve the problems of competitiveness in the energy market in the european union, and we will not deliver secure and affordable energy to our consumers.
the fact is we have chosen as a deliberate policy to drive up energy prices; we have chosen as a deliberate policy to drive many consumers into fuel poverty; we have chosen to undermine the competitiveness of our industries and to drive energy-intensive businesses offshore to other jurisdictions with lower environmental standards, where they actually emit more co2 than they would do if we remain.
mr president, i would also like to thank my colleague and fellow north—west labour mep teresa griffin for her report on a new deal for energy consumers.
completing the european energy union and lowering energy costs across the eu will have an enormous direct positive impact on british citizens, and it is yet another reason for us to vote to stay in the eu.
i welcome the report’s recommendations on fighting energy poverty and i am here to stress that we must include a holistic gender perspective in all of these proposals.
single mother households are much more likely to face energy poverty than male—headed households.
energy and household costs are strongly linked to household indebtedness, which in turn plays a role in female homelessness.
economic data on households is important, but household income can be unequal and vulnerable women or children can end up facing de facto poverty – in effect the feminisation of poverty – and this should also be taken into account when we define what energy poverty is.
and are you really willing to tell that mother of three that she cannot be automatically told the amount of energy she is using and why she is paying for it?
why on earth should our citizens pay for them in energy?
it is part of the solution to eradicating energy poverty.
it is a scandal that we have 50 million citizens in energy poverty.
‒ i voted against as in my view we need to reduce eu spending wherever possible and also provide stronger budget scrutiny to reduce waste and inefficiency of taxpayers’ money.
‒ i voted against as in my view we need to reduce eu spending wherever possible and also provide stronger budget scrutiny to reduce waste and inefficiency of taxpayers’ money.
‒ i voted in favour of this report which calls for recommendations in the retail energy market to bring energy prices down, enhance transparency, empower consumers, democratise the energy system and protect the most vulnerable.
energy should be considered as a social right: currently, over 50 million are living in energy poverty in the eu – around 2.3 million in the uk.
we need to take action at the eu level so that people do not have to choose between heating, eating or cooling and do not pay more for energy because they are unable to insulate their homes.
mr president, energy poverty is a blight on the lives of over 50 million europeans.
this report is an important step forward in our efforts to solve some of these issues and, if implemented, will provide a range of measures to tackle the root causes of energy poverty.
this is not the way to deal with energy poverty.
i believe that in order to alleviate energy poverty, the uk should make its own energy policy and invest in low-cost reliable energy sources such as nuclear.
we in ukip believe that the uk should make its own energy policy and exploit and invest in lower-cost, reliable energy sources like coal, gas and nuclear.
we in ukip believe that the uk should make its own energy policy and exploit and invest in lower-cost, reliable energy sources like coal, gas and nuclear.
we in ukip believe that the uk should make its own energy policy and exploit and invest in lower-cost, reliable energy sources like coal, gas and nuclear.
we in ukip believe that the uk should make its own energy policy and exploit and invest in lower-cost, reliable energy sources like coal, gas and nuclear.
‒ this report calls for europe’s citizens to have access to affordable and sustainable energy and i welcome that call.
in this regard, scotland is an energy pioneer with almost 60% of electricity consumed in 2015 coming from renewable sources.
last year the scottish government invested ukp 2.5 million in our power energy, an independent energy supply company operating on a non-profit distributing basis – and i commend initiatives such as this to the house.
‒ energy policy must, like all eu policies, take social aspects into account and contribute to fighting poverty and social exclusion.
we want energy regulators to work with energy suppliers and price-comparison organisations to deliver information directly to consumers.
we in ukip believe that the uk should make its own energy policy and exploit and invest in lower-cost, reliable energy sources like coal, gas and nuclear.
we in ukip believe that the uk should make its own energy policy and exploit and invest in lower-cost, reliable energy sources like coal, gas and nuclear.
‒ i voted against this as i believe the uk should be responsible for its own energy policy.
‒ hundreds of thousands of people across the west midlands are being kept on outdated energy contracts and are made to pay large termination fees when switching to a cheaper supplier.
‒ as a conservative mep, i share the fundamental aims underlying the perspective new energy deal for eu citizens – that it should be fair on consumers, protect them from energy poverty and promote competition in the sector (as such, i support the provision of clear price information which enables eu consumers to shop around for cheaper energy prices).
however, i found certain draft amendments in the itre report problematic, specifically with the prescribed definition of ‘energy poverty’.
yet any attempts to set a binding definition would be unhelpful, as it must be up to each member state to decide what ‘energy poverty’ looks like nationally, based on their own calculation of low income and the reasonable cost of energy.
a number of further provisions called for in the report have an established basis in the third energy package, and are therefore unnecessary – we must focus on implementing existing legislation more efficiently, rather than duplication.
– i voted in favour of this report, which calls for recommendations in the retail energy market to bring energy prices down, enhance transparency, empower consumers, democratise the energy system and protect the most vulnerable.
energy should be considered a social right: currently, over 50 million are living in energy poverty in the eu – around 2.3 million in the uk.
we need to take action at the eu level so that people do not have to choose between heating, eating and cooling and do not pay more for energy because they are unable to insulate their homes.
the report contains proposals for practical measures, such as the need to guarantee social inclusion and equal treatment; the provision of sustainable jobs and growth as well as ensuring that consumers are protected to a high degree.
‒ i voted in favour of this comprehensive strategy on the single market which seeks to improve the well-being of european citizens by proposing practical measures that need to guarantee equal treatment and social inclusion, creation of sustainable jobs and growth and high level consumer protection.
new holistic vision on the single market based on green knowledge-based social market economy will improve the well—being of european citizens by proposing practical measures that need to guarantee equal treatment and social inclusion, creation of sustainable jobs and growth and high level of consumer protection.
‒ i voted in favour of this strategy which delivers a new holistic vision of the single market based on green, knowledge-based social market economy which seeks to improve the well-being of european citizens by proposing practical measures that need to guarantee equal treatment and social inclusion, creation of sustainable jobs and growth and high level consumer protection.
– i voted in favour of this report because it supports the overall objectives of the commission’s single market strategy for goods and services: ‘upgrading the single market: more opportunities for people and business’, and appreciates its actions in key areas to unleash the full potential of the single market for the benefit of consumers, employees and businesses, in particular start-ups, to increase the number of sustainable jobs and to grow and develop smes; encourages the commission to develop cross-cutting policies designed to achieve a fairer and more competitive single market in line with title ii of the tfeu on provisions having a general application.
mr preda mentioned the agreement on the sustainable development goals (sdgs) and that, of course, was underpinned by the agreement on the financing for development.
the british influence in european development efforts has helped leverage greater commitment to the un 0.7% gnp aid target, to untying aid, and now to mainstreaming the un sustainable development goals.
you have also mentioned the international atomic energy agency (iaea).
– mr president, the iaea monitors nuclear energy development throughout the world under the auspices of the un.
belarus must certainly carry out all the environmental impact assessments and stress tests required by international agreements, and reassure all of its neighbours that the wider environment and citizens across the region and beyond are safe - and that includes me and mr etheridge.
the humanitarian and environmental catastrophe that would occur in the case of a serious accident is terrible to contemplate, and i have seen first-hand the devastated lives of the fukushima survivors - bereaved, bereft, suffering mental health problems, and in the case of many children unable even to play outdoors for fear of contamination.
the nuclear power industry is a big player in the energy industry, with huge subsidies from the public purse.
we should support farmers’ seed systems which maintain agro—biodiversity.
land availability is shrinking; we have environmental degradation, shortages of water and increased energy demand, not to mention the emergence of new pests and diseases – all of which are putting real pressure on the natural environment.
so we need to develop technological solutions not only to increase production, but to improve the means of distribution and to tackle food waste, and the benefits of innovative technologies need to be applicable and available to all our farmers whether they are conventional or organic, livestock or arable, small scale or large scale.
farmers are the major stewards of our environment and they need continued access to innovation, new technology and research in order to produce food in a sustainable way.
madam president, the eu faces a plateau in productivity and fertility caused by soil degradation and loss of ecosystem functions.
intensive farming and climate change have caused this, so continuing down the same intensive path is not a solution – technical or otherwise.
soil health was in the uk news last week as our environmental audit committee argued that cap cross-compliance rules for agricultural soil health need greater scope, force and ambition.
of course we want to cooperate in research in a way that is sustainable in the long term.
madam president, as regards the mcintyre report, i think it is one thing to support innovation and new technologies for the agriculture sector, but i think it is quite another thing to do that with rather a disregard for farmers’ independence, environmental sustainability, and european rules on food safety.
but i do not understand why modernisation of european agriculture is deemed equal to the genetic modification exceeding the boundaries of the established eu gmo assessment framework; deemed equal to a fast-track approval process for new pesticides, potentially putting human health and the environment at risk; and deemed equal to entrenching a misguided rationale that the eu should feed the world, despite the clear logic in favour of the developing world feeding itself and ensuring its own food sovereignty based on agro-ecological approaches.
we need to make clear, and ensure, that the common agricultural policy does not stifle innovation and modern technology; but the process must not compromise human health, environmental sustainability or animal welfare.
the eu keeps us safe – we are now living through the longest period of peace inside the european union since the roman empire – and the eu is good for our environment and countryside, cleaning up our bathing water, protecting our wildlife and helping us to collectively tackle climate change.
if countries like britain want to have a globally competitive environment in which to create business, jobs and wealth, then we must leave an eu which is intent on harmonising taxes.
tax dodging, just like pollution, climate change and international crime, does not respect borders.
there is no such thing as perfect knowledge, this has been both a waste of time and british taxpayer´s money.
‒ whilst this report contained some positive provisions specifically in relation to human rights, the environment, refugees, tax avoidance and the rights of individual countries to determine their own development policies, it also contained some very regressive provisions regarding the proposed common security and defence policy.
– we voted against because, however well-intentioned, the thinking in this report is economically illiterate and would waste taxpayers’ money.
‒ i voted in favour of this report, which includes a stronger linkage between policy coherence for development (pcd) and sustainable development goals (sdgs).
this is another example where the eu can, and should, take the lead in promoting a universal pcd agenda - with sustainable development being the key goal.
it includes stronger links between policy coherence for development (pcd) and sustainable development goals (sdgs), greater involvement for local and regional governments and civil society organisations.
this is another example where the eu can, and should, take the lead in promoting a universal pcd agenda - with sustainable development being the key goal.
following the signing of the sustainable development goals (sdgs) last year, the need for development principles to run through all eu policy is greater than ever.
‒ i voted in favour of the report, as following the signing of the sustainable development goals (sdgs) last year the need for development principles to run through all eu policy is greater than ever.
‒ we voted against because, however well-intentioned, the thinking in this report is economically illiterate and would waste taxpayers’ money.
‒ we voted against because, however well-intentioned, the thinking in this report is economically illiterate and would waste taxpayers’ money.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because the need for development principles to run through all eu policy is particularly great, especially since the signing of the sustainable development goals in 2015. the principle of policy coherence for development represents the commitment by the eu to take account of the impact of its policies on international development, despite difficulties in its implementation.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because following the signing of the sustainable development goals (sdgs) last year, the need for development principles to run through all eu policies such as environment, agriculture, trade, education, culture, etc., is greater than ever.
to truly achieve sustainable development, the policies we pursue in agriculture, trade, security and defence, must clearly correspond and compliment sustainable development, and this is what this report aims to achieve.
this report from a green rapporteur highlights the problems with this ppp and the need for stronger governance structures which currently are lacking in the implementation of nafsn as well as the need to support family farms and smallholders as a more sustainable way to achieve food security and elimination of hunger.
therefore, i voted in favour of this report as it contained some very positive and progressive provisions and proactively worked to implement sustainable solutions.
‒ i voted for this report, as it highlights the new alliance’s record of undermining sustainable small-scale production and benefiting big corporations while local farms have lost both land and money.
i would also welcome better regulation and monitoring of public-private partnerships, as well as making undertakings accountable for human rights, social environmental and labour standards, etc.
safeguarding farmers’ land rights and protecting their environment from concentrated land ownership is vital, so i welcome the fact that this report calls on private companies to create appeal mechanisms and publish publicly—accessible annual reports.
‒ i want to see accounting standards that ensure financial stability and sustainable growth, along with a meaningful reform of the process of elaboration and endorsement of accounting standards.
labour meps support the promotion of accounting standards which will ensure financial stability and sustainable growth and a deep reform of the process of elaboration and endorsement of accounting standards, in order to ensure better and greater transparency and accountability where it didn’t exist before.
i want to see the promotion of accounting standards which will ensure financial stability and sustainable growth and a deep reform of the process of elaboration and endorsement of accounting standards in order to ensure better and greater transparency and accountability and introduce it where it didn’t otherwise exist.
for the industry to be sustainable, we need to ensure fair and transparent relations between producers and suppliers.
further delay means that utps continue to distort the single market, consumers are adversely affected, competent suppliers close and unnecessary food waste is created – while workers and farmers suffer.
further delay means that utps continue to distort the single market, consumers are adversely affected, competent suppliers close and unnecessary food waste is created – while workers and farmers suffer.
further delay means that utps continue to distort the single market, consumers are adversely affected, competent suppliers close and unnecessary food waste is created, whilst workers and farmers suffer.
further delay means that utps continue to distort the single market, consumers are adversely affected, competent suppliers close and unnecessary food waste is created, whilst workers and farmers suffer.
any undue delay will mean that utps will continue to distort the market, which will affect the integrity of the european single market, it will adversely affect consumers and create unnecessary food waste.
further delay means that utps continue to distort the single market, consumers are adversely affected, competent suppliers close and unnecessary food waste is created, whilst workers and farmers suffer.
further delay means that utps continue to distort the single market, consumers are adversely affected, competent suppliers close and unnecessary food waste is created, whilst workers and farmers suffer.
further delay means that utps continue to distort the single market, consumers are adversely affected, and competent suppliers close and unnecessary food waste is created, whilst workers and farmers suffer.
on the whole, the food sector’s supply chains are full of exploitation of workers, violations human rights, and damage the environment around the world.
the eu is one of the only international actors that can act to ensure that food supply chains are fairer and more sustainable, and this is one step towards that cause.
with an ever increasing global population it is important that innovative solutions for sustainable agriculture are found as we move into the future.
farmers have their part to play in becoming more sustainable and efficient as they feed more and more people.
‒ i welcome my colleague anthea mcintyre’s report and its focus on supporting innovation through reduced regulation and on the importance of creating a risk-based regulatory environment, underpinned by scientific evidence.
the report is not backed up by scientific or economic facts, and contains statements that could undermine rules on health and the environment.
farmers in wales need support to produce food but also to protect our environment.
the two can go hand in hand if sustainable methods are adopted.
‒ better management of natural resources is key for sustainable agriculture.
‒ the report represents an unacceptable endorsement of industrial factory farming, despite its disrespect for the environment and animal welfare standards.
behind the smokescreen of high-tech solutions and ‘precision agriculture’, conservative meps are trying to push forward even more environmental and climate damage.
it is unacceptable for parliament to endorse further increases of food production in the eu at a time of massive food wastage and immense climate impacts of unsustainable meat and dairy consumption.
eu agriculture policy needs more balance between food production, environment and climate and cannot keep serving exclusively the interest of big agri-industries.
‒ i was not able to support my other socialist colleagues on this report as i believe that it represents an unacceptable endorsement of industrial factory farming and its utter disrespect for the environment and animal welfare standards.
it is completely unacceptable for parliament to endorse any further increases of food production at a time of massive food waste and the immense climate impacts that unsustainable meat and dairy consumption produces.
the agricultural policy of the eu needs to be made more balanced, taking into account food production, the environment and climate change.
these techniques could significantly reduce the use of fertiliser and water, and combat soil erosion, making farming much more sustainable in the future.
‒ unlike the mcintyre report on ‘technological solutions for sustainable agriculture’, this report from jan huitema is much more balanced and includes some key policy points which labour meps have been advocating.
following the un conference on financing for development, the pledge is made for climate finance at cop21 and europe’s own support for a financial transactions tax.
i would add engineers to his list, and if we want to move further in terms of a just transition towards a low-carbon economy, engineers are people that we need.
would the commission like to comment on whether he feels that the european union has moved on to become a more welcoming environment, or indeed whether the integration proposals that he has are going to work as part of a two-way street?
in one of the earlier reports, we looked at the focus on the shift in our economy to a more sustainable, low-carbon economy.
to ensure the sustainability of our welfare systems, more people need to work.
it created a climate of great institutional mistrust and has only added fuel to the fire of violence that we are witnessing now.
madam president, when i was flying back from strasbourg to london a few months ago, i looked down at the sea and i saw line after line of huge wind turbines, generating clean, green energy, and i thought: is this the juncker plan?
i am in favour of international action to ensure that where possible pollution caused by hazardous and noxious substances by sea is prevented.
i support the idea that the polluter should pay and that a regime is in place for clearing up that pollution.
we will continue to insist on respect for human rights, better labour and social standards and efforts to implement better environmental rights in this country.
‒ this was a consent vote on the partnership and cooperation framework agreement which provides an overarching strategic political framework for strengthening philippines -eu bilateral cooperation and a legal framework for further engagement between the eu and the philippines across a broad range of areas, including political dialogue, trade, energy, transport, investment, human rights, education, science and technology, justice, asylum and migration.
we will continue to insist on respect for human rights, better labour and social standards and efforts to implement better environmental rights in this country.
we will continue to insist on respect for human rights, better labour and social standards and efforts to implement better environmental rights in this country.
i believe that this will provide an environment which attracts greater investment, and which will urgently tackle the problem of unemployment.
this legislative report represents the eu’s commitment to the country and desire to see the country bring about an environment which is more conducive to investment and will address the urgent problem of unemployment in this area.
the assistance will target structural reforms aimed at improving the overall macroeconomic management and the conditions for sustainable growth (e.g.
‒ i voted for this report to support the commission proposal to provide assistance to tunisia which will target structural reforms aimed at improving the overall macroeconomic management and the conditions for sustainable growth.
this legislative report represents the eu’s commitment to the country and desire to see the country bring about an environment which is more conducive to investment and will address the urgent problem of unemployment in this area.
the motion also calls on president nicolas maduro and his government to implement urgent economic reforms in cooperation with the national assembly in order to find a constructive solution to the economic and energy crises, in particular the shortage of food and medicines.
the motion also calls on president nicolas maduro and his government to implement urgent economic reforms in cooperation with the national assembly in order to find a constructive solution to the economic and energy crises, in particular the shortage of food and medicines.
do you agree that one potential consequence of the failure to defend industries, whether it is in the uk or in any other country in europe, is that that can then mean that those industries are moved to countries with lower standards of regulation and therefore we end up virtually outsourcing pollution?
mr president, conservative meps support increasing the amount of energy coming from renewable sources.
contrary to the commission’s 2015 renewable energy progress report, i am happy to note that the uk is ahead of our mid-term target and that we remain on track to reach our goal of 30% of electricity from renewable sources by 2020. we recognise the importance of energy efficiency both for reducing dependence on imports as well as for overall consumption.
we do not support binding efficiency and renewable targets.
‒ this report was a positive and progressive one, which highlighted the need for a modal shift and for higher energy efficiency of renewables in order to improve the sustainability of transport.
the report also analyses how member states have done in achieving their renewable energy targets.
ireland has fallen short of the heat energy target.
‒ i voted in favour of this report which was an implementation report by markus pieper on the energy efficiency directive.
the energy efficiency directive (2012/27/eu) establishes a framework of measures for the promotion of energy efficiency in the eu and sets a non-binding target of 20% energy efficiency improvements by 2020. the eu as a whole is expected to fall short of this non-binding target, although the commission and the rapporteur are optimistic and claim we can still reach the target.
in the committee phase, my political group, gue/ngl, tabled alternative compromise amendments with other progressive groups calling for a binding 40% target on energy efficiency for 2030. this is positive, as it displays political will and commitment to the paris climate change agreement.
all governments, including those that have historically been involved in environmental issues, have followed the same policy.
(applause)i want my country to be internationalist, cooperative, ecological, fair, european.
– mr president, my group welcomes this report on energy labelling.
we are also satisfied that this report requires the commission to consider a ten-year timescale when deciding on future energy labels.
we agree that under certain conditions trade can bring sustainable growth and jobs – for instance, we have just had the fifth anniversary of the eu-korea free trade agreement, where eu exports to korea have increased by 55% helping to turn a trade deficit into a trade surplus.
my group has always pushed for ftas to be used as levers to promote eu values, and as such we welcome the reference to sustainable development, human rights, fair and ethical trade and the fight against corruption and tax evasion.
and in this respect we reiterate in the report that the trade and sustainable development chapters in our ftas should be enforceable in order to make sure our trading partners effectively implement those rules.
our report sets out tools to ensure that we can trade more fairly, reducing human and environmental exploitation here and abroad, creating virtuous trade relations, progress at home and enabling our trading partners to reach equal or better levels of human development as ours.
this report offers concrete proposals to make sustainable development operational, and i will highlight just five of them.
sustainable development must be enforceable.
finally, we will ensure that our decision to leave the eu is not used as an excuse to launch a race to the bottom in terms of environmental standards, taxation and workers’ rights.
everyone on both sides in the recent uk referendum is in favour of a common market in the sense of unrestricted trade and opportunities to benefit mutually from commerce with our friends across the channel, but when we get to regulating issues of this sort – emissions limits for non-road mobile machinery – we realise that, instead of a market that deals with mutual product recognition and cross-border issues, we are entering a single regulatory regime.
it addresses type approval for internal combustion engines, given that nrmm engines constitute a significant proportion of the total man-made emissions of certain noxious atmospheric pollutants.
is responsible for up to 30% of traffic pollution.
i opposed this report because i believe that it is right for the united kingdom to set our own energy policy; my vote against was on the grounds of this principle rather than related to the specific proposed standards.
we believe that the uk should make its own energy policy, and exploit and invest in lower-cost, reliable energy sources like coal, gas and nuclear.
‒ currently, 15% of total nox emissions and 5% of total particulate matter emissions in the eu are caused by non-road mobile machinery (nrmm).
i voted in favour of this report, which will set strict emission limits for nrmm engines on the eu market from 2019. by doing so, this report encourages industry to produce progressively cleaner engines for these machines – and that will, in turn, have environmental and health benefits for citizens.
‒ currently, 15% of total nox emissions and 5% of total particulate matter emissions in the eu are caused by non-road mobile machinery (nrmm).
i voted in favour of this report, which will set strict emission limits for nrmm engines on the eu market from 2019. by doing so, the report encourages industry to produce progressively cleaner engines for these machines and will bring both environmental and health benefits for citizens.
‒ i voted in favour of this report, as it will ensure industry is manufacturing progressively cleaner engines for these machines and will bring both environmental and health benefits for citizens.
15% of total nox emissions and 5% of total pm emissions in the eu are caused by nrmm, mainly due to construction sites and machinery.
this report will ensure that industry is manufacturing progressively cleaner engines for these machines and will bring both environmental and health benefits for citizens.
we believe that the uk should make its own energy policy, and exploit and invest in lower-cost, reliable energy sources like coal, gas and nuclear.
we believe that the uk should make its own energy policy, and exploit and invest in lower-cost, reliable energy sources like coal, gas and nuclear.
‒ in the voting session today i voted in favour of this legislative report as it will introduce strict emission limits for non-road mobile machinery placed on the eu market from 2019. currently, 15% of total nox emissions – and 5% of total particulate-matter emissions – in the eu are caused by non-road mobile machinery.
this report will ensure that industry is manufacturing progressively cleaner engines for these machines and will bring both environmental and health benefits for citizens.
15% of total nox emissions and 5% of total pm emissions in the eu are caused by nrmm, mainly due to construction sites and machinery.
this report will ensure that industry is manufacturing progressively cleaner engines for these machines and will bring both environmental and health benefits for citizens.
– the proposal aims to regulate harmful emissions from engines installed in so-called non-road mobile machinery (nrmm), a term which covers a wide variety of machinery such as construction machinery, inland water vessels, trains, chainsaws and generator sets.
emissions from engines in nrmm contribute significantly to the eu’s total polluting emissions.
i voted in favour of the report as i believe it will bring both environmental and health benefits by reducing pollutant emissions of nitrogen oxides (nox), hydro-carbons (hc), carbon-monoxide (co), and particulate matter (pm) from engines fitted in nrmm.
‒ i voted in favour of this report which calls for legally binding human rights and social and environmental standards in the eu’s international trade agreements.
it also calls for human rights impact assessments and sustainability impact assessments to become binding, and further highlights the commission’s recent decision to rubber-stamp the vietnam eu free trade agreement without having done so.
the resolution further calls for the commission to act within the world trade organisation to promote the setting of enforceable rules for the sustainable management of global supply chains by multinational companies.
environmental protection is a very important issue to my constituents in wales, and i recognise that our priority is to strengthen the guarantees in trade and sustainable development chapters.
in this debate, i draw attention as well to the importance of the ‘compass’ which is enabling business to measure its contribution to the un sustainable development goals and to the long-term investment project being undertaken by the un principles for responsible investment.
i particularly welcome support for the concept of a ‘sustainable capital markets union’.
as i said to a recent meeting of the european social investment forum on this subject which we hosted in the european parliament, investors are the key to long-term value creation so that european business can itself be sustainable.
‒ the eu has done important work in the fields of social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate responsibility.
‒ with my colleagues, i voted in favour of this report because it is intended as a follow-up to a series of recommendations issued in 2010 by the european parliament with respect to social and environmental standards (referred to under the heading of tsd for trade and sustainable development), human rights and corporate social responsibility in the context of the eu’s common commercial policy.
‒ while it includes some constructive language around low-carbon economies, illegal wildlife trade and some mention of the precautionary principle, overall this is a very negative report containing some very regressive provisions.
i welcome the fact that several of my socialist group’s priorities were included into the report, including our commitment to a multilateral approach in the first instance, as well as our desire to see enforceable sustainable development chapters in trade agreements.
i am pleased to see that so many of the priorities of socialist meps have made it into the report: from a commitment to the multilateral approach, as a first and best option, to a desire to see enforceable sustainable development chapters in trade agreements, and the notion that trade may work for ordinary people only when paired with the right flanking measures, in relation to social policy, education and public investment to name a few.
i voted in favour as i believe these principles are in line with the principles that my labour colleagues and i share, such as reaffirming that commitment to the multilateral approach is the first best option; that enforceable sustainable development chapters should be added in trade agreements; that the eu needs to focus increasingly on implementation of concluded agreements; and that the european parliament wants the ttip transparency initiative extended to all negotiations.
the resolution also emphasises that labour and environmental standards must be respected throughout the supply chain and reaffirms that trade only delivers for ordinary people when paired with the right flanking measures (such as social policy, education, public investment).
at the same time, the ongoing turbulence in africa and elsewhere will be detrimental to our own future security, and the consequences of climate change are plain for all to see.
by default, a border and coast guard system should not become a maritime and land-based rescue system yet, in the current climate, this seems to be exactly what the proposition is.
this report will help eu countries to work together to prevent and detect network disruptions in critical infrastructure like banking, energy and air traffic control.
in so many areas, we share mutual interests such as developing a thriving global economy, fighting terrorism and promoting a cleaner environment.
the exact choice of these programmes (in the fields of education, culture, research, energy, etc.)
the 2014 progress report by the commission adopted last year stated that ‘the democratic and human rights environment significantly deteriorated in 2014’ in azerbaijan.
millions of people from different european countries have spent years putting all their energy and effort into a country which has always welcomed them, and that is how it should continue to be.
the nis directive represents the first eu-wide legislation on cyber-security and it will improve security in the eu online environment with benefits for citizens, consumers and businesses alike.
‒ i voted in favour of the directive as it represents the first eu-wide legislation on cybersecurity and it will improve security in the eu online environment with benefits for citizens, consumers and businesses alike.
the nis directive represents the first eu-wide legislation on cyber-security and it will improve security in the eu online environment with benefits for citizens, consumers and businesses alike.
the nis directive represents the first eu-wide legislation on cyber-security and it will improve security in the eu’s online environment with benefits for citizens, consumers and businesses alike.
‒ i voted in favour of this report which was concerned with updating the energy efficiency labelling directive which was adopted in 2010. the commission has proposed its revision, this time as a regulation to take effect in january 2017. one of the key reasons for this update is that the a-g energy efficiency scale label for consumers has become over-complicated, confusing and therefore misleading for consumers.
this will also be an incentive to manufacturers to achieve the a category of energy efficiency labelling.
the original a-g energy scale will be restored and the same green to red colouring scheme will be retained.
‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to build an energy union with a forward-looking energy and climate policy.
energy efficiency is a crucial element of a strategy to tackle climate change.
an effective energy efficiency labelling policy will provide consumers with key information as to products’ impact on the environment.
‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to build an energy union with a forward-looking energy and climate policy.
energy efficiency is a crucial element of a strategy to tackle climate change.
an effective energy efficiency labelling policy will provide consumers with key information as to products’ impact on the environment.
‒ i voted in favour of this report as it aims to update and make more effective the existing acquis on energy labelling.
‒ i voted in favour of this proposal which aims to build an energy union with a forward-looking energy and climate policy.
in my view energy efficiency is a crucial element of a strategy to tackle climate change.
an effective energy efficiency labelling policy will provide and has provided citizens with a deeper understanding of the products’ impact on the environment and of their life-cycle.
and addressing them could lead to an important step towards additional energy savings.
this in no manner or form improves the lives and conditions of fisheries workers or the sustainability of fish stocks.
– national authorities that carry out coastguard functions are responsible for a large number of tasks in areas as wide-ranging as maritime safety, security, search and rescue, border controls, customs checks, environmental protection and law enforcement in general.
we will also fight hard for further sustainable funding either at european, national or regional levels for those who work so hard to build strong community relations.
‒ while there were some positive references in this report in relation to tackling climate change and social exclusion, the negative provisions failed to mitigate the concerns i had with this report and i had no option but to abstain on this report.
‒ labour meps voted in favour of the resolution because it promotes the establishment of a more integrated strategic approach across eu funds and policies to counter the existing fragmented approach, identifying complementarities as well as orientations on the articulation of structural funds with other eu policies such as horizon 2020, in order to better pursue the goal of achieving a smart and sustainable growth in europe.
– labour meps voted in favour of the resolution because it promotes the establishment of a more integrated strategic approach across eu funds and policies to counter the existing fragmented approach, identifying complementarities as well as orientations on the articulation of structural funds with other eu policies such as horizon 2020, in order to better pursue the goal of achieving a smart and sustainable growth in europe.
i voted in favour of an alternative resolution presented by gue/ngl which called for an alternative economic strategy based on redistributive policies that promote sustainable growth and social wellbeing.
we must also strengthen sustainable economic growth and improve our long-term competitiveness; embrace a new ambitious industrial strategy building on and complementing the circular economy package; and respond to climate change and ensure energy security.
japan must halt its whaling programme – it threatens animal welfare and biodiversity.
‒ i voted in favour on this report as japan must halt its whaling programme which threatens animal welfare and biodiversity.
japan must halt its whaling programme which threatens animal welfare and biodiversity.
‒ i have voted in favour on this as japan must halt its whaling programme which threatens animal welfare and biodiversity.
– this motion for a resolution calls on the commission to act, potentially interfering in a third country’s energy policy, ukip is against such neo-colonialism and accordingly voted against.
‒ this motion for a resolution calls on the commission to act, potentially interfering in a third country’s energy policy, ukip is against such neo-colonialism and accordingly voted against.
‒ this motion for a resolution calls on the commission to act, potentially interfering in a third country’s energy policy, ukip is against such neo-colonialism and accordingly voted against.
the shifting world order, conflict in the middle east and north africa, an aggressive russian expansionist state, global migration patterns, the effects of climate change, international jihadist terrorism as we recently saw in dhaka – all of these are shared threats and will continue to be so.
focusing on initiatives such as the energy union and investment in cyber security are also very positive steps.
the socialists and democrats welcome the commitment to making the sustainable development goals a cornerstone of eu external policy and to upholding the concept of decent work in europe and outside it.
in this current climate only determined civil society action can bring about change.
free movement is a basic right in the eu and persons with disabilities should not be excluded from it – either in their local living environment or when traveling abroad.
in malawi alone, there have been 65 recorded violent incidents since 2014. a mixture of folklore and belief systems that openly stigmatizes the condition by association with omens and bad luck versus ideas of the magical healing powers of dismembered limbs has resulted in an extremely dangerous and hostile environment for those poor individuals with albinism.
it contains many helpful and timely recommendations, including calls for enhanced cooperation on migration, to work towards the implementation of the sustainable development goals and to promote the full implementation of the arms trade treaty.
it contains many helpful and timely recommendations, including calls for enhanced cooperation on migration, to work towards the implementation of the sustainable development goals and to promote the full implementation of the arms trade treaty.
it contains many helpful and timely recommendations, including calls for enhanced cooperation on migration, to work towards the implementation of the sustainable development goals and to promote the full implementation of the arms trade treaty.
it contains many helpful and timely recommendations, including calls for enhanced cooperation on migration, to work towards the implementation of the sustainable development goals and to promote the full implementation of the arms trade treaty.
it is important because we felt as meps that these claims, these health claims, would be misused and abused, in particular by the energy drinks industry.
we have been doing some work on the energy drinks industry in this house on the issue of how they have been marketing their products to children and we know from many local authorities across the countries that we work within that there are issues about consumption of energy drinks amongst young people.
i would like to commend the work of a particular individual, councillor norma hart from edinburgh city council, who has done so much work and mounted a campaign on this issue about energy drinks.
‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution which urges the commission to place restrictions on the marketing of energy drinks to children and adolescents.
energy drinks have a high sugar and caffeine content and they are known to cause headaches, sleep problems and behavioural problems in young people who regularly consume them.
moreover, growth in the energy-drinks market has boomed and children and teenagers are some of the biggest consumers.
warning labels are being ignored whilst the industry’s code of practice, which is merely voluntary anyway, only commits it not to market energy drinks to children under 12. instead of pushing forward with health claims which help to promote these energy products, the commission must stop dragging its heels and come forward with the nutrient profiles which have already been agreed upon in legislation, instead of giving energy drinks a leg-up on the market.
‒ labour meps voted to protect consumers from misleading health claims found on energy drinks.
energy drinks should not be marketed as healthy, and especially not to children.
‒ labour meps voted to protect consumers from misleading health claims found on energy drinks.
energy drinks should not be marketed as healthy, and especially not to children.
‒ i voted in favour of this report to protect consumers from misleading health claims being used on energy drinks.
‒ labour meps voted to protect consumers from misleading health claims being used on energy drinks.
‒ i have voted in favour of this objection as we must protect consumers from misleading health claims being used on energy drinks.
mr president, we in ukip object both to the eu strategy on heating and cooling and the commission’s new energy market design.
it is clear that the eu strategy on heating and cooling would be used to reinforce the disruptive eu energy and climate policy that has already brought irreparable damages to the european industry and economy.
with regard to the new energy market design, we opposed the implementation of the third energy package in all member states.
the disaster of the eu over-commitment to unreliable, intermittent and hugely expensive renewables has now made clear that the eu climate policies have done far more economic damage than anything that could be envisaged as a result of climate change.
they have forced up prices, undermined competitiveness and driven energy-intensive industries out of the eu altogether, taking their jobs and investment with them.
the uk as an independent country will soon be free to choose how to make its own energy policy and to exploit and invest in lower-cost, reliable energy sources like coal, gas and nuclear.
mr president, while i respect the outcome of the uk referendum i still believe that many people were not given adequate information, especially when it comes to energy.
meanwhile, data highlights the fact that the uk is failing to achieve our 2020 renewable targets.
post brexit, the uk has a big decision to make: do we want to follow ambitious eu targets creating a strong economy and a safer environment for future generations, or do we want a race to the bottom and the scrapping of renewable targets to massage big business?
i call on the uk government and our secretary of state for business, energy and industrial strategy, greg clark, to clarify the government’s position ahead of brexit negotiations.
as usual, the eu starts with worthy intentions but, because it does not understand the nature of the problem, it will waste money, achieve little and probably make the situation worse.
so i welcome the efforts to better coordinate funding tools that are crucial for the sustainable development of european regions in both urban and rural areas.
i hope not by taking away resources from our long-standing commitments to sustainable development goals and undermining other goals that the ep has set which are already in need of additional resources.
madam president, the many threats facing europe’s bee population, including those of environmental changes and the varroa parasite, are well known, but it is my duty to address the appalling lack of focus and public attention being given to the spread of the small hive beetle in southern italy.
we have heard already that a decision was taken in the past to move in a direction that has led to higher nox emissions, concentrating rightly – yes – on reducing co2, but having this side effect.
we have new ‘real driving emissions’ (rde) testing rules already in place, which is one key part of the answer, and we have new market surveillance proposals from the commission, which are the second key part.
we can deliver it to protect consumers and the environment, but we need to get on with it.
i came to this because of my rapporteurship on air quality, and my problems started when i was given a presentation from the directorate-general for the environment at the beginning of that process – that is about three years ago now – which clearly showed that they were very well aware of the disconnect between the actual standards and what they delivered on the road.
each member state has adopted its own national targets in each of these areas (employment, innovation, education, social inclusion and climate/energy).
i therefore welcome the effort made in this report to build synergies across policy areas and better coordinate funding tools that are crucial for the sustainable development of regions, in both urban and rural areas.
smart specialisation should not only be seen as a tick box exercise for jobs and growth, but help us answer ecological, social, economic and cultural challenges.
– we believe that national parliaments should be responsible for all investigations related to maladministration in the application of environmental law.
i believe that national parliaments should be responsible for all investigations related to maladministration in the application of environmental law.
‒ we believe that national parliaments should be responsible for all investigations related to maladministration in the application of environmental law.
‒ we believe that national parliaments should be responsible for all investigations related to maladministration in the application of environmental law.
‒ we believe that national parliaments should be responsible for all investigations related to maladministration in the application of environmental law.
‒ we believe that national parliaments should be responsible for all investigations related to maladministration in the application of environmental law.
in 2012 crocetta made several comments relating to organised crime involvement in public procurement procedures in relation to environmental policies, including saying the certain waste-to-energy plants were controlled by the mafia.
however, the report also states that its aim is to develop a fully-integrated internal energy market.
sinn féin believes that more transparency and obligatory reporting in the energy market is certainly required, but we have concerns about the energy union and the impact of a ‘fully integrated internal energy market’, so for this reason abstained.
in the context of the ‘energy union strategy’ the commission has committed to preparing reports about energy costs and process every two years starting in 2016. the statistical data on gas and electricity prices are needed by the commission to monitor the internal market and will no doubt be used as the basis for more unnecessary legislation from the eu.
– i voted in favour of this report as the collection of statistical data will enable member states to plan their energy needs better.
in addition, the collection of prices will enable the internal energy market to function better and ultimately lead to lower prices for consumers.
‒ the uk as an independent country should be free to choose how to collect statistics on energy prices.
‒ i voted against this as i do not wish the eu to have access to our internal energy statistics.
we in ukip believe that the uk should make its own energy policy and exploit and invest in lower-cost, reliable energy sources like coal, gas and nuclear.
gue/ngl’s position in favour of a focus on public support for developing renewable energy, access to the grid, the right to self-generation, decentralised solutions, and energy efficiency measures, etc.
not favouring one form of energy over another – which is the opposite of what is required as we need a strong intervention by member states in favour of developing renewables.
the report aims to ensure the implementation of the third energy package in all member states.
it calls for a new regulatory framework and asks member states to increase the use of renewable energy in order to reduce co2 emissions from electricity generation.
i believe that the uk should make its own energy policy and exploit and invest in lower-cost, reliable energy sources like coal, gas and nuclear.
we in ukip believe that the uk should make its own energy policy and exploit and invest in lower-cost, reliable energy sources like coal, gas and nuclear.
‒ whilst there are a number of areas of this report i agree with, the fact remains that decisions over the precise energy mix in each member state are a national competence and i oppose efforts to centralise this at a european level.
we in ukip believe that the uk should make its own energy policy and exploit and invest in lower-cost, reliable energy sources like coal, gas and nuclear.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because we need to implement a market design that is fit for the future, and one which works for both consumers and industry, ensuring affordable energy.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because we need to ensure a market design that is fit for the future, and one which works for consumers and industry, ensuring affordable energy.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because we need to ensure a market design that is fit for the future, and one which works for consumers and industry, ensuring affordable energy.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because we need to ensure a market design that is fit for the future, and one which works for consumers and industry, ensuring affordable energy.
we in ukip believe that the uk should make its own energy policy and exploit and invest in lower-cost, reliable energy sources like coal, gas and nuclear.
we in ukip believe that the uk should make its own energy policy and exploit and invest in lower-cost, reliable energy sources like coal, gas and nuclear.
– i voted in favour of this report because we need to ensure a market design that is fit for the future, and one which works for consumers and industry, ensuring affordable energy.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because we need to ensure a market design that is fit for the future, and one which works for consumers and industry, ensuring affordable energy.
the move away from generation in large central power plants towards decentralised production from renewable energy sources (and flexibility) requires an adaptation of the current rules of electricity trading and changes to the existing market roles.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because we need to ensure a market design that is fit for the future, and one that works for consumers and industry, ensuring affordable, clean and safe energy.
building a true european energy union must work not only in order to be environmentally sustainable and reduce carbon emissions, but also to eliminate energy poverty, including targeted policies to ensure affordable energy for vulnerable groups, particularly vulnerable women, in line with an earlier report i co-authored on ‘meeting anti-poverty targets in light of rising household costs’.
we must make sure that our energy policy is compatible and complementary to social and environmental policy.
– although the strategy does not announce any new legislative proposals, we oppose the eu strategy on heating and cooling as it will be used to reinforce the disruptive eu energy and climate policy that has already brought irreparable damage to europe’s industry and economy.
‒ i voted in favour of this own initiative report which makes proposals to direct the implementation of the commission’s strategy on the energy union launched in february this year.
this is a progressive report that emphasises the need to include specific measures for heating and cooling in the upcoming revisions of the energy efficiency directive, the res directive and the energy performance of building directive, and the new ‘energy market design’.
it suggests that high-energy efficiency measures, high-performance insulation, the use of renewable sources and recovered heat are the fundamental priorities for eu’s heating and cooling strategy.
the eu ‘heating and cooling strategy’ is part of the european commission´s sustainable energy security package.
its main objective is to reach 2030 climate and energy targets.
although this strategy does not announce any new legislative proposals i oppose this eu strategy as it will be used to reinforce the disruptive eu energy and climate policy that has already brought irreparable damages to the uk´s industry and economy.
‒ although the strategy does not announce any new legislative proposals, we oppose the eu strategy on heating and cooling as it will be used to reinforce the disruptive eu energy and climate policy that has already brought irreparable damage to europe’s industry and economy.
‒ although the strategy does not announce any new legislative proposals, we oppose the eu strategy on heating and cooling as it will be used to reinforce the disruptive eu energy and climate policy that has already brought irreparable damage to european industry and economy.
heating and cooling accounts for roughly half of the eu’s final energy demand – the report seeks solutions to reduce demand and make the sector more efficient in order to decrease dependence on energy imports, reduce emissions, and bring down costs to consumers, especially those at risk of energy poverty.
‒ heating and cooling accounts for roughly half of the eu's final energy demand – i voted in favour of this report which is looking for solutions to reduce demand and make the sector more efficient, in order to decrease dependence on energy imports, reduce emissions, and bring down costs to consumers, especially those at risk of energy poverty.
‒ i voted in favour of this report which is looking for solutions to reduce demand and make the sector more efficient, in order to decrease dependence on energy imports, reduce emissions, and bring down costs to consumers, especially those at risk of energy poverty.
‒ heating and cooling accounts for roughly half of the eu’s final energy demand – i voted in favour of this report which is looking for solutions to reduce demand and make the sector more efficient, in order to decrease dependence on energy imports, reduce emissions, and bring down costs to consumers, especially those at risk of energy poverty.
‒ although the strategy does not announce any new legislative proposals, we oppose the eu strategy on heating and cooling as it will be used to reinforce the disruptive eu energy and climate policy that has already brought irreparable damage to europe’s industry and economy.
‒ although the strategy does not announce any new legislative proposals, we oppose the eu strategy on heating and cooling as it will be used to reinforce the disruptive eu energy and climate policy that has already brought irreparable damage to europe’s industry and economy.
– i voted in favour of this report which is looking for solutions to reduce demand and make the sector more efficient, in order to decrease dependence on energy imports, reduce emissions, and bring down costs to consumers, especially those at risk of energy poverty.
‒ heating and cooling accounts for roughly half of the eu’s final energy demand – i voted in favour of this report which is looking for solutions to reduce demand and make the sector more efficient, in order to decrease dependence on energy imports, reduce emissions, and bring down costs to consumers, especially those at risk of energy poverty.
‒ heating and cooling accounts for roughly half of the eu’s final energy demand – i voted in favour of this report which searches for solutions to reduce demand and make the sector more efficient, in order to decrease dependence on energy imports, reduce emissions, and bring down costs to consumers, especially those at risk of energy poverty.
together with fellow socialist meps i have worked to advance a comprehensive european strategy to end energy poverty, while targeting those who are most vulnerable, particularly women facing social exclusion and single mothers.
fortunately brexit means this will not be our problem for much longer, and we look forward to a positive and lighter regulatory climate in post-brexit britain.
i look forward to a positive and lighter regulatory climate post-brexit.
fortunately brexit means this will not be our problem for much longer, and we look forward to a positive and lighter regulatory climate in post-brexit britain.
fortunately brexit means this will not be our problem for much longer, and we look forward to a positive and lighter regulatory climate in post-brexit britain.
fortunately brexit means this will not be our problem for much longer, and we look forward to a positive and lighter regulatory climate in post-brexit britain.
fortunately brexit means this will not be our problem for much longer, and we look forward to a positive and lighter regulatory climate in post-brexit britain.
the report tackles various important issues regarding the eusalp: multi-level governance, investments, jobs, environment, climate change and mobility.
this reported wants the commission to set up a platform for more public and private financing for the project, in other words let’s waste more taxpayers money.
the report will improve access and transport in the alpine regions, improve competitiveness and cohesion and develop sustainability.
the report will improve access and transport in the alpine regions, improve competitiveness and cohesion and develop sustainability.
‒ i voted in favour of this report as it aims to improve access and transport in the alpine regions, enhance competitiveness and cohesion and develop sustainability.
the report will improve access and transport in the alpine regions, improve competitiveness and cohesion and develop sustainability.
the report will improve access and transport in the alpine regions, improve competitiveness and cohesion and develop sustainability.
it is therefore imperative for the un summit to look at this, in addition to state building, sustainable development and conflict prevention.
last summer’s tragic waste of life could have been avoided if chancellor merkel had not made the reckless decision to open germany, and thus the rest of the schengen area, to all who could physically make it to its borders.
this morning we voted on the africa trust fund in this parliament, and the key message from our resolution is that we need to keep an eye on long-term development, on reducing poverty and reducing inequalities, on gender equality, tackling climate change and improving the lives and the economic and social well-being of people in the world’s poorest countries.
war and instability, poverty and climate change all mean that people will keep trying to come to europe in search of refuge or a better life.
however, our objective of helping tunisia implement adequate reforms, boots employment and develop sustainable and inclusive growth will only materialise in a just and fair society.
i welcome what the commissioner said about the sustainable development chapter.
mr president, we expect consistency and policy coherence from the commission, especially when it comes to our relations with developing countries, but this agreement is not consistent with the eu’s sustainable development goals.
the weak sustainable development chapter provides for no mandatory monitoring or enforcement.
this is not a proper sustainable development chapter or monitoring.
it is just another waste of taxpayers’ money that will achieve nothing.
it is just another waste of taxpayers’ money that will achieve nothing.
it is just another waste of taxpayers’ money that will achieve nothing.
it is just another waste of taxpayers’ money that will achieve nothing.
it is just another waste of taxpayers’ money that will achieve nothing.
it is just another waste of taxpayers’ money that will achieve nothing.
it is just another waste of taxpayers’ money that will achieve nothing.
it is just another waste of taxpayers’ money that will achieve nothing.
it is just another waste of taxpayers’ money that will achieve nothing.
‒ i voted in favour of the report as the eu-sadc epa can represent an important element of the eu strategy for africa by contributing to economic and sustainable development in the region.
‒ i voted in favour of the report because the eu—sadc epa can represent an important element of the eu strategy for africa by contributing to economic and sustainable development in the region.
sadc epa includes a trade and sustainable development (tsd) chapter.
show the negative impact that these kinds of agreements can have on sustainable development.
in view of this concern, i urge my colleagues in parliament to engage in negotiations that put the respect of labour rights, the agenda 2030, the growth and development of sadc countries, food security, social protection and the environment at the top of our priorities.
the resolution identifies huge concerns in relation to civil liberties, adherence to democratic necessities and environmental and constitutional malpractice.
if we are to reverse the damaging cuts to public services and to invest in such vital issues as mitigating climate change, then we need to keep up the pressure for tax justice.
they are also failing to tackle discrimination on the labour market, so talent and qualifications are going to waste.
but i would also like to point out that we have a clear risk here of forgetting that we have to deal with the challenges of climate change, which figures as a clear goal of the 2020 strategy.
so together we must ensure the long-term sustainability of the universal service obligation, protecting, as has also been said, minimum delivery standards while recognising that the current provisions do provide member states with the necessary flexibility within the law in the application of the directive, according to particular geographical circumstances.
it is important too to allow enough flexibility for member states to meet their own domestic needs, as well as ensuring that this service is sustainable.
plus, it could also help in terms of gaining access to funds from institutional investors who are sitting on their capital because of the current climate of low interest rates.
– mrs lochbihler, you made a reference that since december 2014 the philippines has enjoyed enhanced trade preferences with the eu under the gsp+ scheme, granted to them in exchange for good performance on human rights and labour rights, the environment and good governance, and this has already provided a major boost to the philippines.
‒ i voted in favour of a report which encourages member states to adopt concrete employment policies aiming at ensuring an inclusive and integrated labour market and at addressing the severe impact of unemployment, to create sustainable employment and to ensure decent working conditions including social protection.
‒ i voted in favour of a report which encourages member states to adopt concrete employment policies aiming at ensuring an inclusive and integrated labour market and at addressing the severe impact of unemployment, to create sustainable employment and to ensure decent working conditions including social protection.
today the eplp voted in favour of a report which encourages member states to adopt concrete employment policies aiming at ensuring an inclusive and integrated labour market and at addressing the severe impact of unemployment, create sustainable employment and ensure decent working conditions including social protection.
today the eplp voted in favour of a report which encourages member states to adopt concrete employment policies aiming at ensuring an inclusive and integrated labour market and at addressing the severe impact of unemployment, create sustainable employment and ensure decent working conditions including social protection.
today the eplp voted in favour of a report which encourages member states to adopt concrete employment policies aiming at ensuring an inclusive and integrated labour market and at addressing the severe impact of unemployment, create sustainable employment and ensure decent working conditions including social protection.
therefore, i voted together with my eplp colleagues in favour of a report that encourages member states to adopt concrete employment policies aimed at ensuring an inclusive and integrated labour market and at addressing the severe impact of unemployment, thereby creating sustainable employment and ensuring decent working conditions including social protection.
‒ i welcome my colleague’s report, and its focus on creating a good environment for smes to grow and create jobs, particularly addressing a number of key issues including skills mismatches, regulatory uncertainty and administrative burdens.
firstly, the sustainable development goals must be at the heart of our future partnership.
democracy, independence and freedom come only when peoples have a safe, solid, sustainable economy.
mr president, the partnership between the eu and acp countries is an important vehicle for sustainable development and i would like to thank my colleagues who truly understand this.
we all know that the future belongs to young people and that is why it is important for me to highlight the participation and empowerment of children and young people when we talk about the future of acp-eu relations and sustainability.
we can only hope that when we leave the eu, which we will do shortly, we can then promote true food security and sustainability.
we need a fundamental shift towards agro-ecology so that countries can feed themselves with a diversity of crops while addressing climate and poverty challenges.
illegal logging and trade in illegal timber has a devastating impact on the world’s forests, threatening the survival of various wildlife species and contributing to climate change.
instead, we have the usual cliché buzzwords: ‘political momentum’, ‘coherence’, ‘synergies’, ‘climate’, ‘mitigation’.
– we in ukip are against this recommendation because we oppose the climate change alarmism supported by green lobbies, often financed by the eu commission.
they are the cause of our current damaging and counter-productive energy policy.
‒ i am concerned about the potential impact of this on our energy policy.
there is a need to find cost-effective means of renewable energy.
however, artificial targets caused by an overly alarmist point of view lead to renewables being introduced before the technology is available to ensure that they are economically sustainable.
a better approach would be a research-based one, solving the storage problem first before introducing forms of energy production which are, for example, intermittent.
‒ we in ukip are against this recommendation because we oppose the climate change alarmism supported by green lobbies, often financed by the commission.
they are the cause of our current damaging and counter-productive energy policy.
‒ like most members of the european parliament, i voted today in support of ratifying the paris agreement on climate change, probably the most important vote i have cast as an mep.
the energy, industry and transport sectors must act to reduce emissions – and so must the land-use sector.
agriculture has significant potential to reduce emissions, through agro-forestry for example.
forestry also has a major role to play as trees and timber soak up carbon, substituting for carbon-intensive steel, concrete and plastic.
the paris agreement will pursue emissions reductions through a ‘burden—sharing’ agreement between eu countries.
in my own constituency, northern ireland, our most recent programme for government aims to reduce emissions by 35% on 1990 levels by 2025. the most recent report by the cross-department working group on climate change confirmed that we are there or thereabouts in meeting this goal.
climate change is the greatest threat facing us today, and we in wales need to do all we can to protect the planet and ensure the well-being of future generations.
‒ i am against this recommendation because i oppose the climate change alarmism supported by green lobbies, often financed by the commission.
they are the cause of our current damaging and counter-productive energy policy.
‒ i am delighted that we have ratified the paris climate agreement.
this is essential for the future of our planet and is a crucial step in the direction of a low—carbon future.
– we in ukip are against this recommendation because we oppose the climate change alarmism supported by green lobbies, often financed by the commission.
they are the cause of our current damaging and counter-productive energy policy.
it’s vital that we protect our planet for the next generation and seize the opportunities of the low—carbon revolution.
the paris agreement on climate change from december last year is a great achievement, in an otherwise challenging year for the eu and the united nations, and its ratification proves that europeans can work together and reach compromises that work for all citizens.
we must ensure we create a ‘just transition’ that does not punish working people and communities, but instead offers new, high-quality jobs for our constituencies and sustainable growth for our economies.
tackling climate change must be turned into an opportunity not just a challenge.
‒ we in ukip are against this recommendation because we oppose the climate change alarmism supported by green lobbies, often financed by the commission.
they are the cause of our current damaging and counter-productive energy policy.
‒ we in ukip are against this recommendation because we oppose the climate change alarmism supported by green lobbies, often financed by the commission.
they are the cause of our current damaging and counter-productive energy policy.
‒ today, along with colleagues in the european parliament, i voted to give consent to the ratification of the paris climate agreement in the european parliament.
‒ today, along with colleagues in parliament, i voted to give consent to the ratification of the paris climate agreement in the european parliament.
‒ climate change is the most significant challenge facing humanity as a whole at present.
eu member states must move as quickly as possible to ratify and implement the cop21 paris agreement, so that the eu can play a leading role in the global effort to combat climate change.
ukip does not support the growing eu influence and the waste of funds on a failing eu project.
ukip does not support the growing eu influence and the waste of funds on a failing eu project.
the number one driver both socially and economically in these countries is to provide sustainable investment, creating local jobs and giving people, young and old, a true stake in society.
this is not sustainable.
a new acp-eu settlement should therefore focus on incentivising economic development in indigenous communities, sustainable land use and agricultural production and above all enhanced access to education for young people.
ukip does not support the growing eu influence and the waste of funds on a failing eu project.
the emphasis should be on regional cooperation on the day-to-day level, with the acp architecture remaining as a forum to promote common standards on issues such as human rights and environment.
ukip does not support the growing eu influence and the waste of funds on a failing eu project.
the emphasis should be on regional cooperation on the day to day level with the acp architecture remaining as a forum to promote common standards on human rights, environment, etc.
ukip does not support the growing eu influence and the waste of funds on a failing eu project.
ukip does not support the growing eu influence and the waste of funds on a failing eu project.
‒ today, i voted for the report on the future of acp-eu relations beyond 2020. it calls for breaking down the acp into regional blocs whilst maintaining the cap as an umbrella organisation, and for the sustainable development goals (sdgs) to be incorporated as the guiding aim of development cooperation between the eu-acp amongst the other measures concerning cooperation between the acp-eu.
‒ the eu is a global leader of the sustainable development agenda, and the relationship between the eu and the acp countries is a cornerstone of that agenda.
we welcome the commission’s help and support with the problem, but i urge them to remember that migrants all over the world are the consequence of the widening gap between the world’s rich nations and the world’s poor nations, and of climate change and violence.
and then they might get onto human rights, they might talk about war, they might talk about the migration crisis and they might talk about climate change and equality, but no young person has ever asked me for a free railway ticket.
when the countries of southern europe are being crushed underfoot by germany’s insistence that the interests of the euro and the french and german banks should be placed above the lives of ordinary citizens and steel workers in the united kingdom are losing their livelihoods by the thousands, you people are proposing to waste around eur 2 billion a year on this soviet-style intourist propaganda vehicle.
the report highlights the need to end hunger and malnutrition by 2030, through the support of smallholders’ farms and sustainable and climate resilient agriculture and food systems.
‒ i voted in favour of the report, as it underlines the importance of achieving sustainable development goal 2 aimed at ending hunger and malnutrition by 2030, notably by increasing the productivity of smallholders’ farms, achieving sustainable and climate resilient agriculture and food systems.
the report underlines the importance of ending hunger and malnutrition by 2030, notably by increasing the productivity of smallholders’ farms, achieving sustainable and climate resilient agriculture and food systems.
we want to see the european commission, the council, the member states and the international community, as well as developing countries’ governments commit to fighting all forms of malnutrition and to mobilise long-term financial investments for food and nutrition security and sustainable agriculture.
the report underlines the importance of ending hunger and malnutrition by 2030, notably by increasing the productivity of smallholders’ farms, achieving sustainable and climate resilient agriculture and food systems.
we want to see the commission, the council, the member states and the international community, as well as developing countries’ governments, commit to fighting all forms of malnutrition and to mobilise long-term financial investments for food and nutrition security and sustainable agriculture.
the eu must ensure policy coherence for sustainable development, trade, and economic and humanitarian assistance in order to achieve that goal and should therefore give more attention to the alternative trade mandate and the field work of organisations such as care international and world vision.
our future outside the european union offers potential external to eu state aid rules and many damaging eu energy policies.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because it emphasises the need to support the green economy, including public procurement, energy efficiency and renewable energy as well as the need to stop tax evasion.
wales needs sustainable development of the economy and social policies which will prevent mass job losses.
the eu needs a socially-sensitive industrial policy, which adjusts to the situation regarding global markets, and is compatible with trade policy, in order to safeguard european industries and create real sustainable and inclusive economic growth.
this friday my colleague, environment minister sólymos will deposit, together with commissioner arias cañete, the eu ratification instrument to the united nations in new york.
thirdly, further action by all parties individually and collectively will be required to re-orient finance flows and make them consistent with a pathway towards low greenhouse gas emissions and climate-resilient development.
the eu and its member states remain committed to scaling up the mobilisation of climate finance as part of the global effort to assist developing countries to implement their low carbon sustainable development and in particular their nationally determined contributions (ndcs).
domestic implementation, climate policies and measures to achieve intended ndcs and their full integration in national policies are of crucial importance.
finally, i would like to briefly highlight at this point the ongoing legislative work on the implementation of the eu 2030 climate and energy framework, namely on the proposal to reform the ets sector and the proposals on non-ets.
these measures will enable the target to reduce eu greenhouse gases emissions domestically by at least 40 % in 2030 compared to 1990 emissons to be achieved.
– madam president, first i would like to thank the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi), and indeed the whole parliament, for their strong support to ratify quickly the paris agreement on behalf of the european union.
yesterday’s plenary vote in this very chamber was a historic moment and a further demonstration of european resolve and determination to combat climate change.
in particular, we must show that countries are putting in place ambitious climate policies and that they are getting ready to implement the nationally determined contributions under the paris agreement.
within the european union, the recent decision to channel 40% of the european fund for strategic investments towards climate-relevant projects in the infrastructure and innovation window shows how we are aligning our instruments to deliver the paris commitments.
the european union’s new external investment plan is designed to leverage strategic investments in our partner countries, not only to support climate action but also to facilitate the delivery of the sustainable development goals.
the global climate action agenda will also play a vital role in helping governments, business and other stakeholders to be inspired by the action around the world.
the 2018 facilitative dialogue will be a key political moment in the international climate negotiations.
the dialogue will follow the special report to be published by the intergovernmental panel on climate change on emissions pathways compatible with limiting global temperature increase to 1.5 degrees centigrade.
progress on climate finance is also critical.
the european union remains committed to supporting partner countries in their efforts on climate action and remains the biggest donor region, our highest level ever in 2015. finally, it is crucial that prior to marrakesh we recall the need to make progress, as many members have pointed out, in other international fora.
as you know, the icao assembly is taking place right now in montreal with a view to agreeing a global market—based mechanism in order to achieve the stabilisation of aviation emissions at 2020 levels.
we have achieved remarkable progress this year on global climate action.
– madam president, the small increase in temperature we have seen over the past 100 years is entirely consistent with the natural long—term cyclical changes we have seen for at least 10 000 years and there has been no significant increase in warming since 1995. that the entire text of the motion for a resolution is based on the false assumption that climate change due to agw is occurring.
we in ukip deny the climate change alarmism supported by green lobbies, often financed by the commission, who both are responsible for our current damaging and counter—productive energy policies.
to date, hundreds of energy—intensive industries, along with thousands of jobs, have left the eu and moved to the third world.
despite this, the commission continues to impose never ending unrealistic objectives for emissions reductions.
sadly such policies, which are forcing investment of vast sums of money will have little or no effect on climate.
on leaving the eu, britain will be free to formulate its own energy policy whereby our poorest citizens will not be forced to choose between heating and eating.
but it seems we can have optional emissions limits under the paris climate deal.
if it were implemented, the eu only accounts for about 10% of global emissions, so we shall have no effect at all, while india and china continue to build coal-fired power stations.
i will tell you what we will achieve: we will set in stone the competitive disadvantage in energy prices which we have chosen to impose upon ourselves.
mr president, this week we have shown that the european union can act quickly and decisively on climate change.
with the next round of global climate talks rapidly approaching, this is no time for us to sit on our laurels – the world cannot wait and neither should we.
we must put in place policies that limit the rise in global average temperatures to no more than 1.5° celsius, while allowing a just transition which provides working people and their communities with high-quality jobs and produces sustainable growth for our economies.
– we in ukip are against this resolution because we object to the paris agreement and the climate change alarmism supported by green lobbies.
they are the cause of our current damaging and counter-productive energy policy.
whilst the report contained some positive points on the very important issue of climate change, it also sees the much derided concept of emissions trading as an important tool in the future of fighting climate change.
in europe, the eu’s own emissions trading scheme is widely accepted as being a very costly failure for eu climate change policy which has not brought the significant emissions reductions required and indeed promised.
‒ whilst i support appropriate improved environmental standards, and specifically appropriate research and development, i cannot support the totality of this report - and believe that it should be for the uk, not the eu, to decide which international agreements we sign up to.
– we in ukip are against this resolution because we object to the paris agreement and the climate change alarmism supported by green lobbies.
they are the cause of our current damaging and counter-productive energy policy.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the 2016 un climate change conference in marrakesh, morocco, cop22.
it is ambitious, but does not go as far as to call for specific numbers on emissions to make the ep’s position even more progressive.
climate change is the greatest threat facing us today, and we in wales need to do all we can to protect the planet and ensure the well-being of future generations.
‒ i am against this resolution because i object to the paris agreement and the climate change alarmism supported by green lobbies.
i believe they are the cause of our current damaging and counter-productive energy policy.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution, as it aims to define the position of the european parliament in view of the cop22 climate conference this november in marrakesh, morocco.
the draft resolution addresses issues such as the urgency to ratify and implement the paris agreement, the pre-2020 ambition and the kyoto protocol, the priority negotiation points in cop22, the role of non-state actors, the comprehensive effort of all sectors, the reduction of non-co2 emissions, climate finance, climate resilience through adaptation, climate diplomacy, etc.
– we in ukip are against this resolution because we object to the paris agreement and the climate change alarmism supported by green lobbies.
they are the cause of our current damaging and counter-productive energy policy.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution, as it aims to define the position of the european parliament in view of the cop22 climate conference this november in marrakesh, morocco.
the draft resolution addresses issues such as the urgency to ratify and implement the paris agreement, the pre-2020 ambition and the kyoto protocol, the priority negotiation points in cop22, the role of non-state actors, the comprehensive effort of all sectors, the reduction of non-co2 emissions, climate finance, climate resilience through adaptation, climate diplomacy, etc.
‒ we in ukip are against this resolution because we object to the paris agreement and the climate change alarmism supported by green lobbies.
they are the cause of our current damaging and counter-productive energy policy.
‒ we in ukip are against this resolution because we object to the paris agreement and the climate change alarmism supported by green lobbies.
they are the cause of our current damaging and counter-productive energy policy.
‒ today, i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the implementation of the paris agreement and the 2016 un climate change conference in marrakesh, morocco (cop22).
this is extremely important given recent reports that the world has now passed the threshold of 400 ppm of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere.
eu member states must do all they can to drastically reduce their greenhouse gas emissions.
vital citizens’ rights in the areas of environment, transport, health and consumer protection, which i have prioritised in my work, are again the subject of the majority of new infringement cases.
– we in ukip are concerned about the safety of gmos for health and the environment, but we would prefer our national parliament to legislate on this delicate issue rather than the european parliament.
‒ we in ukip are concerned about the safety of gmos for health and the environment, but we would prefer our national parliament to legislate on this delicate issue rather than the european parliament.
– we in ukip are concerned about the safety of gmos for health and the environment, but we would prefer our national parliament to legislate on this delicate issue rather than the european parliament.
‒ i am concerned about the safety of gmos and their impact on health and the environment, but i would prefer the uk government to legislate on this delicate issue, rather than the european parliament.
‒ today, i voted against the objection pursuant to rule 106 against the placing on the market of genetically modified maize bt11 seeds, as the risk assessment conducted by the european food safety agency (efsa) concluded that the cultivation of these gm crops is unlikely to a pose danger to human and animal health or to the environment.
– we in ukip are concerned about the safety of gmos for health and the environment, but we would prefer our national parliament to legislate on this delicate issue rather than the european parliament.
‒ we in ukip are concerned about the safety of gmos for health and the environment, but we would prefer our national parliament to legislate on this delicate issue rather than the european parliament.
‒ we in ukip are concerned about the safety of gmos for health and the environment, but we would prefer our national parliament to legislate on this delicate issue rather than the european parliament.
‒ today, i voted against the objection pursuant to rule 106 on the placing on the market of genetically modified maize bt11 seeds, as the risk assessment conducted by the european food safety agency (efsa) concluded that the cultivation of these gm crops is unlikely to a pose danger to human and animal health or to the environment.
‒ labour meps voted against a ban on pest-resistant maize as we agree with efsa's assessment that they are unlikely to pose risks to human, animal health or the environment, while limiting the need for use of pesticides.
– we in ukip are concerned about the safety of gmos for health and the environment, but we would prefer our national parliament to legislate on this delicate issue rather than the european parliament.
‒ we in ukip are concerned about the safety of gmos for health and the environment, but we would prefer our national parliament to legislate on this delicate issue rather than the european parliament.
– we in ukip are concerned about the safety of gmos for health and the environment, but we would prefer our national parliament to legislate on this delicate issue rather than the european parliament.
‒ i am concerned about the safety of gmos and their impact on health and the environment, but i would prefer the uk government to legislate on this delicate issue, rather than the european parliament.
‒ today i voted against the objection pursuant to rule 106 on the placing on the market of genetically modified maize 1507 seeds, as the risk assessment conducted by the european food safety agency (efsa) concluded that the cultivation of these gm crops is unlikely to pose a danger to human and animal health or to the environment.
– we in ukip are concerned about the safety of gmos for health and the environment, but we would prefer our national parliament to legislate on this delicate issue rather than the european parliament.
‒ we in ukip are concerned about the safety of gmos for health and the environment, but we would prefer our national parliament to legislate on this delicate issue rather than the european parliament.
‒ we in ukip are concerned about the safety of gmos for health and the environment, but we would prefer our national parliament to legislate on this delicate issue rather than the european parliament.
‒ today, i voted against the objection pursuant to rule 106 on the placing on the market of genetically modified maize 1507 seeds, as the risk assessment conducted by the european food safety agency (efsa) concluded that the cultivation of these gm crops is unlikely to pose a danger to human and animal health or to the environment.
‒ labour meps voted against a ban on pest-resistant maize as we agree with efsa's assessment that they are unlikely to pose risks to human, animal health or the environment, while limiting the need for use of pesticides.
– we in ukip are concerned about the safety of gmos for health and the environment, but we would prefer our national parliament to legislate on this delicate issue rather than the european parliament.
‒ we in ukip are concerned about the safety of gmos for health and the environment, but we would prefer our national parliament to legislate on this delicate issue rather than the european parliament.
– we in ukip are concerned about the safety of gmos for health and the environment, but we would prefer our national parliament to legislate on this delicate issue rather than the european parliament.
‒ i am concerned about the safety of gmos and their impact on health and the environment, but i would prefer the uk government to legislate on this delicate issue, rather than the european parliament.
‒ today, i voted against the objection pursuant to rule 106 on the placing on the market of genetically modified maize mon 810 seeds, as the risk assessment conducted by the european food safety agency (efsa) concluded that the cultivation of these gm crops is unlikely to pose a danger to human and animal health or to the environment.
– we in ukip are concerned about the safety of gmos for health and the environment, but we would prefer our national parliament to legislate on this delicate issue rather than the european parliament.
‒ we in ukip are concerned about the safety of gmos for health and the environment, but we would prefer our national parliament to legislate on this delicate issue rather than the european parliament.
‒ we in ukip are concerned about the safety of gmos for health and the environment, but we would prefer our national parliament to legislate on this delicate issue rather than the european parliament.
‒ today, i voted against the objection pursuant to rule 106 on the placing on the market of genetically modified maize mon 810 seeds, as the risk assessment conducted by the european food safety agency (efsa) concluded that the cultivation of these gm crops is unlikely to pose a danger to human and animal health or to the environment.
‒ labour meps voted against a ban on pest-resistant maize as we agree with efsa's assessment that they are unlikely to pose risks to human, animal health or the environment, while limiting the need for use of pesticides.
– we in ukip are concerned about the safety of gmos for health and the environment, but we would prefer our national parliament to legislate on this delicate issue rather than the european parliament.
‒ we in ukip are concerned about the safety of gmos for health and the environment, but we would prefer our national parliament to legislate on this delicate issue rather than the european parliament.
– we in ukip are concerned about the safety of gmos for health and the environment, but we would prefer our national parliament to legislate on this delicate issue rather than the european parliament.
‒ i am concerned about the safety of gmos and their impact on health and the environment, but i would prefer the uk government to legislate on this delicate issue, rather than the european parliament.
– we in ukip are concerned about the safety of gmos for health and the environment, but we would prefer our national parliament to legislate on this delicate issue rather than the european parliament.
‒ we in ukip are concerned about the safety of gmos for health and the environment, but we would prefer our national parliament to legislate on this delicate issue rather than the european parliament.
‒ we in ukip are concerned about the safety of gmos for health and the environment, but we would prefer our national parliament to legislate on this delicate issue rather than the european parliament.
‒ today, i voted against the objection pursuant to rule 106 on the placing on the market of genetically modified maize mon 810 products, as the risk assessment conducted by the european food safety agency (efsa) concluded that the cultivation of these gm crops is unlikely to pose a danger to human and animal health or to the environment.
‒ labour meps voted against a ban on pest-resistant maize as we agree with efsa's assessment that they are unlikely to pose risks to human, animal health or the environment, while limiting the need for use of pesticides.
– we in ukip are concerned about the safety of gmos for health and the environment, but we would prefer our national parliament to legislate on this delicate issue rather than the european parliament.
‒ we in ukip are concerned about the safety of gmos for health and the environment, but we would prefer our national parliament to legislate on this delicate issue rather than the european parliament.
– we in ukip are concerned about the safety of gmos for health and the environment, but we would prefer our national parliament to legislate on this delicate issue rather than the european parliament.
‒ i am concerned about the safety of gmos and their impact on health and the environment, but i would prefer the uk government to legislate on this delicate issue, rather than the european parliament.
it is important to ensure that the eu regulatory framework with regards to gmos is further improved, particularly in terms of assessing gmos’ impacts on the wider environment as well as on human health
in writing.
– we in ukip are concerned about the safety of gmos for health and the environment, but we would prefer our national parliament to legislate on this delicate issue rather than the european parliament.
‒ we in ukip are concerned about the safety of gmos for health and the environment but we would prefer our national parliament to legislate on this delicate issue rather than the european parliament.
‒ we in ukip are concerned about the safety of gmos for health and the environment, but we would prefer our national parliament to legislate on this delicate issue rather than the european parliament.
it is important to ensure that the eu regulatory framework with regards to gmos is further improved, particularly in terms of assessing gmos’ impacts on the wider environment as well as on human health.
finding ways to develop and invest in renewable resources offers a wonderful opportunity to do things differently.
this is why, as greens, we believe that sustainable finance must also be equitable finance.
so the need to invest in a sustainable future could be used to swell bank profits, exacerbating inequality.
then the value of money creation could be invested for public good and the value of renewable energy could accrue to local communities.
the german kfw bank provides an excellent model of such a method of capturing the power of banking for public good and i think such a model should be at the heart of sustainable finance.
for some time greens in this house have been ringing the alarm bell about the systemic risk to financial services, products and companies from assets which are grossly overvalued in the context of the eu’s policies to tackle climate change.
since at least 75% of fossil fuel reserves have to be kept in the ground if we are to keep within the 2° global warming limit agreed in paris, companies, banks and pension funds that have significant fossil—related assets on their books are vastly overvalued, a phenomenon known as the carbon bubble.
mckinsey and others have estimated that 30% to 40% of fossil fuel companies’ value could be threatened by this carbon bubble.
we have taken an important first step to tackle the carbon bubble in the specific case of pensions, as was mentioned by the commissioner.
both the european systemic risk board (esrb) and the ecofin council have discussed the idea of undertaking carbon stress tests for banks and we need to make urgent progress on that front.
we should also consider other options put forward by the esrb, such as regulatory loss absorbency requirements, specific capital surcharges based on the carbon intensity of individual exposure, and large exposure limits applied to the overall investment in assets deemed highly vulnerable.
france, for example, has introduced the world’s first mandatory climate disclosure requirements for institutional investors and the us securities and exchange commission is now also taking steps towards mandatory disclosure requirements.
these are just some of the actions governments and central banks are taking to address the risks posed by the carbon bubble.
the eu needs to take similar action and, in this context, we welcome your proposal for a sustainable finance expert group.
the eu is proud of its leadership role on climate change, but is falling behind on the issue of sustainable finance.
there is a veritable climate finance race going on, with countries vying to be the first to turn their capital markets the greenest the fastest, investing in climate solutions instead of climate problems.
international developments are moving fast, from the g20 green finance study group to the fsb climate disclosure task force.
we should ensure that we are part of these developments, which is why it is so important that you move rapidly to establish your expert group and the publication of an eu sustainable finance strategy should not be far behind.
so we welcome this opportunity to debate the economic opportunities offered by the urgent need to transition to more sustainable industrial and energy systems.
we urge that the needs of climate and environment are placed first when sustainable finance is being developed and that attention is paid to the opportunities to achieve greater equity alongside greater sustainability.
mr president, i have just returned from a fact-finding mission in turkish kurdistan where i talked to communities living in a climate of fear and repression in diyarbakir, mardin and on the border with syria.
therefore, we cannot allow the eu to put legislation in place and still waste the taxpayers’ money.
therefore, we cannot allow the eu to put legislation in place and still waste the taxpayers’ money.
therefore, we cannot allow the eu to put legislation in place and still waste the taxpayers’ money.
therefore, we cannot allow the eu to put legislation in place and still waste the taxpayers’ money.
we need to make sure that eu actions are in no way implicated in human rights violations in third countries, and that we continue to promote conflict resolution, sustainable development and dialogue to bring peace to war-torn regions.
the report urges member states to fully implement the third eu energy package.
ukip rejects the implementation of eu energy policy legislation, it is the cause of our current damaging and counter-productive energy policy.
i believe that it had an unbalanced promotion of the use of fossil gas which poses a serious threat for climate change and lng should not benefit from taxpayers’ money.
‒ although the report states that the elimination of regulatory obstacles would greatly improve the liquidity of gas markets the report urges member states to fully implement the third eu energy package.
i am in favour of transparency and eliminating eu regulation but i do not believe that the third eu energy package will benefit the uk.
the report urges member states to fully implement the third eu energy package.
ukip rejects the implementation of eu energy policy legislation, it is the cause of our current damaging and counter-productive energy policy.
‒ i voted against this report because i am opposed to the import of fracked gas and because the report is very supportive of lng expansion while neglecting the reality of climate change.
‒ i voted in favour of this strategy for liquefied natural gas and gas storage as it is an important pillar to strengthen the eu’s energy security.
while increasing security of energy supply, the eu strategy for lng should crucially fit into the wider european climate and energy targets and priorities, and correspond to the cop21 agreement, putting a focus on reducing demand, improving energy efficiency and phasing out fossil fuels.
‒ i voted in favour of this strategy for liquefied natural gas and gas storage as it is an important pillar to strengthen the eu’s energy security.
i strongly believe that the eu energy security strategy should be based on development of renewable and energy efficiency and fit into the wider european climate and energy targets and priorities, and correspond to the cop21 agreement; i believe that lng should only be considered as a transitional fuel and that we should not lock ourselves in the development of stranded assets.
‒ i voted in favour of this strategy for liquefied natural gas and gas storage as it is an important pillar to strengthen the eu’s energy security.
while increasing security of energy supply, the eu strategy for lng should crucially fit into the wider european climate and energy targets and priorities, and correspond to the cop21 agreement, putting a focus on reducing demand, improving energy efficiency and phasing out fossil fuels.
‒ i voted in favour of this strategy for liquefied natural gas and gas storage as it is an important pillar to strengthen the eu’s energy security.
while increasing security of energy supply, the eu strategy for lng should crucially fit into the wider european climate and energy targets and priorities, and correspond to the cop21 agreement, putting a focus on reducing demand, improving energy efficiency and phasing out fossil fuels.
the report urges member states to fully implement the third eu energy package.
ukip rejects the implementation of eu energy policy legislation, it is the cause of our current damaging and counter-productive energy policy.
the report urges member states to fully implement the third eu energy package.
ukip rejects the implementation of eu energy policy legislation, it is the cause of our current damaging and counter-productive energy policy.
‒ today i voted in favour of this strategy for liquefied natural gas and gas storage as it is an important pillar to strengthen the eu’s energy security.
while increasing security of energy supply, the eu strategy for lng should crucially fit into the wider european climate and energy targets and priorities, and correspond to the cop21 agreement, putting a focus on reducing demand, improving energy efficiency and phasing out fossil fuels.
however, attempts to improve the report in committee by including pro-social and pro-environment elements were rejected and overall the report is highly focused on economic growth and competitiveness, heavy infrastructure and subordinating all transport modes ‘without exception’ to the needs of competitiveness and the single market.
but there are areas where we agree we need to work together – on fighting terror, on working with nato on security and defence, on tackling the causes of the refugee crisis, on confronting climate change and reducing our carbon footprint, on re-energising trade relations in the single market.
this regulation will strengthen our phytosanitary security and our biodiversity through a proportionate and risk-based approach that provides quicker decision-making, faster action and better collaboration between member states.
we need only look at the devastation caused by xylella fastidiosa to see both the socioeconomic and the environmental damage which can be caused by pests.
new pests and diseases are emerging all the time as a result of globalisation, climate change and the increasing volume of imports from new parts of the world.
the ecr group is asking if the eu cannot even reach an agreement with a country such as canada – a country with similar environmental and labour standards – what hope do we have of telling the rest of the world that the eu is open for business?
– 1 550 workers made redundant in 3 different estonian companies, 2 in shale gas production, including the leading energy company in the baltic states and one in chemicals production.
in a globalised world in which climate change adds an additional layer of uncertainty, it is necessary that all countries trading on the eu single market adopt a cohesive and comprehensive legal framework to protect their own farmers, horticulturalists, foresters and other operators from the spread of non-native plant diseases.
in a globalised world in which climate change adds an additional layer of uncertainty, it is necessary that all countries trading on the eu single market adopt a cohesive and comprehensive legal framework to protect their own farmers, horticulturalists, foresters and other operators from the spread of non-native plant diseases.
in a globalised world in which climate change adds up an additional layer of uncertainty, it is necessary that all countries trading on the eu single market adopt a cohesive and comprehensive legal framework to protect their own farmers, horticulturalists, foresters and other operators from the spread of non-native plant diseases.
macroeconomic policy must not undermine social inclusion, but rather stimulate truly sustainable and truly inclusive growth, with all aspects of social and economic policy being made compatible and coherent in working holistically towards that goal.
whilst there has been a general decline in trans fats levels in foods over the past decade there are still products on the market which contain 40-50% transfats (when the who recommends that less than 1% of total energy intake should be derived from them, at a maximum).
they can engage in a variety of activities: working with disadvantaged people, on environmental projects, for cultural events, and much more.
just like every other eu project it is a waste of money, it is unnecessary and nobody has heard of it.
what a terrible waste of talent that they should all be cooped up in the european union.
fields covered include air traffic control, carbon-lean energy, nanotechnology, computing technology, cleaner aviation technologies and nuclear fusion.
domains covered include air traffic control, carbon-lean energy, nanotechnology, computing technology, cleaner aviation technologies and nuclear fusion.
fields covered include air traffic control, carbon-lean energy, nanotechnology, computing technology, cleaner aviation technologies and nuclear fusion.
domains covered include air traffic control, carbon-lean energy, nanotechnology, computing technology, cleaner aviation technologies and nuclear fusion.
fields covered include air traffic control, carbon-lean energy, nanotechnology, computing technology, cleaner aviation technologies and nuclear fusion.
domains covered include air traffic control, carbon-lean energy, nanotechnology, computing technology, cleaner aviation technologies and nuclear fusion.
fields covered include air traffic control, carbon-lean energy, nanotechnology, computing technology, cleaner aviation technologies and nuclear fusion.
domains covered include air traffic control, carbon-lean energy, nanotechnology, computing technology, cleaner aviation technologies and nuclear fusion.
the aim is the research and development of a new source of fusion energy.
the aim is the research and development of a new source of fusion energy.
fields covered include air traffic control, carbon-lean energy, nanotechnology, computing technology, cleaner aviation technologies and nuclear fusion.
domains covered include air traffic control, carbon-lean energy, nanotechnology, computing technology, cleaner aviation technologies and nuclear fusion.
fields covered include air traffic control, carbon-lean energy, and nanotechnology, computing technology, cleaner aviation technologies and nuclear fusion.
the aim is the research and development of a new source of fusion energy.
the aim is the research and development of a new source of fusion energy.
‒ the iter joint undertaking is a public-private partnership in the field of fusion energy.
domains covered include air traffic control, carbon-lean energy, nanotechnology, computing technology, cleaner aviation technologies and nuclear fusion.
non-proliferation is supported by a long-standing international regime, legally based on the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and other international treaties, and supported by international institutions such as the un, the international atomic energy agency and others.
non-proliferation is supported by a long-standing international regime, legally based on the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and other international treaties, and supported by international institutions such as the un, the international atomic energy agency and others.
non-proliferation is supported by a long-standing international regime, legally based on the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and other international treaties, and supported by international institutions such as the un, the international atomic energy agency and others.
non-proliferation is supported by a long-standing international regime, legally based on the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and other international treaties, and supported by international institutions such as the un, the international atomic energy agency and others.
– we oppose this because of its lack of realism in understanding both how markets work and the current fiscal climate.
it seeks to increase eu intervention and increase environmental regulation on farming, whilst simultaneously reducing the burden of bureaucracy on farmers.
‒ we oppose this because of its lack of realism in understanding both how markets work and the current fiscal climate.
‒ we oppose this because of its lack of realism in understanding both how markets work and the current fiscal climate.
‒ we oppose this because of its lack of realism in understanding both how markets work and the current fiscal climate.
the report also emphasises the role of women in rural areas as well as the unique contribution from non-agricultural sectors, such as forestry, arts and tourism to the sustainability of remote communities.
for example, i am pleased that our amendments calling for the sector to work better for consumers, start—ups, investors and smes through delivering a healthy and competitive environment were adopted.
however, we have to ensure that banks are stable and well capitalised because they are fundamental to sustainable economic growth.
lastly, on climate change, does the commission believe that member states have really incorporated action on this into their strategies on investment and skills development?
when wales is outside of the eu we will be responsible for our own fisheries policy and it is vital that it is sustainable.
this moves us towards the more sustainable fishing environment that we urgently need.
the report does not call for building a sustainable economy but talks instead about growth and jobs.
wales needs to transform its economy and it can only do that with the right investment and on the basis of sustainability.
what we need is sensible social public investment for inclusive and sustainable growth.
whilst european defence cooperation is increasingly important given the turbulent geopolitical environment we find ourselves in, we must remember that the eu is above all a project of peace.
there is no differentiation between small regular ferries (playing a key role a sustainable public transport alternative for citizens in their daily travels such as for ireland’s islands) and huge cruises for recreational mass-tourism.
neither between the strategic collateral impacts, such as its contribution to social and territorial long-term cohesion, decentralised local economy or a higher overall environmental performance.
nor there is a calling for proper social, economic and environmental assessment – including strategic alternative-analysis – when planning and funding new related infrastructure.
it makes some valid points on improving enforcement of passenger ship safety, but it fails to recognise the needs and differences of smaller operators or to address the unequal restrictions on sulphur emissions for british north sea operators in comparison to their mediterranean competitors.
making better use of available capacity of waterborne passenger transport could help reduce congestion and co2 emissions, improve air quality and provide better transport services overall.
it is proposed that vessels be cleaner and more energy efficient through investment in research and innovative technologies, e.g.
with regard to solar and wind energy, onshore electricity and alternative fuels, while applying the principle of technology neutrality.
this report increases the importance and the potential of a sector that is one of the most sustainable ways to travel and is constantly increasing in consumer demand.
making better use of available capacity of wpt could not only help reduce congestion and co2 emissions, but also improve air quality and provide better transport services overall.
‒ i voted in favour of this report as passenger ships play an important role in the transportation of eu citizens, this report will help increase the importance of a sustainable sector, improve air quality and provide better transport services overall.
this report increases the importance and the potential of a sector that is one of the most sustainable ways to travel and is constantly increasing in consumer demand.
making better use of available capacity of wpt could not only help reduce congestion and co2 emissions, but also improve air quality and provide better transport services overall.
this report increases the importance and the potential of a sector that is one of the most sustainable ways to travel and is constantly increasing in consumer demand.
making better use of available capacity of wpt could not only help reduce congestion and co2 emissions, but also improve air quality and provide better transport services overall.
the report does touch on some very relevant topics such as reducing the carbon footprint, however it goes too far by calling for decarbonisation but does not provide any alternative.
this report increases the importance and the potential of a sector that is one of the most sustainable ways to travel and is constantly increasing in consumer demand.
making better use of available capacity of wpt could not only help reduce congestion and co2 emissions, but also improve air quality and provide better transport services overall.
this report increases the importance and the potential of a sector that is one of the most sustainable ways to travel and is constantly increasing in consumer demand.
making better use of available capacity of wpt could not only help reduce congestion and co2 emissions, but also improve air quality and provide better transport services overall.
this report increases the importance and the potential of a sector that is one of the most sustainable ways to travel and is constantly increasing due to consumer demand.
making better use of available capacity of wpt could not only help reduce congestion and co2 emissions, but also improve air quality and provide better transport services overall.
the report outlines how the eu can maximise the effectiveness of its development aid and meet its development targets agreed in the sustainable development goals (sdgs).
the report outlines how the eu can maximise the effectiveness of its development aid and meet its development targets agreed in the sustainable development goals (sdgs).
the report forms a good outline on how the eu can maximise the effectiveness of its development aid and meet its development targets agreed in the sustainable development goals (sdgs).
‒ i voted in favour of this report because it sets out parliament’s position on the principles of effective development cooperation and how they can contribute to implementing the sustainable development goals (sdgs), particularly in the context of ‘doing more, with less’ i.e.
the report forms a good outline on how the eu can maximise the effectiveness of its development aid and meet its development targets agreed in the sustainable development goals (sdgs).
we must put these differences aside and return to sensible geopolitics, including the work towards a genuine sustainable peace in syria.
don’t forget that for many good people in turkey the journey is perhaps more important than arriving at the destination ... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, yesterday i returned from my second visit to turkey in less than a month, and i can report that the climate of state repression continues unabated, particularly against hdp political opponents and civil society.
the eu must suspend the eu-israeli association agreement until israel dismantles the illegal settlements, ends the occupation of palestine and begins a genuine peace process for a lasting peace and a sustainable two-state solution.
we must rethink the eu’s defence role and enhance its capacity to act in the changing global strategic environment.
its support for strengthening europe’s industrial defence base, eliminating duplication and waste in certain areas of procurement, and exploring the possibility of greater levels of integration militarily for those member states willing to take such action under the permanent structured cooperation (pesco) mechanism is to be welcomed, and also respects the principles of sovereignty.
we must also equip learners with the necessary skills for a more open, sustainable and inclusive society.
the political backdrop has changed dramatically over the past three years, with the issue of air quality moving up the public agenda in an unprecedented way, culminating in the vw scandal and the focus on the issue of real-driving emissions.
air pollution is the number one environmental cause of death in the eu.
air pollution also hits the natural environment through eutrophication and acid deposition.
so in december 2013 the commission published its clean air package the central plank of which was the nec directive and the setting of emissions reduction targets in all the member states for 2030. this proposal has had a difficult passage through the legislative process.
simply put, air pollution does not stop at member state borders.
as the rapporteur, i am fully supportive of this final text and consider it to be an ambitious, fair and workable agreement for reducing the number of premature deaths attributable to air pollution.
90% of our citizens who live in cities are exposed to dangerously high levels of air pollution.
the high initial ambition shown by the environment committee is testament to the individual ambitions of the members who supported the highest targets, and this place can be proud of consistently holding a higher line than that shown by the member states.
we must consistently put pressure to target resources into innovation and the development of new technology, and we must never surrender to the divisive rhetoric from those who want to see a race to the bottom between us on environmental standards.
i have no idea what brexit will end up doing to my city and my country, but i do know that the best environmental protections we have have come from this place.
i do not expect them to, but if my government decides to use environmental standards as a bargaining chip, i expect and urge all of us here to stand firm.
– mr president, air pollution is serious.
air pollution causes 400 000 premature deaths every year in europe.
while i am pleased that eu governments have agreed to halve the number of early deaths in europe from air pollution by 2030, it is clear that we must all work to achieve this – industry, farming, governments and everyone else.
air pollution around the airport is already dangerously above legal levels of nitrogen dioxide, and this will make it worse.
for the conservative government, air pollution is a trade-off.
elevated levels of – and long-term exposure to – air pollution can lead to severe conditions affecting human health.
air pollution also causes harm to flora and fauna.
with brexit, we will finally be free to reject eu environmental and climate policies that have been detrimental to our economies.
free from the eu commission, the uk will provide a reliable and consistent regulatory environment in order to facilitate investment in all affordable energy technologies at the same time as putting the health and interests of our citizens first.
in 2013, a survey by the environmental agency of air quality in 386 cities found that krakow had the third most polluted air in europe, predominantly as a result of 30 000 coal-fired boilers, with a further 150 000 in the wider malopolska area.
in a political statement of resolve following the us presidential elections, the conference adopted a call for all nations to honour promises made in paris and renew their attempts to limit global warming to well below 2 degrees.
negotiators focused on initiatives to reinforce existing carbon reduction plans, with some countries promising to review ambitions before 2020. countries also fixed a 2018 deadline for preparing a rule book establishing the rules and processes needed to provide operational guidance for the paris agreement and 11 governments, including my own, actually ratified the climate agreement during the cop.
despite strategic funding commitments from the us, germany and the uk to improve carbon accounting in developing countries, the sums on offer fall well short of the eur 100 billion a year developed countries have promised to mobilise by 2020 in order to help poorer countries develop their infrastructure on many fronts.
the issue of loss and damage and how to approach recompense for damage caused by climate change has been put off again for discussions at further dates, but that does not mean that it has been forgotten.
over the past 12 months, we have made rapid and unprecedented progress in laying the foundations for a low-carbon, climate-resilient economy.
madam president, we have just seen the unedifying sight of 10 000 climate alarmists flying off to marrakech and emitting thousands of tons of co2 in the process.
on the vexed question of finance, they agreed to keep talking; on the adaptation fund, they failed to reach agreement; on the facilitative dialogue, they postponed to 2018; on the rulebook, they reached no real conclusion; and on the vague concept of loss and damage from climate change, they agreed a five-year plan, effectively postponing the decision until 2022. that is failure writ large.
a few weeks ago, i had the pleasure of hosting my friend marc morano of the american advocacy group climate depot in the brussels parliament for a showing of his movie ‘climate hustle’, a critical appraisal of climate alarmism.
marc morano also went to marrakech, where he symbolically shredded a copy of the paris climate agreement.
because the commission adopted two communications, one on the next steps for a sustainable european future and one on the consensus for development, and it seems to me that the link to be made with paris is a golden opportunity to have real policy coherence for development.
the second opportunity concerns energy in africa and developing countries, and i thank claude turmes for talking about the external investment plan because this is an extremely important opportunity, and we have not talked much today about africa and developing countries.
seventy percent of african energy now comes from renewables, mainly biomass.
in marrakech, 47 developing countries, i think, pledged to invest in renewable energy, and we should be helping them to do that.
our british government has been taken to court several times now by clientearth for not meeting the current requirements on air pollution, specifically nitrogen dioxide, in the existing national emission ceilings directive.
in my constituency, the government has failed to create a clean air zone in bristol, so air pollution will continue to cause at least 300 premature deaths every year within the city.
parliament had a chance today to protect present and future generations, but the positive targets and measures in the environment committee report have been watered down to such a degree that supporting it would have meant condoning a policy of continued air pollution and the health damage it causes.
air pollution in europe causes 400 000 deaths per year and the national emissions ceilings directive is a crucial piece of legislation which is meant to tackle this problem by placing appropriate limits on certain key pollutants which cause high levels of damage to public health.
‒ today ukip abstained on the legislative report on emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants.
air pollution does not only have a negative effect on human beings, it also causes harm to plants and animals.
‒ today ukip abstained on the legislative report on emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants.
air pollution does not only have a negative effect on human beings, it also causes harm to plants and animals.
‒ i voted against this report on the emissions of atmospheric pollutants.
i want better measures to protect my constituents and their environment in wales.
however, due to the sensitivity of the issue i abstained on this report (elevated levels and long-term exposure to air pollution can lead to severe conditions affecting human health).
‒ i voted in favour of this directive, which constitutes an important step in addressing the high health risks and environmental impacts posed by air pollution.
around 90% of europeans living in cities are exposed to levels of air pollution deemed damaging to human health, and many vulnerable socio-demographic groups are particularly affected.
the member states now need to act to fully implement the directive and furthermore step up their ambition in the fight against air pollution.
‒ i voted in favour of this directive, which constitutes an important step in addressing the high health risks and environmental impacts posed by air pollution.
around 90% of europeans living in cities are exposed to levels of air pollution deemed damaging to human health, and many vulnerable socio-demographic groups are particularly affected.
‒ i voted in favour of this directive, which is an important step in addressing the high health risks and environmental impacts posed by air pollution.
‒ i voted in favour of the report which is an important step in addressing the high health risks and environmental impacts posed by air pollution.
around 90% of europeans living in cities are exposed to levels of air pollution deemed damaging to human health, and many vulnerable socio-demographic groups are particularly affected.
the member states now need to act to fully implement the directive and furthermore step up their ambition in the fight against air pollution.
‒ today ukip abstained on the legislative report on emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants.
air pollution does not only have a negative effect on human beings, it also causes harm to plants and animals.
‒ i abstained on this vote as i do not wish for the eu to get involved in emissions.
– today i voted in favour of a first reading agreement on the revised national emissions ceiling directive (necd).
this directive is an important step in addressing the high health risks and environmental impacts posed by air pollution.
the member states now need to act to fully implement the directive and furthermore step up their ambition in the fight against air pollution.
‒ this directive is an important step in addressing the high health risks and environmental impacts posed by air pollution.
around 90% of europeans living in cities are exposed to levels of air pollution deemed damaging to human health, and many vulnerable socio-demographic groups are particularly affected.
the member states now need to act to fully implement the directive and furthermore step up their ambition in the fight against air pollution.
‒ i voted in favour of this directive, it is an important step in addressing the high health risks and environmental impacts posed by air pollution.
around 90% of europeans living in cities are exposed to levels of air pollution deemed damaging to human health, and many vulnerable socio-demographic groups are particularly affected.
‒ this directive is an important step towards addressing the high health risks and environmental impacts posed by air pollution.
around 90% of europeans living in cities are exposed to levels of air pollution deemed damaging to human health, and many vulnerable socio-demographic groups, such as the elderly, are particularly affected.
this deal will cut the number of premature deaths from toxic air by almost half by 2030, forcing governments across europe to act and ensuring, for the first time, that all polluting sectors, including agriculture, take responsibility for their emissions.
member states now need to act to fully implement the directive and furthermore step up their ambition in the fight against air pollution.
however, we have to ensure that banks are stable and well capitalised because they are fundamental to sustainable economic growth.
banks are key players in achieving this goal by bolstering the eu economy yet we have to ensure they are stable and well capitalised because they are fundamental to sustainable economic growth.
this leads to the potential of worsening environmental standards globally - in essence, outsourcing environmental damage.
we are very aware of the dangers of chemicals in our environment in wales.
lastly, i am delighted that we also have a reference to the social, environmental and gender dimension of vat on certain products.
we can and should use lower rates and zero rates to encourage renewable energy and the insulation of buildings, and to prevent discrimination against menstruating women.
any new vat system must of course promote economic growth in a sustainable way, while protecting public policy objectives.
therefore, it is really important that they take more environmental, social and corporate governance criteria into account when investing, but at the same time, if we want these funds to ensure they have a good return for future pensioners, it is important they improve the diversity of their portfolios, not just concentrating on investing in oecd countries with low economic growth.
in preparing my report i must thank my shadow rapporteurs, the committee on international trade, the committee on legal affairs, the committee on development and the committee on fisheries for their opinions, the secretariat of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, the policy team of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe (alde), and my own staff, who have all worked very hard on this report.
the eu and its member states must lead these efforts, ensuring that appropriate wildlife sustainability provisions are prioritised in its trade policy and included in all future trade agreements, with the aim of elimination of illegal wildlife trade.
it has far-reaching implications; not only does it contribute to biodiversity loss and species extinction, it also helps to fund organised criminal groups which undermine regional stability and the rule of law.
biodiversity is under huge pressure; climate change and human pressure on wildlife areas are adding to that, but wildlife trafficking is a concerted attack for profit.
there are positive aspects to the report, including criticism of the level of control responsibilities assigned to member states; a call for a bigger role of the risk analysis on an investment decision; and calls for social and environmental risks to be included in the risk analysis carried out by pension funds.
i was glad to see the obligation to include environmental and social assessments in the investment and risk management procedure, as well as increased transparency.
and pension schemes will now have to make sure they are investing for the long term, considering the social and environmental implications of their investments, which is a major step forward.
pension schemes will now have to make sure they are investing for the long term, considering the social and environmental implications of their investments, which is a major step forward.
and pension schemes will now have to make sure they are investing for the long term, considering the social and environmental implications of their investments, which is a major step forward.
and pension schemes will now have to make sure they are investing for the long term, considering the social and environmental implications of their investments, which is a major step forward.
and pension schemes will also now have to make sure they are investing for the long term, considering the social and environmental implications of their investments, which is a major step forward.
– we voted in favour of this report on the eu action plan against wildlife trafficking, which has become one of the largest and most profitable forms of cross-border crime at the same time as global biodiversity is being severely threatened.
‒ i voted in favour of the report which states that wildlife crime needs to be recognised as a major international issue, with profound implications for the environment, governance, local economies, and so on.
wildlife crime needs to be recognised as a major international issue, with profound implications on the environment, governance, local economies, and so on.
wildlife crime needs to be recognised as a major international issue, with profound implications on the environment, governance, local economies, and so on.
wildlife crime must be recognised as a major international issue, with profound implications for the environment, bio-diversity, governance, sustainable tourism, local economies, and so on.
there have been questions raised over the planning processes’ compliance with international safety standards and other requirements of the belarusian government through its membership of the international atomic energy agency.
we are only compelled to consider it because the commission has failed to deliver a sustainable strategy for west africa.
we have a duty to be coherent with our global sustainable development goals, and this agreement is not about value-based trade.
madam president, while i of course acknowledge that the interim epa does not fully meet my group’s requirements for a free trade agreement – especially given the absence of a trade and sustainable development chapter – as we have just heard, we should remind ourselves that we are talking about ghana: a vibrant, constitutional democracy, committed to implementing the un sustainable development goals, sadly almost an exception in africa.
this government, supported by the main political parties and national organisations, is embarking on the implementation of the major reforms needed to build a sustainable and inclusive growth model.
in this environment, some are tempted to withdraw into themselves, to reject the other and to resort to violence.
‒ i voted in favour for the assessment of the european union solidarity fund enabling eu to respond to major natural disasters that have a direct impact on people’s lives, the natural environment and the economy in a given affected region.
‒ given the current political climate, the protection of citizens’ personal information and data, either between states or in general on the internet, is a key issue that policy-makers must tackle.
this agreement will be detrimental to the majority of people of ghana and it does not contain a sustainable development chapter.
the agreement falls short on sustainable development and labour rights criteria, and risks to interfere with regional integration under ecowas.
i also support the notion in the 2016 budget of increasing assistance to member states in the event of a major natural disaster with serious repercussions on living conditions, the natural environment or the economy, both in commitment and in payment appropriations.
fundamentally there will also be cuts to tackling climate change, cuts to the european institute for gender equality, social and cohesion funding which was forecast to be a 23.5 % reduction compared to 2016. all this whilst trust funds for turkey, africa, etc.
i have supported an increase in the eu budget to enable us to act on climate change, build a truly sustainable economy and deal with the crises that face us.
if we say we are going to tackle climate change we must have the resources to do so.
however in light of the tragic human suffering in cases of environmental disaster we have chosen to abstain.
however in light of the tragic human suffering in cases of environmental disaster we have chosen to abstain.
the case of energy commissioner miguel arias cañete shows that the current system does not suffice.
the case of energy commissioner miguel arias cañete shows that the current system does not suffice.
although the idea of protecting both the environment by raising security standards and the idea of compensating inhabitants and workers of hard-hit areas is one i completely agree on, the usurpation of powers from member states to the eu in this creates a subsidiarity issue.
effective and adequate measures need to be taken in order to compensate adequately claims on damage to victims, animals and the environment.
the report focuses on the importance of updating existing liability systems in the member states to ensure the application of the polluter-pays principle not only to environmental but also to traditional damages (bodily injuries/ property damages/ pure and consequential economic losses).
the report focuses on the importance of updating existing liability systems in the member states to ensure the application of the polluter-pays principle not only to environmental but also to traditional damages (bodily injuries/property damages/pure and consequential economic losses).
‒ i opposed this resolution, which contained such politically-correct suggestions as calling on the european union to include a ‘gender dimension on all its energy policies’.
there are further calls for eu action on a matter which should not be the business of the eu: energy policy should be decided by national governments.
moreover, ukip does not agree with calls in this resolution to include a gender dimension in all energy policies.
moreover, ukip does not agree with calls in this resolution to include a gender dimension in all energy policies.
‒ i vote in favour of access to energy in developing countries.
i support this notion because access to energy can be seen as a key feature for development as well as having sustainable modern energy contributing to the present environmental issues, as firewood and charcoal currently dominate africa’s energy consumption.
‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on access to energy in developing countries.
providing access to sustainable, reliable and modern energy in poor countries is a key driver of development and a goal that the eu and its member states have committed to in signing the sustainable development goals last year.
moreover, ukip does not agree with calls in this resolution to include a gender dimension in all energy policies.
‒ today i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on access to energy in developing countries.
providing access to sustainable, reliable and modern energy in poor countries is a key driver of development and a goal that the eu and its member states have committed to in signing the sustainable development goals last year.
‒ i reiterate that the eu must continue to play a leading global role in pushing for sustainable energy and the fight against climate change, particularly given the worrying political developments in the us.
as greens, we also sought to have environmental criteria when setting charges for port services and were sorry to see this removed.
worse still, the references we had added to the need to ensure strict adherence to eu law to protect the environment were also removed.
a glimmer of hope can be found in the support for the use of short—sea shipping and inland waterways and railways for the delivery of goods, reducing the need for long distance road freight and the traffic congestion and unnecessary emissions it causes.
but overall i have to say that we are disappointed in this proposal and consider that an opportunity to reduce the negative environmental impact of europe’s ports has been missed.
finally, scientists have difficulty in determining with certainty the level of sustainable fishing.
although strict, these measures should better protect marine ecosystems and preserve sustainable fisheries, so i will vote in favour of them.
a subtropical atmospheric river unleashed devastation on large parts of northern england, scotland, wales and ireland, the like of which had not been seen before.
i welcome this ‘clean energy for all’ package, and i am glad it is called clean rather than green because i want to concentrate on the word clean.
i am not talking about clean in terms of radical reductions in carbon, although i know that is the main focus for most people today, and that is very important.
i am talking as the recent rapporteur for the national emission ceilings directive about being clean of pollutants other than carbon – that is nox, pm, etc.
i particularly welcome the focus of this package on consumers, which is important as it is ultimately by adapting consumption patterns in energy and much more generally in the way we live that we can truly transition to a clean, low-carbon economy rather than a low-energy one.
i would like to see very specific measures to tackle the problems associated with outdated carbon-heavy district heating schemes in some parts of the eu.
madam president, a recent study from the westminster parliament indicates that current green policies will cost uk energy users as much as gbp 300 billion by 2030. this will do huge economic damage, yet both the national grid and our energy regulator ofgem are warning that over-reliance on intermittent renewables, coupled with the closure of baseload capacity forced by the large combustion plant directive, threaten power outages this winter.
we are going to save the planet and cut co2 emissions by relying on diesel generators for backup.
by contrast, we are accustomed to secure supplies of energy available at the flick of a switch, but now these green policies threaten to send us back to the dark ages where our own power supplies are vulnerable to the vagaries of wind and weather, with dire social and economic consequences.
in my party we demand secure and affordable energy for homes, for pensioners, for industry.
for these reasons, we oppose the commission’s energy package and we oppose its obsession with renewable energy.
madam president, commissioners, just like the customs union and the single market, the uk government is being incredibly silent on the issue of the internal energy market.
today’s clean energy package highlights that the eu is leading the way when it comes to promoting renewable energy, making our buildings more energy efficient, decarbonising our economy and fighting energy poverty.
however, i believe that we can be more ambitious, especially in terms of energy efficiency.
it is paramount that the uk remains within the internal energy market, and that we don’t listen to the usual climate change denial claptrap of ukip.
outside the internal energy market, the uk will lag behind its 27 neighbours.
not only is that bad for the environment, but it is bad for our industries and the sustainable green jobs of the future.
energy is not a commodity.
is it a united kingdom that turns its back on the climate, or a leader promoting jobs alongside our neighbours?
so long as the uk continues to contribute to the eu central budget we will continue to oppose any legislation that would waste the money of the eu taxpayer.
so long as the uk continues to contribute to the eu central budget we will continue to oppose any legislation that would waste the money of the eu taxpayer.
so long as the uk continues to contribute to the eu central budget we will continue to oppose any legislation that would waste the money of the eu taxpayer.
so long as the uk continues to contribute to the eu central budget, i will continue to oppose any legislation that would waste the money of the eu taxpayer.
so long as the uk continues to contribute to the eu central budget we will continue to oppose any legislation that would waste the money of the eu taxpayer.
wales has a unique and treasured coastline and protecting our natural assets is essential to our economy as well as our environment.
the challenges of building the right environment for companies to create jobs.
i note that uzbekistan has made genuine steps towards improving workers’ rights in recent years and that further trade deals will help to build a safer working environment in that country.
i note that uzbekistan has made genuine steps towards improving workers’ rights in recent years and that further trade deals will help build a safer working environment in that country.
‒ this free trade agreement will not only boost trade between the eu and ecuador, but will also contribute to improving labour rights and environmental standards in the country through the provisions of the trade and sustainable development chapter.
it ensures that fishing vessels from denmark, norway and sweden operating in the area comply with the relevant laws, regulations and control and enforcement measures for the conservation and sustainable use of the living resources in the skagerrak.
it ensures that fishing vessels from denmark, norway and sweden operating in the area comply with the relevant laws, regulations and control and enforcement measures for the conservation and sustainable use of the living resources in the skagerrak.
it is not for the eu to determine what may be constituted as competitive in a member state without fully understanding the economic climate of that member state and what implications any restriction or forced competitive process may have.
it is not for the eu to determine what may be constituted as competitive in a member state without fully understanding the economic climate of that member state and what implications any restriction or forced competitive process may have.
it is not for the eu to determine what may be constituted as competitive in a member state without fully understanding the economic climate of that member state and what implications any restriction or forced competitive process may have.
it is not for the eu to determine what may be constituted as competitive in a member state without fully understanding the economic climate of that member state and what implications any restriction or forced competitive process may have.
it is not for the eu to determine what may be constituted as competitive in a member state without fully understanding the economic climate of that member state and what implications any restriction or forced competitive process may have.
it is not for the eu to determine what may be constituted as competitive in a member state without fully understanding the economic climate of that member state and what implications any restriction or forced competitive process may have.
it is not for the eu to determine what may be constituted as competitive in a member state without fully understanding the economic climate of that member state and hat implications any restriction or forced competitive process may have.
it is not for the eu to determine what may be constituted as competitive in a member state without fully understanding the economic climate of that member state and what implications any restriction or forced competitive process may have.
it is not for the eu to determine what may be constituted as competitive in a member state without fully understanding the economic climate of that member state and what implications any restriction or forced competitive process may have.
it is not for the eu to determine what may be constituted as competitive in a member state without fully understanding the economic climate of that member state and what implications any restriction or forced competitive process may have.
it is not for the eu to determine what may be constituted as competitive in a member state without fully understanding the economic climate of that member state and what implications any restriction or forced competitive process may have.
it is not for the eu to determine what may be constituted as competitive in a member state without fully understanding the economic climate of that member state and what implications any restriction or forced competitive process may have.
it is not for the eu to determine what may be constituted as competitive in a member state without fully understanding the economic climate of that member state and what implications any restriction or forced competitive process may have.
‒ i voted in favour of this transparency regulation which introduces a legal framework allowing, but not requiring, member states and port management bodies to impose certain minimum requirements, including insistence on compliance with social and labour law, as well as safety, security and environmental sustainability.
he is a pro-eu politician whom we cannot trust to criticise, uncover and expose the fraud and waste in the eu budget.
he is a pro-eu politician whom we cannot trust to criticise, uncover and expose the fraud and waste in the eu budget.
he is a pro-eu politician whom we cannot trust to criticise, uncover and expose the fraud and waste in the eu budget.
he is a pro-eu politician whom we cannot trust to criticise, uncover and expose the fraud and waste in the eu budget.
he is a pro-eu politician whom we cannot trust to criticise, uncover and expose the fraud and waste in the eu budget.
climate change is the biggest threat facing us, and i have worked with stop climate chaos cymru and others to get stronger international action.
we have no wish to see it as a stable and sustainable pillar of eu policy in its current state.
the one-for-one approach of the eu-turkey deal is neither a sustainable nor fair solution.
every member state should shape policy and practices in order to provide high quality and sustainable healthcare services for all children in their own country.
strict controls are needed to prevent the entry of pests which can damage the livelihoods of producers and the environment.
plant pests have created significant problems for eu agriculture and biodiversity and it is important for the agricultural sector in wales that it is protected from that.
every eu member state should shape policy and practices to provide high quality and sustainable healthcare services for all children.