the concern is related to competition with russia, china and particularly the united states, the digital economy with billions of dollars of online sales without borders, the automotive industry, transport, telecommunications, media, food and agricultural products in view of the transatlantic agreement, even the energy sector, where competitiveness means wars and refugees, state funding is reduced in areas such as public health, education, welfare, but not for banks, whose recapitalization people pay, as they also pay legal tax payments on capital, rather than the alleged false credit that is given to tax havens.
in the europe of the 28, strengthening intercultural dialogue is a catalyst, especially in the field of fundamental rights, with the aim of promoting european values as set out in the eu charter of fundamental rights, and respect for the cultural, religious and human diversity, not only of european populations but also of those who legitimately seek a free environment of equality and social cohesion, to work and raise their children, hunted by the mob of war.
and in this environment of selfishness, nationalism, xenophobia, the cries are heard: it's all because of schengen!
these measures, which i voted in favour of, were adopted by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas for the period 2012-2014 and are aimed at the sustainable management of tuna stocks and the respect of quota provisions in the atlantic ocean and adjacent seas.
in addition to voting in favour of the measures, we also succeeded in passing our amendment, which concerned owners of large fishing vessels and the negative impact of their activities on the sustainability of fisheries.
it is the member states which must step up their efforts to conserve biodiversity and their own economies.
it is up to the member states to step up their efforts to conserve biodiversity and their own economies.
‒ the the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one.
in addition, this report looks forward to the efficiency and effectiveness that legislation must demonstrate in the real economy environment.
finally, through freedom and full equality of the sexes, a new role for women emerges in today's rapidly changing economic environment, but one that puts the institution of the family aside.
finally, through freedom and full equality of the sexes, a new role for women emerges in today's rapidly changing economic environment, a role which inevitably sidelines the institution of the family.
finally, through freedom and full equality of the sexes, a new role for women emerges in today's rapidly changing economic environment, a role which inevitably undermines the institution of the family.
despite the fact that the report acknowledges the need for efficient and sustainable quality job creation in europe, i decided to abstain.
this report, after extensive dialogue at all levels, has produced a text that sets out the necessary conditions for creating a flexible and more efficient digital environment, with multiple benefits for consumers, businesses, the economy, creativity and communications.
these are complemented by the escalation of imperialist interventions and wars, with the anti-terrorist campaign becoming yet another pretext for conquering new markets for energy sources and energy routes.
the result was that we had goods and many appliances in europe which proved to be dangerous, especially gas appliances, which were imported from china and caused a lot of accidents because of carbon monoxide leakage.
in fact, in countries with energy poverty such as greece, which has been hit by the memorandum, these incidents are unfortunately even more dramatic.
‒ the the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on gas appliances has economic as well as ecological implications for the daily lives of all european citizens.
the commission madam president, the imperialist contradictions in the balkans are becoming dangerously acute because of their geostrategic location next to areas torn by rivalries and wars, which are a transit point for refugees and energy pipelines, a field of major investment and a bridgehead for the european union and nato in areas of great interest to the russian bourgeoisie.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
i therefore choose to vote against the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community, of the one part, and kosovo, of the other part, as it promotes the recognition of kosovo as an independent state.
we do not negotiate the health of european citizens and we do not sacrifice our environmental ethics on the altar of profit and the perverse competition of multinationals.
we are in favour of setting up a committee of inquiry into emissions measurements in the motor vehicle industry because in this way motor vehicle manufacturers will be checked for concealment, infringements and there will be no room for deception as happened in the case of volkswagen.
i am voting against the proposal for a committee of inquiry into emissions measurements in the car industry because this would mean that car manufacturers would be checked for concealment, infringements and there would be no room for deception, as happened in the case of volkswagen.
we are in favour of setting up a committee of inquiry into emissions measurements in the motor industry, because in this way motor manufacturers will be checked for concealment, infringement and fraud as was done in the past with volkswagen.
the critical nature of this tool is demonstrated by the diversity of issues that affect citizens' reports, such as fundamental rights, human rights, the rights of persons with disabilities, the internal market, environmental law, industrial relations, migration policies, trade agreements, public health issues, child protection, transport and animal rights.
the critical nature of this tool is demonstrated by the diversity of issues that affect citizens' reports, such as fundamental rights, human rights, the rights of persons with disabilities, the internal market, environmental law, labour relations, migration policies, trade agreements, public health issues, child protection, transport and animal rights.
the critical nature of this tool is shown by the diversity of issues that affect citizens' reports, such as fundamental rights, human rights, the rights of persons with disabilities, the internal market, environmental law, labour relations, migration policies, trade agreements, public health issues, child protection, transport and animal rights.
i also explained that the low-interest-rate environment is actually a reflection of the current economic and structural conditions.
so when i am asked how long this will last: it will last until the economic environment improves.
i believe that sustainable development must come first and that cooperation between the countries of the region must be strengthened, because only then will there be growth and, with growth, we will not have large waves of economic migrants, who are now coming to europe.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
it is not possible for the rural population of most of the countries of the european union to enjoy minimal or even zero taxes on agricultural oil and energy, while at the same time in greece the troika and the memoranda impose an intolerable increase in taxes on agricultural oil, making agricultural production less and less competitive.
the commission mr president, in order to attract investors and to achieve sustainable economic growth, there must be a fair and equitable distribution of the tax burden to commercial enterprises.
today, in the era of globalization, technological advances are directly affecting the economic environment and enabling multinational corporations to bypass the restrictions of the tax system of different countries, to make smaller profits and to speculate at the expense of the people of all countries.
‒ i voted in favour of the specific amendments to the 1998 heavy metals protocol to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution, as they provide, inter alia, for stricter limit values for dust emissions from certain large fixed sources, as well as flexible transitional arrangements that will benefit parties that accede to it before the end of 2019. this amendment is fully in line with current eu legislation.
‒ the the recommendation on the draft council decision on the acceptance of the 1998 amendment to the protocol on heavy metals to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution is part of a wider effort to improve existing regulations and agreements.
as it directly concerns all european citizens affected by air pollution, i believe that it should be welcomed by all of us and that is why i have decided to vote in favour.
‒ i am voting in favour of the recommendation as the amendments to the 1998 protocol on heavy metals to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution are a necessary step towards protecting the environment, an issue that concerns us all, regardless of political orientation.
‒ i am voting in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the acceptance of the 1998 amendment to the protocol on heavy metals to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution, because it is comprehensive and well-founded.
‒ the 1998 protocol, as well as its subsequent amendments and additions, in particular those relating to persistent organic pollutants, are a necessary step towards environmental protection.
‒ i supported the recommendation by mr la via on the acceptance of the 1998 amendment to the protocol on heavy metals to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution.
this amendment will be an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment, while being fully in line with the existing eu legislation.
‒ i voted in favour of this amended protocol as it includes seven new substances, updated implementation requirements for various substances, updated restrictions on emissions of pcdd/pcdf from various sources, and adds pcbs to the list of substances affected by the overall annual emission limitations and reporting obligations.
‒ the the recommendation on the draft council decision on the acceptance of the 1998 amendments to the protocol on persistent organic pollutants to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution is part of the overall discussion we are having on the reduction of environmental pollutants.
i therefore believe it is particularly important to support such initiatives in order to improve the living conditions of citizens and to protect the environment itself.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting in favour of the recommendation as the amendments to the 1998 protocol on persistent organic pollutants to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution are a necessary step towards protecting the environment, an issue that concerns us all, regardless of political orientation.
‒ this report deals with the procedural improvement of the scope of the international convention on long-range transboundary air pollution, already endorsed by parties at international level and now to be transposed in the eu legislation framework through several legal instruments.
the acceptance of these procedural arms is necessary, given the damage to human health and to the environment caused by transboundary air pollution.
‒ i am voting in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the acceptance of the 1998 amendments to the protocol on persistent organic pollutants to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution, because it is comprehensive and well documented.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the 1998 protocol, as well as its subsequent amendments and additions, in particular those relating to persistent organic pollutants, are a necessary step towards environmental protection.
‒ i also supported the recommendation by mr la via to accept the amendments to the 1998 protocol on persistent organic pollutants to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution.
as in the case of transboundary air pollution, this amendment is moving in the right direction.
‒ the i voted against this report on the eu biodiversity strategy because it is a strategy to check the adequacy of legislation on nature (birds and habitats).
we also agreed that farmers must play an important role in the conservation of biodiversity and we believe that the instruments of the common agricultural policy should encourage farmers to tackle this issue.
the agreements also cover fisheries and the marine environment, invasive alien species, pollinators, illegal wildlife trafficking and deforestation, and the importance of research and innovation in this field.
finally, the socialist and democratic group supports the fruitful negotiations at commission level, which have managed to incorporate important points of our political group's proposals so that we have a holistic approach to biodiversity in agriculture and the environment, as well as to the conservation of genetic diversity.
‒ the report on the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy is part of our environment debate and activities.
it is an open secret that we need to take immediate action and initiatives to protect the environment.
‒ we are overwhelmed, environmental protection is our primary objective, our positions and ideology do not allow us to do anything but support all efforts to protect nature.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy, as environmental protection is a priority for me.
‒ this report deals with the biodiversity strategy of the eu.
biodiversity is therefore essential for people’s health and well—being, as well as for their economic prosperity.
it is important to underline that nowadays biodiversity is under severe pressure due to human activity.
deplorably, the european aim to halt biodiversity loss failed in 2010 and the eu undertook a new strategy in 2011. it is clear that without additional reforms, the eu will in 2020 again fail to achieve its targets.
‒ i am withdrawing from the report on the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy because it is not complete.
‒ the protection of the environment is our primary objective, and our positions and ideology allow us to do nothing but support all efforts to protect nature.
‒ the i voted in favour of the report on the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy, which gives a realistic picture of the situation at european level, while making substantive recommendations to the european commission and the council.
whether we like it or not, we must recognize that european commitments to protect biodiversity have repeatedly failed.
the commission madam president, in an environment of threat to the schengen area we must be honest with ourselves and our citizens.
‒ the we have today discussed the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the application of the safeguard clauses and the anti-circumvention mechanism providing for the temporary suspension of tariff preferences of the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of moldova, of the other part.
‒ the proposal for a regulation concerns the application of the anti-circumvention mechanism which provides for the temporary suspension of the tariff preferences of the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and moldova, of the other part.
‒ i was absent from the vote on the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the application of the safeguard clauses and the anti-circumvention mechanism providing for the temporary suspension of the tariff preferences of the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of moldova, of the other part, because it is not complete.
‒ the we have today discussed the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the implementation of the anti-circumvention mechanism providing for the temporary suspension of the tariff preferences of the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part.
‒ absent from the vote on the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the implementation of the anti-circumvention mechanism providing for the temporary suspension of tariff preferences of the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part, because it is not complete.
the authorised soybean is resistant to certain herbicides, therefore its cultivation could encourage a more liberal use of herbicides, which could be harmful to the environment or to human health.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ proposes that the commission withdraw the draft implementing decision on the placing on the market of products derived from genetically modified soybean fg72 (mst-fgø72-2) which is not in accordance with union law and cannot form the basis for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare and the environment.
‒ i am voting against the report in so far as it proposes that the commission withdraw the draft implementing decision on the placing on the market of products derived from genetically modified soybean fg72 (mst-fgø72-2) which is not in accordance with union law and cannot be the basis for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare and the environment.
given that fact, this motion underlines the non-conformity of this draft decision with the general european principles for ensuring a high level of protection of human and animal health, environment and consumer interests in relation to genetically modified food and calls on the commission to withdraw it.
‒ proposes that the commission withdraw the draft implementing decision on the placing on the market of products derived from genetically modified soybean fg72 (mst-fgø72-2) which is not in accordance with union law and cannot form the basis for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare and the environment.
for all these reasons i voted in favour of the objection, as we believe that the commission should come forward with a new proposal on genetically modified food and feed, which will assess the environmental impact of gmos more precisely.
‒ proposes that the commission withdraw the draft implementing decision on the placing on the market of genetically modified soybean products of the mon 87708 × mon 89788 series (mon-877ø8-9 × mon-89788-1) which is not in accordance with union law and cannot form the basis for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare and the environment.
‒ i reject the report in question as it proposes that the commission withdraw the draft implementing decision on the placing on the market of genetically modified soybean products of the mon 87708 × mon 89788 series (mon-877ø8-9 × mon-89788-1) which is not in accordance with union law and cannot be the basis for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare and the environment.
‒ the placing on the market of products derived from genetically modified soya is not in accordance with union law and cannot form the basis for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare and the environment.
‒ i voted in favour of the proposal by mr la via, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
the resolution sets out the conditions for strengthening food safety, protecting the environment and the consumer.
for all these reasons i voted in favour of the objection, as we believe that the commission should come forward with a new proposal on genetically modified food and feed, which will assess the environmental impact of gmos more precisely.
‒ proposes that the commission withdraw the draft implementing decision on the placing on the market of genetically modified soybean products of the mon 87705 × mon 89788 series (mon-877ø5-6 × mon-89788-1) which is not in accordance with union law and cannot form the basis for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare and the environment.
‒ i reject the report in question as it proposes that the commission withdraw the draft implementing decision on the placing on the market of products derived from genetically modified soybean mon 87705 × mon 89788 (mon-877ø5-6 × mon-89788-1) which is not in accordance with union law and cannot be the basis for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare and the environment.
‒ the placing on the market of products derived from genetically modified soya is not in accordance with union law and cannot form the basis for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare and the environment.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ taking into account the catastrophic effects of air pollution per year, calls on the commission to withdraw the draft regulation and to submit a new draft without delay by 1 april 2016 at the latest, in order to introduce real driving emissions testing for all vehicles to ensure the effectiveness of control systems;
in writing.
‒ given the devastating effects of air pollution on the environment, i am voting in favour of the report and agree that the draft regulation should be withdrawn and that the commission should submit a new draft without delay by 1 april 2016 at the latest, in order to introduce real driving emissions testing for all vehicles to ensure the effectiveness of the control systems.
‒ i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution based on the objection under rule 106 concerning the draft commission regulation (eu) amending regulation (ec) no 692/2008 as regards emissions from light passenger and commercial vehicles (euro 6) because it is complete and well-founded.
‒ taking into account the devastating effects of air pollution on the environment, calls on the commission to withdraw this draft regulation and to submit a new one without delay, in order to introduce real driving emissions testing for all vehicles to ensure the effectiveness of control systems.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which strengthens the eu institutional framework and which is designed to ensure the smooth functioning of industry in line with our decisions and the environment 2020 strategy.
but tisa instead is a new plurilateral agreement negotiated by a club of rich countries, which remains in favour of multinational companies, at the expense of quality jobs, the environment and data protection.
tisa, like other similar agreements, swept away any labor rights, any measures to protect public health, safety, the environment, subordinated to the pursuit of maximum profit.
tisa, like other similar agreements, swept away any labor rights, any measures to protect public health, safety, the environment, subordinated to the pursuit of maximum profit.
the commission the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
‒ we support rural development as a prerequisite for sustainable development in the member states.
‒ i am voting against the report, as i consider rural development to be a key condition for sustainable development in the member states.
‒ rural development is a key prerequisite for the sustainable development of the member states of the union.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the political group of the socialists and democrats in the european parliament voted in favour of this decision as it is our wish that negotiating capitals on the creation of strong trade links and sustainable development be included in all trade negotiations starting with australia and new zealand.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative of proposing a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers.
i am very much aware that the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's food aid is not used to the detriment of the environment, and that the commission has also taken steps to ensure that the community's food aid is used to the detriment of the environment.
the globalisation of trade and climate change pose serious risks to both animal and consumer health and the european union should therefore simplify and intensify checks on animals imported from outside the european union in order to ensure food safety and prevent the transmission of diseases to consumers.
only the creation of a stable legal environment governed by fair conditions of competition and specific rules of transparency can attract investment in ports, contributing to the development of the european union economy, especially in times of economic crisis.
it provides for the environmental sustainability of port services, and all this in conditions of transparency.
the aim of the report is to promote port development, the smooth functioning of the single market and the creation of an environment favourable to port and shipping activity, balancing the interests of port managers and users of port services.
at the same time, it has already succeeded in closing borders at will, turning greece into a camp for the unfortunate and monetizing the pollution of its peace with per capita amounts for each refugee, effectively abolishing asylum and violating international treaties.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ positive, because it is purely a matter of safety but above all a matter of health and protection of the already contaminated environment.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the reduction of the sulphur content of certain liquid fuels, because it is purely a matter of safety but above all a matter of health and protection of the already polluted environment.
‒ this report concerns a proposal to reduce the emissions of sulphur content of certain liquid fuels.
we have to reduce the harmful effects of such emissions on man and on the environment through the reduction of sulphur.
key issues covered include: refugees and the migration crisis, the european fund for strategic investments (efsi), economic development, the employment initiative, the new child (poverty) guarantees, climate change, the payments crisis, eu aid funds and the refugee facility for turkey.
the commission mr president, the accession of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia - the country's official name, which the report ignores - to the european union is aimed at strengthening european capital in the balkans as an energy corridor, an investment area and a geostrategic front against russian interests.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
the elections to be held later this year are crucial for stability and we hope that they will be held in the best possible political climate.
the veterinary industry must therefore ensure that medicinal substances placed on the market are not harmful to public health, animal health and the environment and we should also pay particular attention to antibiotics administered to food-producing animals.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
for health and environmental safety, authorised veterinary medicinal products should be used as a priority.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the integration of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia - the official name of the country not covered by the 2015 progress report - into the european union aims to strengthen european capital in the balkans as an energy corridor, investment area and geostrategic front against russian interests.
the commission madam president, coastal fishing is a socially sustainable form of fishing which, according to the common fisheries policy, can increase competitiveness and entrepreneurship in the fisheries sector.
in the context of the united nations convention on the law of the sea, the united nations general assembly decided to establish an international legally binding instrument for the conservation and sustainable use of marine biodiversity.
in particular, it was stressed that this objective must be achieved and that the european union's fishing industry and market should be oriented towards sustainability.
a reasonable external dimension of the common fisheries policy must safeguard the interests of european fishermen, especially the smallest ones, and require sustainability, food security and the fight against illegal fishing outside the european union, because the impact on marine ecosystems knows no bounds.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not only economically viable, but also has a positive impact on the environment.
‒ we voted today on the report on fisheries aspects of the international agreement on marine biodiversity in areas beyond national jurisdiction.
it is clear that this issue is directly linked to environmental issues and the protection of natural balances.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ biodiversity, not just in the sea but everywhere, is something we need to look after to ensure that it lasts.
‒ i am voting in favour of the report on fisheries issues in the context of the international agreement on marine biodiversity in areas beyond national jurisdiction, united nations convention on the law of the sea, for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 11/4/2016, and because the report is comprehensive and well-documented.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ biodiversity, and not just in the sea, is something we must look after if it is to last.
‒ i supported the report on fisheries aspects of the international agreement on marine biodiversity beyond national jurisdiction - the united nations convention on the law of the sea, as it is extremely important to include fishing activities in this new instrument.
the commission has already taken the initiative in the area of the environment, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for her report.
this so-called 'sustainable integration into the labour market', which entails even greater intensification of exploitation for workers and profitability for monopolies, is the focus of the report, which calls on employers 'to participate actively in the design, organisation and implementation of vocational education and training'.
it guarantees a high level of employment and is a socially and environmentally sustainable form of fishing.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
coastal fishing guarantees a high level of employment in coastal areas and is generally a socially and environmentally sustainable form of fishing.
the report deals with environmental, economic and social issues.
as it relates to a specific fisheries sector, it contains specific proposals and manages to focus on environmental protection issues, but also on good practices in relation to marine fauna and the overexploitation of specific areas.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i agree and vote in favour of the report as it promotes a more realistic and sustainable form of fishing, based on tradition and local community away from the industrialisation of this profession.
this need arises not only from the lower environmental impact of coastal fishing but also from the fact that some coastal and island regions are suffering from economic recession and are unable to achieve sufficient development and innovation.
‒ the the report promotes a more realistic and sustainable form of fishing based on tradition and local community away from the industrialisation of this profession.
‒ the report on the establishment of common provisions for the implementation of the external dimension of the cap, including fisheries agreements, raises the question of improving fisheries policies in order to adopt a better regulatory framework, protect the ecosystem and improve cooperation between the eu and third countries.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers.
the commission the european union has made the wrong choices in the major crisis affecting its environment.
‒ the i voted against the article 106 objection to the renewal of the approval of the active substance glyphosate because the objection is contrary to the draft measure on the grounds that the draft implementing act fails to ensure a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment and fails to apply the precautionary principle.
‒ the this european parliament report emphasises the need to shape a union that has an effective and strategic role on the international stage, so that it can meet as an autonomous actor the challenges arising from the constantly changing global environment in which we live today.
‒ the the report on the eu's presence in a changing global environment covers a range of issues in the light of contemporary needs facing the european union, such as terrorism and security strategies, citizen participation in decision-making and global governance.
‒ i am voting against the report on the eu in a changing global environment a more connected, controversial and complex world, for the reasons i detailed in my speech to the european parliament's plenary in strasbourg on 12 april 2016, and because the report is not complete and well-founded.
‒ the the report on the role of the eu in a changing global environment is a polemical call by the representatives of capital for the intensification of the eu's military aggressiveness in defending and expanding the positions of the monopolies it serves across the globe.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
‒ i voted in favour of this report as it is part of the european union's broader effort to expand its relations with the countries of central asia, given that they have important security and energy interests.
‒ the priorities for the central asia strategy are human rights, the rule of law, trade, energy and transport.
the partnership is about mutual interest, sustainable development and human rights.
energy poverty, rooted in growing poverty, prevents households from paying for gas, oil or electricity.
the meszerics report rightly says that energy poverty is caused by poverty, inequality and unemployment.
unfortunately, the commission's plan for a european pillar of social rights is preparing us for a cold winter with even greater energy poverty.
the commission the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not left behind, and that the commission is not obliged to take any action to ensure that the energy sector is not left behind.
their investments in developing countries do not solve the problem of underdevelopment, but rather exacerbate it, while remaining blind, as companies and actions, to the ecological crisis, and also increasing migration flows into the european union to unmanageable levels.
since the 2009 coup against zelaya, rights violations and the climate of impunity have continued to grow in the country.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission and the member states are called upon to do more to tackle poverty, such as the creation of a european energy observatory, the suspension of heating cuts for households in dire economic straits and provision for a minimum income above 60% of the average national income of all member states.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr pirinski, for his report and, in reply to mr moscovici and mr hoyer, to say that the main idea of our committee's opinion is that we urgently need more investment and a shift towards sustainable development.
moreover, under the climate action objective, it financed 84 environmental projects, and the ecb has already bought eib bonds on the secondary market, with a view to quantitative easing, thus enhancing the eib's liquidity.
the main objective of the report is to upgrade and improve interoperability rules to meet new needs by clarifying existing rules, simplifying time-consuming and costly authorisations for rolling stock, energy and infrastructure, and ensuring vehicle interoperability in the eu through a european vehicle licence to be granted by the european railway agency and the creation of a european register.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2014, as it is an integral part of the european union's effort to achieve objectives and results at european policy level.
‒ the the report on the discharge to be given to the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 constitutes a standard procedure with regard to decisions taken and actions taken in respect of the management of the budget.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report as the cvs and declarations of interests of the members of the management board, the chairs, vice-chairs and heads of the working groups of the energy regulators cooperation organisation have not been published in full.
‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient evidence as regards the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2014.
s&d), in writing.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2014, as it is an integral part of the european union's effort to achieve objectives and results at european policy level.
‒ the the report on the discharge to be given to the european environment agency in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 constitutes a standard procedure with regard to decisions taken and actions taken in respect of the management of the budget.
‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient information on the implementation of the budget of the agency concerned under voting, i am voting against the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2014.
s&d), in writing.
‒ i voted in favour of this report on the 2014 annual report of the european investment bank as it sends clear messages to the bank, among other things, to ensure coherence and complementarity with the investments of the structural and other funds, to develop the appropriate strategy to manage refugee flows, to promote youth employment, innovation and smes, and to enhance environmental sustainability and action against climate change.
however, it also points out that there are significant problems arising from the use, in many cases, of eib financing to support economically unsustainable infrastructure projects, in relation to public interest and environmental measures.
it is characteristic that for mountain areas, whose populations suffer from dramatic shortages of public health, welfare and education infrastructure, the european parliament, the european union and its governments propose that cohesion fund funds be directed to renewable energy projects in order to offer large and rapid gains to industry groups.
the commission mr president, mountain areas cover about 30% of the union's territory and many of them are rich in natural resources and renewable energy sources.
at the same time, the implementation of the rural development programme for greece for 2014-2020 should be accelerated, as it includes funding of eur 4,7 billion and it should be ensured that the aid is given to the farmers themselves, so as to cover 10,3% of the agricultural area for biodiversity conservation, 12,1% for improved water management and 10,7% for land management.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community's energy policy is not in line with the community's energy policy.
at the same time, the commission must ensure that all member states, not just germany, have the same opportunities to build energy infrastructure, at least in legal terms.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster, which is a matter of concern to the community, is a very important one, and i would like to ask the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the directive is implemented in a way that is compatible with the directive.
a sound external fisheries policy of the union must safeguard the interests of european fishermen, especially small-scale fishermen, and require sustainability, food security and the fight against illegal fishing outside the european union.
‒ the i voted against the report on the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of liberia, which states that if the eu does not act, it will allow private agreements to emerge which cannot guarantee the sustainable development of fisheries.
‒ we voted today on the recommendation on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of liberia and its implementation protocol.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ votes against the recommendation as the proposed sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and the republic of liberia and its implementation protocol will result in the application of strict control and supervision by eu monitoring mechanisms of the liberian exclusive economic zone, which would mark direct eu involvement in a highly important area of national sovereignty of a third country.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the recommendation as the proposed sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and the republic of liberia and its implementation protocol will result in the application of strict control and surveillance by eu monitoring mechanisms of the liberian exclusive economic zone, which would mark direct eu involvement in a highly important area of third country national sovereignty.
‒ the this recommendation refers to the conclusion of the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement and its implementation protocol between the european union and liberia.
‒ i am voting in favour of the recommendation on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of liberia and its implementation protocol, for the reasons set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 9 may 2016 and because this recommendation is complete and well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the proposed sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and the republic of liberia and its implementation protocol will result in the implementation of strict control and surveillance by eu monitoring mechanisms of the liberian exclusive economic zone, which marks direct eu involvement in a highly important area of third country sovereignty.
eu support for fisheries policy is based on support for scientific and technical cooperation, training, fisheries monitoring, environmental protection and infrastructure development.
‒ the the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionising radiation.
‒ i voted in favour, endorsing the initiative of the committee on industry, research and energy, which was approved by an increased majority in the house, supported by most political groups.
‒ the i voted in favour of the report on cohesion policy in the eu's mountain regions because it refers to the importance of these regions and how they can contribute to development strategies such as europe 2020. the rich diversity of renewable energy sources in these regions, as well as the natural resources they possess, can make a significant contribution to both the achievement of the union's energy objectives and the fight against unemployment, in particular through green employment, which also aims at combating climate change.
‒ the the report on cohesion policy in the eu's mountain regions addresses important environmental and economic issues.
cohesion policy can and should be linked to corresponding policies concerning the urban environment, as they are inextricably linked.
the aforementioned proposals are crucial in order to address the infrastructural, economic and environmental challenge that these regions are facing.
i strongly believe that the improvement of living conditions in mountainous regions, as well as in other disadvantaged regions like outermost and volcanic areas, can lead to a better social, territorial and economic cohesion by providing new green jobs and renewable energy sources.
the report recommends the conditions necessary for job creation and economic development in the mountains, highlights the issue of the interconnection of inaccessible areas and their accessibility, taking into account the preservation and protection of their environmental wealth as well as their social and economic dimension and specificity.
the tax evasion of the greek people's wealth has hit a ceiling and the debt, from 125% of gdp in 2010, reaches 200% of gdp in 2016. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
we have finally had some positive news that can help greece and the greek people to finally secure greater political and economic stability, a quicker return to growth on the basis of the optimistic forecasts made by the commission and mr moscovici and ensuring debt sustainability without any burden on the european taxpayer.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, at yesterday's eurogroup meeting it was agreed that the sustainability of greek public debt requires measures in the short, medium and long term.
in addition, imports from mercosur countries do not meet the high quality and environmental standards of the european union and there is a food safety concern as meat from cloned animals is circulating in argentina.
the commission madam president, the objective of the 2030 agenda is to help the member states of the european union to fight poverty and achieve sustainable development.
in particular, in line with the 2030 agenda, in order to achieve the objective of sustainable development, issues such as poverty, climate change, health, education and gender equality should be addressed.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
economic operators covering a wide range of trading activities in energy and commodity markets.
the report is positive, because it promotes a better cohesion policy with faster implementation, no delays in payments, more administrative capacity and sustainable development, but it does not cover me fully.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and that the council should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000.
the commission madam president, in an era of economic crisis, forced fiscal adjustment, merkel austerity and the dismantling of the welfare state, fighting inequalities and promoting sustainable and inclusive growth is a pipe dream.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area.
it is, and will remain for several years, the first of the renewable energy sources and therefore plays a key role in achieving the objectives of horizon 2030. it is no coincidence that in the sale of ppps in greece, which is being attempted by the troika and the governments of the memorandum, hydroelectric dams are a first-class steak for potential investors.
the hydropower sector, however, needs the necessary investments to remain competitive: investments in innovation, as well as in improving the efficiency of existing capacity, and in managing and preventing the environmental impacts of hydropower dams.
‒ the motion for a resolution on the follow-up and progress of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development is a positive attempt to analyse the results and progress of the 2030 agenda as set out in previous debates.
for these reasons, i am voting against the follow-up action and the development of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development.
the text reflects the global framework for sustainable development and the eu's overall strategy for achieving the objectives of agenda 2030.
in writing.
the commission mr president, because in the 21st century, with such technological development, while energy is fuelling rivalries and wars, more and more households are condemned to energy poverty.
but the capitalist road, the european union's policy of liberalising and privatising energy, is a class policy, meaning profits for the big industrialists and poverty for the households.
the report calls for energy democracy and recommends that energy be produced by consumers themselves, i.e.
only with a different economy, workers' power, can energy from a commodity become a popular right to meet modern needs.
the commission mr president, in greece, mr šefčovič, where you were a few days ago, the energy costs for consumers are not borne by a lack of competition, but by excessive taxes, which is a matter for which the troika and the memoranda bear a great deal of responsibility.
energy poverty affects, according to a study by the european parliament, 36% of greek households.
as if this 3rd memorandum were not enough, it added huge increases in taxes on heating oil and kerosene, increases that only reduce consumption and state revenues, while imposing, at the same time, energy insecurity and burning of unsuitable heating materials, which led to smog in many parts of greece.
it imposes taxation on the incomes and real estate of the greek people, the troika's control of public revenues, the sale of energy resources, the taking over of the management of banks by foreigners and the sale of red loans to crows.
while online services and the increasing access of citizens to a technologically advanced environment are favouring the development of virtual currencies, we are obliged to highlight the risks that exist, as well as to consider all the data as the report points out.
‒ the i voted in favour of the report on the new energy consumer agreement, which refers to the energy union, which should be at the core of citizens and contribute to the design of energy policy and the protection of consumers from non-competitive and unfair practices by suppliers.
the report also proposes measures to ensure the proper functioning of the energy market and makes suggestions for saving consumers money on their energy bills.
‒ the report on a new energy consumer agreement focuses exclusively on household energy consumers and aims to transition to an economy based entirely on renewable energy sources, provide stable, affordable, efficient and sustainable energy and eliminate the energy deficit.
‒ i voted against the report because the energy needs and energy efficiency of the member states differ substantially and therefore cannot be brought under full eu control without considerable losses, especially for the energy-rich states.
‒ i voted in favour of this report, which focuses on household energy consumers because of the important role they can play in the ongoing energy transition.
in the light of the commission communication entitled 'a new deal for energy consumers', it is emphasised that measures taken to achieve the energy union should promote consumer protection, ensure better information on consumers' rights and ways of managing energy resources more efficiently and enhance eu-wide coordination to combat energy poverty.
‒ i am voting in favour of the report on a new agreement for energy consumers for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary in brussels on 25 may 2015, and because the report is comprehensive and well-founded.
‒ it is proposed that the report be voted on as the energy needs and energy efficiency of the member states differ substantially and therefore cannot be brought under full eu control without significant losses, especially for the energy-rich states.
the group of the party of european socialists supports a more holistic vision of the single market based on a green, social market economy based on knowledge, which will improve the well-being of european citizens by proposing practical measures aimed at ensuring equal treatment and social inclusion, the creation of sustainable jobs and growth and high-quality consumer protection.
but instead of focusing on sustainable development, on reducing poverty and the enormous social inequalities on the world stage, the european union is ultimately continuing to insist on austerity and exploitation.
at the same time, the european union should monitor the impact of its agricultural and energy policies on people's living standards, ensure that income inequalities are reduced, ensure an effective health system for all and take measures to implement the paris cop21 agreement on climate change.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the association of the european atomic energy community with the european atomic energy community.
the commission mr president, belarus is one of the most developed countries of the former soviet union and the diplomatic orientation of the lukashenko government towards moscow should not be a reason for creating a negative climate on any pretext.
we know this very well from the chernobyl accident and obviously the government of belarus and all those involved in the construction of the new nuclear power plant in astrakhan must take all the necessary measures to ensure that the plant meets the safety standards of the international atomic energy agency.
the commission mr president, the construction of a nuclear power station in astraviets in belarus is of enormous importance for the energy policy of belarus and the union as regards the safety and protection of the nuclear power station and the environment.
it is obvious that belarus has every right to look for alternative forms of energy, considering that 90% of the gas it uses is imported from russia.
the protest, of course, is over the agreement between belarus and the russian company for the construction of the plant and the future waste management, and over the financing of the entire project by russia, which is worth $22 billion.
i think that belarus as a sovereign state can sign energy agreements without hints and prohibitions.
moreover, as regards the application of international accounting standards in a member state, there should be harmonisation of the institutional and legal environment and better information of auditors and accountants on the technical details of their application.
the protection of the rural sector and sustainable agriculture means subsidies to the right beneficiaries, it means a gentle and democratic modernisation of traditional small-scale and organic farming.
the american model - which some in europe are trying to impose on us through ttip - is certainly very effective only for the giants of the agri-food sector and the lobbies of the big producers, but it is destructive for the environment, our health and future generations.
in an age when sustainability has become a priority and the commitment of most of the world's major economies is there, the destruction of the european fabric of production will be the ultimate setback.
the commission has also been asked to provide the council with a report on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which is to be published in the official journal of the european union.
international cooperation on regulations could help to promote a transparent, efficient and competitive economic environment, while ensuring high levels of health and safety protection.
as emphasised, the establishment of common technological requirements is appropriate to be done within the framework of the un/eu agreement, as it will thus contribute to enhancing the competitiveness of the automotive industry and to creating a transparent, efficient and competitive economic environment.
this is why there needs to be tax transparency, accountability of development finance institutions to better monitor cash flows, and binding rules on climate and renewable energy.
this is why there needs to be tax transparency, accountability of development finance institutions to better monitor cash flows, and binding rules on climate and renewable energy.
this is why there needs to be tax transparency, accountability of development finance institutions to better monitor cash flows, and binding rules on climate and renewable energy.
in addition, an independent accountability mechanism should be established, land grabbing should be combated, and public-private partnerships should be more regulated and monitored, as well as respect for human rights, land rights, and social, environmental and labour standards.
this is why there needs to be tax transparency, accountability of development finance institutions to better monitor cash flows, and binding rules on climate and renewable energy.
i voted in favour of this report, alongside the group of the party of european socialists and democrats, as it promotes accounting standards to ensure financial stability and sustainable development and the deep reform of the process of preparing and applying accounting standards to ensure transparency and accountability.
‒ the i voted in favour of the report on technological solutions for sustainable agriculture because we must ensure that tomorrow's agriculture will be sustainable and able to feed an ever-growing population.
we have to deal with the food waste first.
innovation and research must accompany the future of agriculture, but always with a view to safe and healthy food, to improving the environment, and not only to protecting it but also to reducing the consumption of chemicals such as fertilisers and pesticides.
‒ the the report on technological solutions for sustainable agriculture in the eu is a very important issue which will have a major impact on the lives of european citizens in the long term.
the need to find solutions to the problems facing the agricultural sector, particularly in view of the environmental burden, is obvious.
the challenges of sustainable agriculture over time must be met with a common approach and not with technological solutions that will have a major environmental impact on the natural wealth of the member states, which is why we are voting against report a8-0174/2016.
the challenges of sustainable agriculture over time must be met with a common approach and not with technological solutions that will have a major environmental impact on the natural wealth of the member states, which is why i am voting against report a8-0174/2016.
‒ i voted against the report on technological solutions for sustainable agriculture in the eu for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament in strasbourg on 6 june 2016 and because the report is not complete and well-documented.
the challenges of sustainable agriculture over time must be met by a common approach and not by technological solutions which will have a major environmental impact on the natural wealth of the member states.
better management of natural resources is the key to sustainable agriculture.
but at the same time we have to deal with food waste.
the problem of food waste must be tackled at all levels of the food chain from production, processing and retailers to consumers, as 33% of food waste is generated by consumers.
young farmers, the environment and health are priorities and can benefit from these innovations.
young farmers, the environment and health are priorities and can benefit from these innovations.
‒ in the midst of demographical, dietary, environmental and economic changes, the agricultural sector will have to deal with an increased food demand and to ensure new methods of production.
the problems identified in the report, such as pollution and the productivity of land, water, product quality, etc., are being tackled in the context of the eu's strategy for competitiveness, exploiting its comparative advantages over other imperialist countries in the 'green economy', the quality of agricultural products, innovation and the use of new technologies.
young farmers, the environment and health are priorities and can benefit from these innovations.
the problems identified in the report, such as pollution and the productivity of land, water, product quality, etc., are being tackled in the context of the eu's strategy for competitiveness, exploiting its comparative advantages over other imperialist countries in the 'green economy', the quality of agricultural products, innovation and the use of new technologies.
if you convince us that this project will tackle the huge waste of resources and corruption in the implementation of actions through a mechanism of transparency and effective investigation of complaints by civil society, i believe that your proposal will be a valuable contribution.
decisions on space have a direct impact on the security of countries, but may also have long-term consequences for the natural environment.
not small businesses, of course, but only large companies in priority sectors not of the people but of capital, such as energy, transport, tourism, guaranteeing investors guaranteed profitability with a minimum of temporary jobs, poorly paid, while another wage cut is being planned.
the commission madam president, mr katainen, the juncker investment plan for greece has failed because the troika, in which the commission is also a member, has imposed a suffocating economic environment on greek society and business.
finally, the reference of the greek debt settlement to the greek calendars is burdensome for the economic climate and discourages investment.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ positive, because firstly, preventive measures should be taken for the transport of harmful goods by sea and then there should be the strictest fines for those responsible for environmental disasters in the event of an accident.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i vote against ratifying and acceding to the 2010 protocol to the convention on hazardous and noxious substances with the exception of aspects of judicial cooperation in civil matters, because first preventive measures should be taken for the transport of dangerous goods by sea and then there should be the strictest fines for those responsible for environmental disasters in the event of an accident.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ firstly, preventive measures should be taken for the transport of harmful goods by sea and then there should be strict fines for those responsible for environmental disasters in the event of an accident.
it is very important for our group, however, to give particular weight to respect for labour, social and environmental rights, and to effective monitoring and enforcement of fair trade provisions.
‒ the the eu has supported tunisia in its effort to transition to democracy despite the setback caused by the terrorist attacks of 2015. the socialist group in the european parliament and i personally voted in favour of this report, as we consider that additional macrofinancial assistance to tunisia is necessary as a measure to consolidate democracy in the country, create a friendly environment for investment and tackle the high unemployment rates.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on space capabilities for european security and defence because the security environment is becoming increasingly dangerous and challenging, both inside and outside the union, which has been facing terrorist attacks, hybrid warfare and mass killings affecting all member states.
the draft commission implementing decision does not achieve the objective of protecting health and the environment set out in directive 2001/18/ec and therefore exceeds the implementing powers provided for in that directive.
the draft commission implementing decision does not achieve the objective of protecting health and the environment set out in directive 2001/18/ec and therefore exceeds the implementing powers provided for in that directive.
‒ the draft commission implementing decision does not achieve the objective of protecting health and the environment set out in directive 2001/18/ec and therefore exceeds the implementing powers set out in that directive.
since whaling violates the rules of international law, undermines the protection of biodiversity and marine ecosystems and is not even required for scientific research, it is necessary for the european union to condemn japan's attitude towards the killing of whales.
at the same time, while there are leaks of documents proving the burdensome environmental provisions being worked out by ttip, the commission is continuing 'business as usual'.
the fact that rail travel is less harmful to the environment than other modes of transport should also be taken into account, as it involves lower average energy consumption per passenger per kilometre and therefore less greenhouse gas emissions.
finally, improving the european market environment for suppliers and encouraging demand for rail products must be a priority for us.
finally, improving the european market environment for suppliers and stimulating demand for rail products should be a priority.
finally, improving the european market environment for suppliers and encouraging demand for rail products must be a priority for us.
last december, we voted in favour of a motion condemning the illegal mining activities taking place in virunga national park, a park with the greatest biodiversity in africa and a unesco world heritage site.
the european union is also committed to the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
we should be concerned about why this is happening; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, which are not in the report.
however, according to opinions of the international council for the exploration of the sea, the current rates of exploitation of certain stocks are not consistent with achieving maximum sustainable development.
it is therefore necessary for the european union to take immediate action to ensure that the stocks of these three species in the baltic are fished in accordance with the principle of maximum sustainable yield.
this is an unacceptable situation and the european union must urgently get rid of this informal guardianship so that european investors can be active on the iranian market and in the energy sector.
the commission mr. president, in 1968, before there was a small step for man and a big step for mankind, researchers were warning the american petroleum institute that carbon dioxide emissions from fossil fuels could lead to global environmental changes.
48 years later, and while science and technology have made leaps, appropriate technologies for the optimal use of renewable energy sources are still not in place.
the deliberate concealment of scientific findings, the concealment of information and the deliberate misleading of public opinion have imposed the short-sighted policy of temporary profit-making on large corporations at the expense of corresponding sustainable options.
oil giants and corporations spend $115 million a year blocking climate policies.
at the same time, they are pushing for gas to emerge as the key technology with which europe will reduce carbon emissions economically, and the european union is addressing the situation by setting low targets and pursuing moderate policies.
we are committing crimes not only against the environment but also against our children.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not left behind.
the commission mr president, increasing energy efficiency and renewable energy is a social and ecological priority.
in greece, following the memoranda of understanding and austerity measures, 36% of the population suffer from energy poverty.
unfortunately, though, despite the fact that greek gdp per capita has fallen below 60% of the european average, the country has not been relieved of its obligations under the emissions trading system.
in addition, both reports recognise the need to support green energy solutions.
but greece has been excluded from the fund to support the modernisation of energy systems and the improvement of energy efficiency.
renewable energy is one answer to climate change.
at the same time, their development will reduce the european economy's dependence on energy sources from third countries, thus creating jobs in the european market struggling to recover from the economic crisis.
the next few years will be particularly crucial for achieving the binding target of 20% of final energy consumption by 2020 as set out in directive 2009/28/ec, and the corresponding 27% by 2030. individual countries are far from achieving their individually defined target, and there are large differences between sectors of activity.
the objective of using renewable energy sources in the electricity sector appears to be being met, but delays in the heating and cooling and transport sectors make it doubtful that the 2020 targets will be reached.
in order to meet the challenges of the future, with respect for the environment and a people-centred approach, coordinated policies and increased support systems are needed to make certain renewable energy technologies competitive.
efforts to further develop and use renewable energy sources and comprehensive planning to address energy poverty are essential to meet international commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
it is clear that this fund has been set up precisely to support working smes facing survival problems due to economic turmoil due to adaptation to a global environment.
the commission's proposal is to support a species threatened by overfishing and environmental risks, and we must support it.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a multiannual plan for cod, herring and sprat stocks in the baltic sea, as this plan provides for the balanced and sustainable exploitation of these stocks and the stability of fishing opportunities in the region.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on progress in renewable energy because it refers to the progress achieved on the eu 2020 targets as well as the framework for the 2030 targets.
‒ we voted today on the report on progress in the field of renewable energy sources.
i think it is obvious that such reports are promoting the selection of new energy sources, more environmentally friendly, and possibly to restart the economy, through the creation of investment and job prospects.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on progress in the field of renewable energy sources.
‒ i voted in favour of the progress report on renewable energy sources, as i believe that the development of renewable energy sources requires a new orientation that makes them the fundamental pillar of the european union's energy model.
the transition to a sustainable energy production model is a social priority that cannot be addressed by the market alone.
‒ i am voting against the report on the progress report on renewable energy sources for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament in brussels on 23 june 2016 and because the report is not complete and well-documented.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the in 1968 researchers warned the american petroleum institute that carbon dioxide emissions from fossil fuels could lead to global environmental changes.
48 years later and while science and technology have made leaps, appropriate technologies for the optimal use of renewable energy sources are still not being implemented.
the deliberate concealment of scientific findings, the concealment of information and the deliberate misleading of public opinion have imposed the short-sighted policy of temporary profit-making on large companies at the expense of corresponding sustainable options.
oil giants and corporations spend $115 million a year blocking climate policies.
at the same time, they are pressing for gas to emerge as the key technology by which europe will reduce carbon dioxide emissions economically.
not only at the expense of the environment, but especially at the expense of our children.
the development and implementation of renewable energy sources must be substantially supported and those responsible for obstruction must be punished.
‒ i took a positive stance by voting in favour of the progress report on renewable energy, a text supported by the vast majority of meps and most political groups, both in the committee on industry, research and energy and in the associated committees on the environment, public health and food safety, regional development and agriculture and rural development.
‒ the i voted in favour of the report on the implementation report on the energy efficiency directive (2012/27/eu) because it looks at how the energy efficiency directive has been implemented by the member states.
in addition, it refers to the progress made towards the 2020 energy efficiency targets as well as the framework for the 2030 targets.
‒ the the report on the implementation report on the energy efficiency directive is a typical item for analysis and discussion on the progress of the report, but it is a good attempt to promote processes that are relevant not only to energy and economic issues but also to environmental issues.
it certainly does not avoid some verbal exaggerations and the usual hostility towards russia, but it is in general necessary for europe and good for the environment.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i vote against the report on the implementation report on the energy efficiency directive (2012/27/eu) as it concerns the implementation of an existing directive and its improvement.
it certainly does not avoid some verbal exaggerations and the usual hostility towards russia, but it is in general necessary for europe and good for the environment.
‒ the i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the energy efficiency directive, as i believe that it is necessary for the union to adopt a strategy for greater energy efficiency.
‒ i am voting against the report on the report on the implementation of the energy efficiency directive for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in brussels on 23 june 2016 and because the report is not complete and well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the in 1968 researchers warned the american petroleum institute that carbon dioxide emissions from fossil fuels could lead to global environmental changes.
48 years later and while science and technology have made leaps, appropriate technologies for the optimal use of renewable energy sources are still not being implemented.
the deliberate concealment of scientific findings, the concealment of information and the deliberate misleading of public opinion have imposed the short-sighted policy of temporary profit-making on large companies at the expense of corresponding sustainable options.
oil giants and corporations spend $115 million a year blocking climate policies.
at the same time, they are pressing for gas to emerge as the key technology by which europe will reduce carbon dioxide emissions economically.
not only at the expense of the environment, but especially at the expense of our children.
the development and implementation of renewable energy sources must be substantially supported and those responsible for obstruction must be punished.
‒ the i voted in favour of the energy efficiency directive of the committee on industry, research and energy.
the commission the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of certain substances and preparations is a very good one.
the development of each country must be taken into account, as must its historical contribution to emissions.
the principle of historical contribution to greenhouse gas emissions should therefore also govern community legislation on emission limits for non-road mobile machinery.
but we, who love the country, love the young and believe that the young are... (the president cut off the speaker)
the commission mr president, energy efficiency policy is linked to decisions in the areas of security of supply, climate change, sustainable development and the internal market.
however, as things stand today, especially in the countries of the european south, it is important that energy efficiency should be aimed primarily at eliminating the shameful phenomenon of energy poverty.
the target set by the council of the european union in october 2014 is to increase energy efficiency to 27% by 2030. to that end, providers and sellers in all member states should provide valid and visible information on the energy performance of their products.
the proposal for a regulation, which i voted in favour of, is aimed at regulating harmful emissions from engines of so-called off-road mobile machinery.
these engines are a major contributor to air pollution and are responsible for about 15% of the eu's nitrogen oxide emissions and 5% of particulate matter.
i believe that environmental protection policies should be a priority for europe, as we must act immediately before it is too late for the environment.
we agree that new emission limits should be established, which should also apply to agricultural vehicles, reflecting technological progress and ensuring convergence with union road transport policies, in order to achieve air quality objectives and to reduce emissions from non-road mobile machinery and agricultural vehicles, resulting in a more proportionate share of emissions from machinery compared to emissions from road vehicles.
i agree that new emission limits should be established, which should also apply to agricultural vehicles, reflecting technological progress and ensuring convergence with union road transport policies, in order to achieve air quality objectives and to reduce emissions from non-road mobile machinery and agricultural vehicles, resulting in a more proportionate share of emissions from machinery compared to emissions from road vehicles.
‒ this is a technical proposal relevant to the eu’s efforts to strike a reasonable balance between industrial competitiveness and health and environmental concerns, and more particularly to address public health concern about air quality.
this could contribute to a drastic reduction in emissions of co2 and other harmful pollutants.
we agree that new emission limits should be established, which should also apply to agricultural vehicles, reflecting technological progress and ensuring convergence with union road transport policies, in order to achieve air quality objectives and to reduce emissions from non-road mobile machinery and agricultural vehicles, resulting in a more proportionate share of emissions from machinery compared to emissions from road vehicles.
the rapporteur's proposals cover both environmental objectives and the needs of supporting the economy and competitiveness of the relevant sectors in the eu.
the report was adopted by a large majority in the committee responsible for the environment, public health and food safety.
in countries like greece, which has also been under the greatest pressure because of its geographical location, the necessary assistance must be given and a sustainable strategy must be implemented for the benefit of all.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of parliament's 2010 recommendations on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate responsibility, as all of the above have become issues of major concern to european citizens.
‒ the report on the implementation of parliament's 2010 recommendations on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate responsibility is another reminder of the obligation to respect the rules that govern european society.
‒ the we must acknowledge the adoption by the commission of the guidelines proposed by the european parliament in relation to social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate responsibility.
‒ the this is a major exhibition, promoting the human-centred, social and environmental approach to european trade policy.
the commission and the member states are called upon to work to ensure that all parties to trade agreements comply with international standards on human rights, gender equality, labour law and respect for the environment.
‒ i am voting against the report on the implementation of the 2010 recommendations of parliament on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate social responsibility, for the reasons i detailed in my speech to the european parliament's plenary in strasbourg on 4/7/2016, and because the report is not complete and well-founded.
‒ i supported the report of the committee on international trade which recognises the important steps forward in developing countries on our goals on human rights, sustainable development, the promotion of corporate and social responsibility, but also points out the initiatives to be taken in the future for even better results.
i think, however, that this report rightly focuses on strengthening existing policy without offering solutions and without proposing changes to the trade strategy, to the defence of jobs or to climate change.
‒ the trade and investment strategy should be based on improving the regulatory frameworks for the development of enterprises, in particular micro and smes, and agriculture within the eu, taking into account the specificities of each country and with a view to its sustainable development.
‒ i am opposed to the report on a new far-reaching and innovative future trade and investment strategy, as the trade and investment strategy should be based on improving the regulatory frameworks for the development of businesses, in particular micro and smes, as well as agriculture within the eu, based on the specificities of each country and with a view to its sustainable development.
but what is missing in this report is a real change in trade strategy, to orient policies in order to defend jobs, european industrialisation and to tackle climate change.
‒ the trade and investment strategy should be based on improving the regulatory frameworks for the development of enterprises, in particular micro and smes, and agriculture within the eu, taking into account the specificities of each country and with a view to its sustainable development.
it has no capacity to deal with the existing crises, such as illegal immigration, terrorism, brexit, economic depression, unemployment, climate change.
the commission madam president, the security of network and information systems is essential for the functioning of societies and for a reliable environment for trade in services worldwide.
the commission madam president, the horizon 2020 programme supports the europe 2020 strategy and aims to boost innovation and research in order to achieve sustainable development in the member states of the union.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the marine environment is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area.
we see that one of the objectives of this agency is to deal with pollution at sea, whether from ships or from gas installations, and also to deal with large-scale oil spills.
let me explain my contention in simple words: last year, when mr juncker presented the 2016 programme, he concluded by mentioning as the most important objectives the fight against the crisis, unemployment, the deepening of the monetary union, the establishment of a security climate after the charlie attack, the restoration of stability in the greek economy and a fair agreement with the united kingdom.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr timmermans, for his report.
the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
the commission has also been active in the field of the environment, and has recently launched a new programme for the protection of the environment, the environment and the environment.
the energy agreements are increasing turkey's role and cementing europe's dependence on non-european states.
the energy agreements are increasing turkey's role and cementing europe's dependence on non-european states.
it is through close cooperation and open routes for dialogue that we will manage to achieve sustainable change in the societies of our partners.
azerbaijan is also an important partner of the eu in energy and we should strengthen this cooperation.
this will be achieved by requiring member states to increase their preparedness, improve cooperation between them, and by requiring operators of critical infrastructure such as energy, transport, and key information society service providers (e-commerce platforms, social networks, etc.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on energy efficiency labelling because it supports the eu's effort to reduce carbon emissions, reduce energy consumption and improve the free movement of products, as there will be no energy labelling by each member state but they will be subject to european labelling.
‒ the report concerns the establishment of a framework for energy efficiency labelling and the repeal of directive 2010/30/eu.
it is clear that this effort can benefit both the economy and the environment, with positive results for europe.
‒ the reducing household energy costs and consumption, combined with reducing greenhouse gas emissions, as well as life-cycle cost, connectivity, repairability, durability, recyclability and environmental performance are objectives to promote the circular economy and are of direct concern to consumers.
the exchange of information on planned and completed product testing and the electronic provision of test protocols between member states and supervisory authorities will be a key factor in achieving the union's environmental and climate objectives and in improving the energy performance of products.
we therefore vote in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for energy efficiency labelling and repealing directive 2010/30/eu, in order to reduce the cost of manufacturing products, save energy, protect the environment and produce sustainable and efficient products with the help of specific labels, the internet and a generally harmonised regulatory framework at union level.
‒ the reducing household energy costs and consumption, combined with reducing greenhouse gas emissions, as well as life-cycle cost, connectivity, repairability, durability, recyclability and environmental performance are objectives to promote the circular economy and are of direct concern to consumers.
the exchange of information on planned and completed product testing and the electronic provision of test protocols between member states and supervisory authorities will be a key factor in achieving the union's environmental and climate objectives and in improving the energy performance of products.
i therefore vote in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for energy efficiency labelling and repealing directive 2010/30/eu, in order to reduce the cost of manufacturing products, save energy, protect the environment and produce sustainable and efficient products with the help of specific labels, the internet and a generally harmonised regulatory framework at union level.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the establishment of a framework for energy labelling of products as it is in the interest of european consumers.
‒ the the abolition of the energy efficiency directive 2010/30/eu and its replacement by a single regulation marks the beginning of the work towards an energy union with a far-reaching environmental policy and has the potential to reverse the adverse climate following the energy scandal in the automotive sector.
the upgrading of the scale of energy categories and the creation of a database on energy products can provide citizens with a deeper understanding of the environmental impact of products and their life cycle.
‒ i am voting in favour of postponing the vote on the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for energy efficiency labelling and repealing directive 2010/30/eu, in agreement with the rapporteur's proposal.
‒ the reducing household energy costs and consumption, combined with reducing greenhouse gas emissions, as well as life-cycle cost, connectivity, repairability, durability, recyclability and environmental performance are objectives to promote a circular economy and are of direct concern to consumers.
the exchange of information on planned and completed product testing and the electronic provision of test protocols between member states and supervisory authorities will be a key factor in achieving the union's environmental and climate objectives and in improving the energy performance of products.
we therefore vote in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for energy efficiency labelling and repealing directive 2010/30/eu, in order to reduce the cost of manufacturing products, save energy, protect the environment and produce sustainable and efficient products with the help of specific labels, the internet and a generally harmonised regulatory framework at union level.
‒ the i voted in favour of the report by mr tamburrano on the establishment of a framework for energy efficiency labelling and the repeal of directive 2010/30/eu.
we need a new, more stringent scale for the labelling of the energy efficiency of household appliances, which will keep pace with technological progress.
the setting of stricter requirements will provide incentives for further improvements in energy efficiency.
i think, however, that we must be careful about improving the conditions of fishermen and the sustainability of fish stocks, which is not achieved by this report.
‒ the the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has called for the commission to be given the power to adopt legislative proposals to ensure that the eu's environmental legislation is properly enforced.
‒ the the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has called for the commission to be given the power to adopt legislative proposals to ensure that the eu's environmental legislation is properly enforced.
‒ the the financing of the union's key priorities is of course lacking, especially as regards key pillars of development such as research, innovation and the sustainable economy.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which refers to japan's decision to resume whaling in 2015-16. japan must stop whaling in accordance with the ruling of the international court of justice in the hague on march 31, 2014, as it threatens animal welfare and biodiversity.
‒ the vote on japan's decision to resume whaling in 2015-16 is a very important issue and a positive step by europe for the environment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission mr president, the foreign policy of each member state serves its national interest, both bilaterally and in the integrated global environment.
i therefore support the same effort for so-called energy products, such as various stimulants and caffeinated drinks, which are consumed in large numbers by children and adolescents.
‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr kovatchev, a member of the committee on foreign affairs, which sets out a comprehensive framework for peace and security, the fight against terrorism, human rights and the rule of law, democracy, migration, development and climate change.
flexible work particularly affects the disabled, as their health requires a stable environment.
flexible work particularly affects the disabled, as their health requires a stable environment.
– this resolution called for the introduction of restrictions on the marketing of energy drinks to children and adolescents and on food relating to caffeine.
the commission mr president, the strategy for the redesign of the energy market is a typical example of the implementation of bad economic policy in the union.
a combination of measures is encouraged, in which, alongside renewable energy sources, lower emission production technologies must also be taken into account.
a strategy that benefits the environment and people.
however, the proposed creation of a single pan-european carbon tax will place a burden on owners of passenger and corporate vehicles in the union on top of the increased taxation already incurred in a national context.
the interconnection of the energy production and distribution sectors and the development and adoption of innovative technologies should not be financed by measures that overtax the citizens of the union.
they can be financed by taxing large energy producers and distributors, especially those which do not invest in renewable and environmentally friendly sources.
mr president, further deregulation of the energy market is not helping citizens but multinationals.
the commission the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a step in the right direction, and it is a step in the right direction.
energy is a very important commodity for modern society and should be available to all people in the quantity required and at low prices.
to do this, energy must be controlled and regulated by the state.
we cannot talk about strategies that will create the knowledge base for sustainable growth and high-quality jobs when many of the wrong policies of the union have led to a fall in living standards, especially in the countries of the south, with underemployment and a hunger minimum wage.
the union must adopt measures and rules which favour the creation and development of small and medium-sized enterprises and support their survival in the competitive environment with large enterprises.
i will mention three simple measures: the removal of bureaucratic obstacles to the creation of smes by establishing a european standard, a directive applicable to all member states to create a favourable environment in two directions: the transition to a circular low-carbon economy and the promotion of green products and services, the combination of the structural funds with other resources to favour bank lending to smes and, finally, the development of a uniform tax practice for smes that will allow taxation after a certain grace period or impose uniform tax rates by all member states.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the commission is not prepared to take action in this area.
at the same time, however, sustainable development models must be supported and cooperation between the countries and peoples of the region strengthened.
however, as long as austerity policies are imposed in the european south, reconciling work and life and sustainable development will become even more difficult.
there is a desperate attempt to hide responsibility for the refugee crisis, for instability in the middle east, for economic problems, for poverty, for poverty in rich and poor countries, for the environmental crisis.
at a time of economic recession and resulting budget constraints, and in an increasingly competitive global environment, it is crucial that the european union keep improving its capacity to innovate.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on european territorial cooperation (etc) because, despite the small budget, the projects of the etc have significant effects in areas such as transport, education, energy, healthcare, training and employment.
‒ the the interim report on the examination of emission measurements in the motor vehicle industry, which we voted on today, is one of the steps we are called upon to take to upgrade the regulatory framework in a very important area such as emissions.
‒ the in view of the devastating effects of air pollution each year, the health and safety of european citizens must be a priority.
‒ the in view of the devastating effects of air pollution each year, the health and safety of european citizens must be a priority.
‒ the in view of the devastating effects of air pollution each year, the health and safety of european citizens must be a priority.
however, the report states that the objective is to strengthen a full, integrated internal energy market.
the report takes account, inter alia, of the strengthening of investment, the security of energy supply and the integration of renewable energy sources.
the commission mr president, the energy union is a key to ensuring that the energy policy mix enhances the security of supply of the member states and the complementarity of supply.
in particular, as far as my country, greece, is concerned, it is vital that we be given time to move towards a gradual decoupling from lignite, and this can happen by providing pollution rights in our country through the modernisation fund.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the energy mix must be based on diversified suppliers and i would like to raise the question here of completing the tap pipeline to transport azeri gas to europe by 2019 on schedule, since socar, as the main shareholder, warns that, due to the obstacles it faces with the privatisation of despa, it is likely not to contribute to the project.
‒ i voted in favour of this report which precedes the legislation on the electricity market and will be proposed at the end of 2016. this report is important as it takes into account in the design of the new energy market the transition from traditional, centralised electricity generation to a system based more on renewable energy sources, often produced at a more local level, and flexibility.
‒ we voted on the report on the redesign of the energy market.
‒ my approach to the issue of energy security and efficiency is completely different, i consider that energy is a critical infrastructure for each state, it should have full control over its production and distribution and not be subject to controls and restrictions from outside, with the only exception perhaps of environmental protection issues.
‒ the i am voting against the report on the redesign of the energy market.
my approach to the issue of energy security and efficiency is quite different.
i believe that energy is a vital infrastructure for any state, that it should have full control over its production and distribution and not be subject to external controls and restrictions, with the sole exception perhaps of environmental protection issues.
‒ the i voted in favour of the report on the redesign of the energy market because i believe it is of the utmost importance, on the one hand, to create a pan-european electricity market which will provide, through prices, clear indications for new investments and, on the other hand, to establish a european approach to energy security.
regional cooperation in energy policy should be strengthened, particularly in relation to investment in new power plants, interconnections and aid rules, and the integration of renewable sources into the european internal market.
‒ this report is on the energy market design, which means the way that market actors generate, trade, supply and electricity.
among the members of gue/ngl, we believe that new energy market design must be market-based and technology-neutral.
we believe that the consumers should be more involved and allowed to participate in the market if they wish so, we promote the use of renewables and also new energy efficiency improvements.
‒ i am voting against the report on 'for the redesign of the energy market' for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 12/9/2016 and because the report is not complete and well-founded.
‒ the strategy for the redesign of the energy market is a typical example of the implementation of bad eu economic policy.
energy is a critical infrastructure for any state, which should have full control over its production and distribution and, above all, not be subject to controls and restrictions by external actors, with the sole exception perhaps of environmental protection issues.
but for that to happen, energy upgrading of buildings is necessary.
my proposal is to promote the financing of regional and local initiatives to upgrade not only public buildings but also homes, in an area which suffers from energy poverty of over 50 per cent.
through better insulation, modernisation of cooling/heating appliances and greater use of renewable sources and district heating.
the provision of upgrading equipment and the strategy for rationalising the energy consumed by european society are positive steps and that is why i voted in favour.
‒ energy should be the sole responsibility of each state, the union should be limited to pressing for environmental protection.
i believe that action should be the sole responsibility of each state and that the union should be limited to pressing for environmental protection.
it is the simplest way to ensure that energy is used more efficiently and to achieve significant reductions in co2 emissions.
it can be harnessed by using panels that heat water or generate electricity and my country greece has much more potential for solar energy development in comparison.
‒ the interconnection of the energy production and distribution sectors and the development and adoption of innovative technologies should not be financed by measures that overtax the citizens of the union.
they can be financed by taxing large energy producers and distributors, especially those which do not invest in renewable and environmentally friendly sources.
‒ the present report by the committee on industry, research and energy has taken account of the differences and views in the member states and highlights the measures to be taken, particularly in the new member states, for the thermal renovation of buildings.
such an objective requires the creation of a competitive environment that will allow smes to flourish.
the union should adopt measures and rules that favour the creation and development of small and medium-sized enterprises and support their survival in the competitive environment with large enterprises, such as the development of a uniform tax practice for small and medium-sized enterprises that allows taxation after a certain grace period or imposes uniform tax scales in all member states.
‒ the protection of the environment and local biodiversity, combined with better governance and local development, jobs and innovation, are the main points of this report, which i approved with a 'yes' vote.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu trust fund for africa because i agree with the rapporteur that the eu trust fund for africa should contribute to the development of countries of transit and origin of migrants, to the strengthening and improvement of local public services (social services, health, education, nutrition, culture) and political participation and governance, mainly through community-focused projects, and that the fund should also contribute to the development of employment in local sectors, with respect for human rights and the environment.
to be another mechanism for the eu's multifaceted economic, political and military interventions on the african continent, which is one of the geostrategic priorities of its aggressive imperialist policy and the field of fierce monopoly competition between imperialist centres and powerful capitalist countries for the exploitation of wealth-producing - mainly energy - resources.
the situation is even more painful for those of us who believe that turkey is an important partner in trying to solve the big problems of our region, such as the refugee problem, the cyprus problem, energy diversification, terrorism.
the volatile geopolitical and economic environment, the effects of climate change and the demographic explosion in african countries lead us to conclude that these figures will increase further in the coming years.
the commission madam president, in accordance with paragraph 42 of the resolution, the european parliament expresses its concern about the sustainability of tunisia's debt and calls for the exploration of possible ways to make it more sustainable; calls for the conversion of tunisia's debt into investment projects, in particular for the construction of strategic infrastructure and the reduction of regional disparities; calls on the member states to explore ways to ensure the preferential restructuring of tunisia's debt.
how can you explain the fact that in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection we support flexible forms of employment with starvation wages and four-hour days, but on the other hand we talk about social dumping and want to ensure workers' rights and wages?
the commission mr president, the economic partnership agreement between the european union and the countries of southern africa, which has been provisionally in force since 1 june, promotes the interests of large companies while at the same time irreparably damaging the agricultural, environmental and social sectors of the european union.
victims of mega-giant competition for energy and markets.
‒ the ratification of the agreement between the eu and its member states and the sadc epa states reflects the deepening of eu-africa relations and confirms the union's commitment to the objective of creating a sustainable development environment for the african continent with the characteristics of open economies.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
mr president, the european council has set out guidelines for the employment policies of the member states of the union, in the context of the europe 2020 strategy, with the aim - supposedly - of smart, sustainable and unfettered growth.
it is a growing and innovative sector, which very often in the member states proves that public services can and do remain competitive in an environment of fiscal austerity.
as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy on geo-blocking, i see the postal services directive as the completion of a grand strategy.
experience in the member states has shown how false the propaganda for cheaper and better quality services in all the sectors liberalised (postal services, transport, energy, water, etc.)
this is why he talks about "cultivating a capital markets-friendly climate".
the first is the economic partnership, whose primary objective is to promote the interests of the member states of the union, but also to create sustainable development in these countries as a key factor in curbing illegal immigration.
the agricultural, environmental and social sectors are also irreparably damaged.
the commission mr president, among the union's goals and commitments for global food security are the eradication of hunger and malnutrition by 2030 through increased productivity of small farms and the achievement of climate-resilient food systems.
the commission mr president, the importance of forests on a global scale is great, not only because they help to reduce greenhouse gases, and especially carbon dioxide, thus limiting climate change, but also because they are an important source of wealth for the countries that have them.
the commission mr president, illegal logging and deforestation have serious environmental impacts, reducing biodiversity and contributing to climate change.
to address environmental damage caused by illegal logging and deforestation, the european union has since 2003 adopted an action plan on forest law enforcement, governance and trade, aimed at encouraging sustainable forest management.
i therefore believe that today's procedure can help to improve the position of european citizens and at the same time create a positive climate for intensifying cooperation between member states.
‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the paris agreement adopted under the united nations framework convention on climate change, because i believe that this will send a strong message from the leadership of the european union and its member states in their global efforts to combat climate change.
‒ the recommendation on the european union's accession plan to the paris agreement adopted under the united nations framework convention on climate change is a step in the right direction.
‒ positive overall, although within his articles, there are also issues that do not concern the protection of the environment which the same ones who govern destroyed and are just now trying to save what is left.
‒ i vote against the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the paris agreement adopted under the united nations framework convention on climate change because, although the paris agreement is not enough to combat global warming, i consider it a small step in the right direction.
‒ the paris agreement is a landmark in the fight against climate change and in multilateral cooperation.
‒ the as i have already said, the paris convention on climate change (cop21) did not create a clear framework for tackling climate change because, among other things, it did not address two major problems that we will have to deal with in the future.
the first major problem is that of the production model responsible for global warming and the second is that of climate migration.
the paris agreement (cop21) makes no reference to the status of climate refugee or migrant although, for the period 2008-2013 alone, their number is estimated at 166 million.
‒ the the paris agreement on climate change, the product of temporary compromises between imperialist centres and powerful capitalist countries, neither wants nor can deal with the acute environmental problems created by the capitalist mode of development, since it treats the environment as a means of increasing the profitability of business groups, while having a disastrous effect not only with the uncontrolled extraction of resources, but also with imperialist wars.
the agreement focuses on the various 'pollutant trading systems' which, as mechanisms for the profitable buying and selling of pollution itself, have been shown to intensify environmental degradation.
the result of this agreement will certainly be a worsening of environmental problems and the living conditions of ordinary families.
only an economy and a society based not on capitalist profit but on the satisfaction of people's needs can ensure that the working man has a compatible and balanced impact on nature and the environment.
‒ we believe that the paris agreement is not enough to tackle global warming, but it is nevertheless a small step in the right direction.
‒ the the paris agreement on climate change, the product of temporary compromises between imperialist centres and powerful capitalist countries, neither wants nor can deal with the acute environmental problems created by the capitalist mode of development, since it treats the environment as a means of increasing the profitability of business groups, while having a disastrous effect not only with the uncontrolled extraction of resources, but also with imperialist wars.
the agreement focuses on the various 'pollutant trading systems' which, as mechanisms for the profitable buying and selling of pollution itself, have been shown to intensify environmental degradation.
the result of this agreement will certainly be a worsening of environmental problems and of the living conditions of ordinary families.
only an economy and a society based not on capitalist profit but on the satisfaction of people's needs can ensure that the working man has a compatible and balanced impact on nature and the environment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment, the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
we therefore call for the econ working group to be upgraded, which will report on the implementation of non-fiscal reforms, because without a fundamental change in administration and without cuts in the business environment, taxation and justice, we will never escape the threat of grexit.
has the syriza government created the right environment to attract investors?
if the european union is to show basic respect for the fundamental rights which are supposed to be the basis of its existence, there must be bold relief of greece's transnational debt so that the economy and society can be put on a sustainable track.
the greek debt is not sustainable at this point.
‒ i voted in favour of the draft resolution on the eu's global objectives and commitments for food and food security in the world, as it addresses several important issues such as tackling malnutrition, undernutrition and food waste.
‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the need for a european reindustrialisation policy in the light of the recent caterpillar and alstom cases, because europe is a social market economy with a dynamic labour market, efficient social security systems and sustainable economic growth for its citizens.
however, we cannot support proposals which are directed solely at strengthening and supporting industrial units, unless this is combined with the corresponding protection of workers, but also with specific obligations at economic and environmental level.
the commission also proposes to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission madam president, i have already stressed that, despite the triumphal processions of the european union and france, last year's cop21 decision in paris did not create a clear framework for dealing with the disastrous consequences of climate change, and that is because it did not touch on two major problems that we will have to deal with in the future.
the second major issue is that of climate migration.
it is a huge political weakness of the paris agreement, the lack of any reference to the status of climate refugee or migrant.
however, the same report correctly points out that environment and health, as well as consumer protection, were again the policy areas where the most breaches occurred, and that the application of union law is not sufficiently transparent nor subject to effective control by the complainants and interested parties.
‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on international financial reporting standards (ifrs 9), because it concerns accounting standards that ensure financial stability, sustainable development and long-term investment.
‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the un climate change conference because it is vital that the european union ratifies the paris agreement before cop22 in marrakesh, in order to ensure that the agreement will come into force.
‒ the motion for a resolution on the un conference on climate change was a positive move, demonstrating our position on the need to take action on the problems and risks threatening the environment.
‒ i vote against the motion for a resolution on the 2016 un climate change conference held in marrakech, morocco (cop22), even though it contains issues that do not concern the protection of the environment, an environment that the rulers themselves have now destroyed and are just now trying to save what is left.
‒ i am voting against the motion for a resolution on the implementation of the paris agreement and the 2016 un climate change conference in marrakech, morocco, for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament in strasbourg on 5/10/2016 and because i consider that the motion for a resolution is neither complete nor well-founded.
‒ the environment must be protected from human pollutants and harmful interference.
this resolution aims to review the implementation of eu law for the year 2014. i voted in favour of the resolution, since it highlights improvements but notes that the sectors of the environment, health, consumer rights, mobility and transport were the policy areas in which most infringement cases remained.
the european union must develop with iran an open, frank, ambitious, multi-level, cross-sectoral dialogue in a climate of mutual trust and respect, based on an assessment of common interests as well as differences, in a way that benefits both the iranian people and the peoples of europe.
we have a duty to expand our cooperation in all areas: culture, education, trade, energy, environmental sustainability.
iran is the second largest economy in the middle east and a major player in the energy trade, because it is the second largest country in the world in natural gas reserves and the fourth largest in oil.
the european union's cooperation with iran in various fields, such as trade, industry and energy, is therefore in the interest of the countries of the european union, so that they are not dependent on one supplier in the energy sector.
it must emphasize the priorities of public and small and mediumsized enterprises, not only in the energy sector but also in other sectors.
the only solution to bring prices down sufficiently could be a massive increase in gas imports from north america, but this is contrary to the ecological values that have been established in the european union, since the gas comes from the destructive activity of 'fracking'.
the commission the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of certain substances and mixtures is a very good one.
it is also an opportunity to give consumers access to cheap energy, as the price of lng has been significantly reduced by the oversupply of lng.
an example of this, and i would like you to hear it, ladies and gentlemen, is the depa project for central and eastern macedonia and thrace; a project which can supply natural gas to provincial capitals, to smaller towns, to industrial zones, to one of the most energy-poor regions in greece and europe; a 1,128 km long project which will expand the energy market of greece by 0.4 billion cubic metres and attract investors.
we need the support of all the financial instruments of the european union to give greek consumers cheaper energy.
the commission mr president, ensuring effective control of fishing activities is a prerequisite for ensuring the sustainable exploitation of marine resources and for a level playing field between the union fleets.
but transport is also responsible for 25% of greenhouse gas emissions, with over 70% coming from road transport.
it is unacceptable and undemocratic to give a new authority the power to monitor member states, and it is a waste of resources, since there are already international bodies monitoring violations of fundamental rights.
‒ i voted in favour, since the recommendation is coming at the right time to respond to the new challenges related to increased passenger vessel traffic and the public demand for safer environment-friendly transport.
the report reflects the fierce competition between bourgeois classes and sections of capital within the eu, as well as with other imperialist centres and powerful capitalist countries, notably the us, russia, but also china, for control of markets, energy sources, raw materials and energy transport routes in the wider middle east, linked also to their stance towards iran in the light of the agreement on its nuclear programme.
the report also highlights this by drawing up a plan for their penetration with foreign direct investment, focusing on specific sectors such as the automotive industry, aircraft manufacturing, energy infrastructure, renewable energy, etc.
‒ the the report reflects the fierce competition between bourgeois classes and sections of capital within the eu, as well as with other imperialist centres and powerful capitalist countries, notably the us, russia, but also china, for control of markets, energy sources, raw materials and energy transport routes in the wider middle east, also linked to their stance towards iran in the light of the agreement on its nuclear programme.
the report also highlights this by drawing up a plan for their penetration with foreign direct investment, focusing on specific sectors such as the automotive industry, aircraft manufacturing, energy infrastructure, renewable energy sources, etc.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european union strategy on lng and gas storage because the increase in lng on the world market is a good opportunity for the eu to diversify its energy supply.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu lng and gas storage strategy because it recalls that the eu lng and gas storage strategy is one of the elements of the energy union that translates the eu's ambition to rapidly develop into a sustainable, secure and competitive energy system, and because it aims to end dependence on external gas suppliers and stresses that one of the objectives of the energy union is to make the eu a world leader in renewable energy sources.
the report aims to strengthen the internal capital market in energy in the eu and the groups active in this sector.
it reflects the serious contradictions of the bourgeoisie and monopoly groups in the member states, particularly with regard to germany, and the international orientations of their 'energy alliances'.
at the same time, energy is becoming a very expensive, inaccessible commodity for workers, demonstrating the huge gap between popular interests and the designs of eu and bourgeois governments, which are solely driven by the profits of the monopolies.
‒ the the report aims to strengthen the internal capital market in energy in the eu and the groups active in this sector.
it reflects the serious contradictions of the bourgeoisie and monopoly groups in the member states, particularly with regard to germany, and the international orientations of their 'energy alliances'.
at the same time, energy is becoming a very expensive, inaccessible commodity for workers, demonstrating the huge gap between popular interests and the designs of eu and bourgeois governments, which are solely driven by the profits of the monopolies.
i voted in favour of the report on how to make fisheries controls uniform in europe because i believe that a simpler, more integrated and consistent legislation should be a priority, while aiming at increasing transparency, cooperation, innovation and the protection of labour and environmental standards.
it is unacceptable and undemocratic to give a new authority the power to monitor member states, and it is a waste of resources, since there are already international bodies monitoring violations of fundamental rights.
it is unacceptable and undemocratic to give a new authority the power to monitor member states, and it is a waste of resources, since there are already international bodies monitoring violations of fundamental rights.
it is unacceptable and undemocratic to give a new authority the power to monitor member states, and it is a waste of resources, since there are already international bodies monitoring violations of fundamental rights.
the commission madam president, plant health is a key factor for sustainable and competitive agriculture, forestry and, more generally, for the biodiversity of the member states of the union.
the high volume of plant species imports from other continents implies a high potential for the establishment of pest outbreaks, while climate change allows those organisms to survive in europe and makes crops and ecosystems more vulnerable to new pests.
that is why the european union and the united states have ignited a new war in mosul to control the energy that is causing new waves of refugees trapped in miserable conditions, by your joint decision.
it's a confrontation over the division of the spoils, about new anti-labor measures, concessions of social services to monopolies, to act unimpeded by trampling on popular rights to work, health, education, environmental protection.
at the same time, it should promote policies that lead to decent work, sustainable growth and ensure balances between the economically strong and the correspondingly weak economies of the member states.
at the same time, it should promote policies that lead to decent work, sustainable growth and ensure balances between the economically strong and the correspondingly weak economies of the member states.
at the same time, it should promote policies that lead to decent work, sustainable growth and ensure balances between the economically strong and the correspondingly weak economies of the member states.
at the same time, it should promote policies that lead to decent work, sustainable growth and ensure balances between the economically strong and the correspondingly weak economies of the member states.
this is a hindrance to entrepreneurship and sustainability.
i therefore support mr czarnecki's report which refuses to grant the secretary-general of the council a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council and the council for the year 2014.
the first item on the agenda is the oral question to the commission on the european voluntary service (o-000107/2016 - b8-1803/2016) (2016/2872 (rsp))
the commission mr president, volunteering by definition has no material rewards, although many feel that, for reasons of sustainability, volunteering should be rewarded, not with a wage, but with free food, accommodation, transport and other facilities.
they're now opening a new front in mosul, slaughtering people for their energy rivalry with russia.
they're now opening a new front in mosul, slaughtering people for their energy rivalry with russia.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
‒ nuclear energy and by extension nuclear weapons are a tool for man.
the eurozone needs a shift towards sustainable and strong growth, and it needs it now.
there are many places in europe where ferry travel would be more sustainable, easier and faster, boosting social and economic life in the area.
the commission madam president, the un 2030 agenda is an ambitious set of 17 goals for sustainable development and poverty eradication.
they, together with the governments of greece, turkey and cyprus, are promoting the partition of cyprus as a stable base for energy investors in the region.
in this climate of contradiction, what is the value of a single economic governance and a european semester?
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
i think that this is a positive process aimed at rationalizing fishing and commercial practices, with results that are beneficial for the economy and the environment.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the green paper on retail financial services because i believe it is extremely important to promote positive developments in retail financial services markets by creating a competitive environment and maintaining a level playing field for all stakeholders.
we are experiencing very challenging times in a changing political environment.
‒ i am voting in favour of the report because we need to fully exploit all waterways to help many areas economically, but at the same time we need to have increased safety measures for both people and the environment.
‒ i am voting against the report on exploiting the potential of passenger shipping, because it is necessary to exploit all waterways to help many regions economically, but at the same time there must be increased safety measures for both people and the environment.
‒ the inland waterway passenger transport, including sea ferries, inland waterway ferries, barges and cruise ships, plays a key role in achieving a more sustainable and efficient european transport sector, by supporting policies relating to safety, environmental standards, cross-border cooperation and competitiveness, as well as quality of service, passenger rights and unimpeded accessibility.
while shipping is already one of the most sustainable modes of transport, there is further scope to make ships cleaner and more energy efficient through investment in research and innovative technologies, for example in the field of solar and wind energy, shore-based electricity and alternative fuels, while applying the principle of technological neutrality.
‒ full exploitation of all waterways is needed to help many areas economically, but at the same time there must be increased safety measures for both people and the environment.
the european union and its member states, as well as the greek government, have been betrayed by trade and military agreements which have given them the role of imperialist policeman in the crucial middle east energy and pipeline region.
the commission mr president, europe has made important progress in reducing emissions of air pollutants and in protecting the environment in general.
unfortunately, however, environmental pollution is a global problem which cannot be solved by the european union alone, and emissions and the effort to reduce them have implications which extend beyond the ecological approach and concern the economy, corporate competition and the context in which companies operate.
for example, with free trade agreements, companies that remain in the union, where there are many and correct restrictions on emissions, will find themselves facing companies based in china or southeast asia or even the us, where regulations are much looser and, consequently, production costs are lower.
the result is that companies are essentially forced to migrate, causing social and economic problems in the union, and overall greater pollution of the environment.
we therefore conclude that emission limitations must be accompanied by a policy of economic protectionism, making imports from countries which do not meet the exact same legal requirements on emissions more expensive.
finally, the union must review its relations with third countries and make environmental protection an important factor and a prerequisite for the continuation of these relations.
the commission mr president, the european union's action to reduce air pollution is important.
the commission madam president, climate change is an undeniable threat to the environment and to man.
the world health organization estimates that 12.5 million deaths annually are linked to environmental pollution, with 6.5 million of these related to air pollution from domestic and outdoor sources.
also, about half of all child deaths from pneumonia are due to indoor air pollution.
it is estimated that between 2008 and 2013, there were 166 million climate refugees, and that number is growing.
the commission madam president, the marrakesh meeting of the 22nd conference of the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change marked the transition from the old negotiating phase to the new phase which focuses on implementation, although this does not yet mean anything tangible.
the consequences of the ratification of ceta, which is being voted on in the european parliament in a hurried and opaque manner, will have a huge impact on labour relations, the rural economy, the environment, public health and public services as a whole in all the member states of the european union, and especially in the economically weaker ones.
social and environmental standards, especially in times of crisis, should be substantially strengthened and not be the subject of transatlantic negotiations to reduce them in favour of trade by multinational companies.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants and amending directive 2003/35/ec, because this directive is an important step towards tackling various health and environmental problems caused by air pollution.
‒ we voted on the report on the reduction of national emissions of certain air pollutants and the amendment of directive 2003/35/ec.
‒ the air quality is a major cross-border health and environmental issue, which has a huge impact on all eu citizens and requires immediate action.
we therefore support the report by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants.
‒ the air quality is a major cross-border health and environmental issue, which has a huge impact on all eu citizens and requires immediate action.
i therefore support the report by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants.
‒ the while neglected by politicians for many years, air pollution has gained prominence on the political agenda as a major public health issue.
in europe, the total external health-related costs to society due to air pollution are estimated at between eur 330-940 billion per year.
a typical example of such action would be the establishment of low emission zones, a road toll system to reduce diesel emissions in urban areas most affected by nitrogen oxides and particulate matter emissions.
‒ i am voting against the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants and amending directive 2003/35/ec, for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 23 november 2016, and because the report is not complete and well-founded.
‒ the air quality is a major cross-border health and environmental issue, which has a huge impact on all citizens of the european union and requires immediate action.
although the purpose of this framework could be to benefit the smaller european banks in particular, i believe that once again the rational regulation of the banking environment is not being achieved, which in the recent past was one of the reasons for the economic crisis that has hit the euro area.
‒ we reject the motion for a resolution by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the draft commission implementing regulation renewing the approval of the active substance bentazone, in accordance with regulation (ec) no 1107/2009 of the european parliament and of the council concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market, and amending the annex to commission implementing regulation (eu) no 540/2011, because the information submitted to that committee must be of a confirmatory nature as regards the effects on human health, animal health, groundwater or any unacceptable impact on the environment.
‒ i vote against the motion for a resolution by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the draft commission implementing regulation renewing the approval of the active substance bentazone in accordance with regulation (ec) no 1107/2009 of the european parliament and of the council concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market, and amending the annex to commission implementing regulation (eu) no 540/2011, as the information submitted to that committee must be of a confirmatory nature as regards effects on human health, animal health, groundwater or any unacceptable impact on the environment.
‒ i voted in favour to prohibit the renewal of bentazone authorisation since there is not enough evidence to conclude that its use will not harm human and animal health and the environment.
‒ the information submitted to the committee must be of a confirmatory nature as regards the effects on human health, animal health, groundwater or any unacceptable impact on the environment.
mr president, the illegal trade in so-called wild, that is, in fact, non-human animal species, is a heinous crime against biodiversity.
the illegal trade in wildlife species has increased dramatically in recent years, negatively affecting biodiversity and natural resources, with estimated revenues of between eur 8 and 20 billion per year.
unfortunately, greece also seems to be lagging far behind the other member states in this area, as transport operators in greece waste valuable time because of congestion on the roads, which leads to non-compliance with the mandatory rules on working hours and driving and resting time for drivers.
the commission mr president, commissioner, security of supply cannot ignore the immediate response to energy poverty.
the new legislative package, which the commission will be presenting to us on 30 november, must tackle energy poverty on the spot.
those who pay more than 10% of their income for energy: this is no longer an approach that reflects reality.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's energy policy is not undermined by the lack of a single market.
in greece, the indicators show that 36% of citizens are affected by energy poverty.
we need a strategy that will reduce electricity prices, increase the energy efficiency of buildings, set targets for each member state and allow the use of all the european instruments for financing, the so-called esf, the 'juncker package', but also the contribution of the private sector.
the commission mr president, the european union must take serious steps to ensure its energy security.
the solution to the problem is the energy independence of the union's member states.
in addition, greece must, with the help of the european union, invest not only in alternative energy sources but also in lignite-based power plants, while taking measures to protect the environment.
finally, measures must be taken to tackle energy poverty, since the greek people are in danger of freezing again this winter, as the price of heating oil has reached record highs.
in relation to meps’ assistants, i am very aware that some of them do have difficult and challenging work to do in a sometimes very stressful and political environment.
the report is a particularly important effort to protect species threatened directly or indirectly by illegal trade, while at the same time aiming to protect the environment.
‒ the we disregard the report of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the european union action plan to combat wildlife trafficking, as the first priority of the action plan is to prevent wildlife trafficking and tackle its root causes, the second priority of the action plan is to ensure the effective implementation and enforcement of existing rules to combat organised wildlife crime, and the third priority is to strengthen global cooperation among countries of origin, consumption and transit to combat wildlife trafficking.
‒ the i support the report of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the eu action plan to combat wildlife trafficking, as the first priority of the action plan is to prevent wildlife trafficking and tackle its root causes, the second priority of the action plan is to ensure the effective implementation and enforcement of existing rules to combat organised wildlife crime, and the third priority is to strengthen global cooperation among countries of origin, consumption and transit to combat wildlife trafficking.
the environmental protection cannot therefore be dealt with independently of the production motive.
only a development path with an organization of economy and society based on the social ownership of all natural resources with workers' power can create the conditions for environmental protection.
the proposals in this report do not only affect economic activities but are also intended to support the environmental needs of the european periphery.
operations related to oil and gas production have a significant economic impact and a high environmental risk.
the nature of this work makes it extremely important to ensure the protection of businesses, which are directly linked to the environment.
the current european directive makes the holders of offshore licences responsible for preventing and remedying any environmental damage resulting from their activities.
their impact has serious and long-term implications for the marine environment and this should be taken into account in the directive.
risk analysis and environmental impact assessment for offshore activities could also be published on a regular basis, according to parameters such as biodiversity, climate change, sustainable land use, protection of the marine environment and appropriate staff training before any authorisation of operations.
it is my personal belief that prevention is better than cure and that the institution of criminal liability at european level could be an additional deterrent, in addition to existing civil penalties, thus leading to better protection of the environment and citizens.
the commission madam president, oil and gas make up half of the european union's energy mix and will continue to be the main sources of energy for several years to come.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the protection of the environment are properly applied, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
‒ the the eu's mishandling of illegal immigration, in connection with the implementation of a failed multiannual financial framework, has led to a waste of union resources.
‒ the the eu's mishandling of illegal immigration, in connection with the implementation of a failed multiannual financial framework, has led to a waste of union resources.
‒ the the eu's mishandling of illegal immigration, in connection with the implementation of a failed multiannual financial framework, has led to a waste of union resources.
‒ the the eu's mishandling of illegal immigration, in connection with the implementation of a failed multiannual financial framework, has led to a waste of union resources.
‒ the the eu's mishandling of illegal immigration, in connection with the implementation of a failed multiannual financial framework, has led to a waste of union resources.
‒ i am opposed to the mobilisation of the flexibility mechanism to finance immediate budgetary measures to deal with the current migration, refugee and security crisis, as the eu's mishandling of illegal immigration, in connection with the implementation of a failed multiannual financial framework, has led to a waste of union resources.
‒ the the eu's mishandling of illegal immigration, in connection with the implementation of a failed multiannual financial framework, has led to a waste of union resources.
the proposals in this report do not only affect economic activities but are also intended to support the environmental needs of the european periphery.
operations related to oil and gas production have a significant economic impact and a high environmental risk.
it is obvious that we must have some rules to protect the environment, citizens and companies that are located close to offshore oil and gas operations.
‒ we are voting against because the union should first deal with the ever-growing energy shortage within the member states and not intervene directly in the planning of third countries, especially when these interventions are concealing neo-colonial logic and policies.
the only proposal we could accept would be to ban trade with countries which do not meet the environmental criteria.
‒ i am voting against the motion for a resolution on access to energy in developing countries, because the union should first deal with the ever-increasing energy shortage within the member states and not intervene directly in the planning of third countries, especially when these interventions are concealed by neo-colonial logic and policies.
the only proposal we could accept would be to ban trade with countries which do not meet the environmental criteria.
‒ sustainable access to affordable, reliable and safe energy is crucial for the satisfaction of basic human needs and rights, including access to clean water, sanitation, safe and secure environment.
the resolution, calls on the eu to include a gender dimension on all its energy policies focusing on women particular needs.
however, even if the resolution includes very positive language on sustainability and on gender issue i voted abstention since i do not believe that the access to energy in developing countries could be resolved through an eu-africa partnership.
‒ referring to my speech to the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on 24/11/2016, i abstained from voting on the motion for a resolution on access to energy in developing countries because it is not sufficiently substantiated.
‒ the union should first address the ever-growing energy shortage within the member states and not intervene directly in the planning of third countries, especially when these interventions are concealed by neo-colonial logic and policies.
the only proposal we could accept would be to ban trade with countries which do not meet the environmental criteria.
my country can benefit from this framework because this new system of rules, which includes twenty-five ports, enhances the efficiency of port services, creates an attractive environment for investment and, above all, contributes to the economic development that my country so badly needs today.
i would like to say to you, mr president, that the text has also made the greatest possible effort on the specific issue you are referring to, because ensuring a legislative framework which does not allow for different interpretations also ensures education, so that those who are involved in the provision of services can really ensure an environment which investors would find attractive, so that they can contribute to the economy where this legislative framework is concerned.
the european union must therefore minimise the environmental impact of fishing, while ensuring the sustainable exploitation of deep waters.
the commission madam president, fierce competition for energy is giving rise to wars, refugees and misery, while the culprits (the european union, the united states and governments) are pretending to be concerned about the very real dangers of climate change!
clean energy and green growth is the cloak of leveraging capital accumulated in guaranteed maximum profit investments, subsidized by billions from the european union and the governments that pay the people with the most expensive electricity.
in a privatised energy-commodity energy union, which includes the syriza-anel government in greece, the energy poverty of the people is increasing, while prices for industrialists are falling.
the conflict between the interests of the people and a system that kills people and the environment for profit is growing.
only the socialisation of wealth and natural resources, central planning to meet the needs of the people can ensure cheap energy for all, balanced development of man and the environment.
the commission mr president, the liberalisation of the energy market in the european union must be accompanied by stricter safety requirements, particularly in view of the frequent accidents that occur with the supply of natural gas.
the union must also develop renewable energy sources, strengthening the energy policy of the member states while taking measures to combat energy poverty.
i think that the recommendation contains positive elements which are beneficial for the environment and for the economic activities linked to fishing, and i therefore voted against the motion for a resolution.
the eu selectively uses the protection of human rights as a pretext to justify its anti-people policy and that of the bourgeois governments of its member states and to legitimize their imperialist interventions all over the world, in syria, in the wider region of the southern mediterranean and north africa, where eu-us-nato compete with other imperialist powers for control of the wealth-producing sources, the energy transport routes, for the exploitation of the peoples.
i therefore support the report and the proposals from the committee on industry, research and energy and the committee on culture and education for a coherent eu policy on the cultural and creative sectors.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionizing radiation is a very important step towards the achievement of the objectives of the directive.
‒ the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund following a request from spain confirms the fund's role in an environment of continuing economic pressures and restructuring that threaten workers on a pan-european scale.
at the same time, by claiming to seek "free trade and sustainable development that allows for the fair redistribution of the wealth produced", it deliberately conceals the fact that the capitalist barbarity it serves sacrifices the rights of working people for the profits of business groups.
more insurance burdens, more tax burdens, more bureaucracy, more energy costs, expensive money that is not always available; this is the recipe for failure in the greek labour market.
poverty, unemployment, the energy of the middle ages.
i think that this is a positive step towards protecting the environment and the health of europeans, and that is why i voted in favour.