there is still a lot of work to be done in building the single market from building the digital single market, e-government and the implementation of the new public procurement rules, through the energy union, building the single capital market and the banking union to the most important thing we are discussing today, the further development of competition policy as the foundation for the development of the single market.
especially when we're talking about the digital market, or as i mentioned by the way, the energy market.
mr president, fishing as an economic activity today more than ever depends on a balance between the social sustainability of the fleet and the conservation of fish stocks.
of course, we must not forget that at the same time, member states must do their job, which is to implement structural reforms aimed at improving the business climate, and the banking system must give stronger support to smes through a wider choice of financing models.
i believe that it is necessary to ensure the recovery of tuna stocks, to set sustainable levels of catch, to limit fishing in certain areas and periods, and to establish clear rules for sport and recreational fishing.
such as the conservation of biodiversity and marine ecosystems, which are severely threatened, so harmonized and strong rules certainly contribute to the effective protection of bluefin tuna.
the commission should be able to assess the impact of the measures on the marine environment and the marine ecosystems in the light of the scientific advice provided by the member states.
the proposal for a regulation on a multiannual bluefin tuna recovery plan ensures that the objective of the common fisheries policy, namely to regulate the use of living marine resources, is promoted, while ensuring that economic, social and environmental conditions are sustainable.
i believe that protecting bluefin tuna can have a positive impact on the marine world, on the sustainability of the catch and on the recovery of the species in order to ensure the long-term economic exploitation of that species, to protect the fisheries and the fishermen who depend on the catch of bluefin tuna.
the catch limit before the plan was around 33000 tonnes, which was gradually reduced to 12900 tonnes in 2012. the measure had a positive impact on the stock of the species and reached 13 400 tonnes in 2013. sustainable fishing is one of the fundamental principles we must uphold, while ensuring an equitable distribution of available quotas.
i support the iccat proposal to use traditional traps because this type of fishing has a negligible impact on the marine ecosystem.
‒ to ensure the completion of the single market, a whole series of steps are needed, from the completion of the digital single market, e-government and the implementation of the new public procurement rules, through the energy union, the completion of the single capital market and the banking union to the most important one, the further development of competition policy as the basis for the development of the single market.
the commissioner for competition promised that competition policy would contribute to job creation, particularly in areas such as access to the digital labour market, energy policy, financial services, industrial policy and the fight against tax evasion.
the revised state aid rules also allow for targeted support for specific areas, such as infrastructure investments to reduce the burden on the transmission system and in renewable energy sources.
the verification of state aid should be based on the understanding that in strategic and vital sectors such as energy, transport and health, the state must be able to guarantee complete security, continuity of supply and provision of these services to all its citizens.
i strongly support the overall effort to combat unfair and non-transparent behaviour to the detriment of others and for these reasons i supported the parliament's resolution stressing the importance of affordable and sustainable energy and security of supply in the context of transparent trade agreements.
the european union is founded as an open social market economy with free competition aimed at increasing the well-being of consumers and the standard of living of all eu citizens, and whereas the european union establishes an internal market organised in such a way as to lead to the sustainable development of europe based on balanced economic growth and price stability.
an effective and credible competition policy must not only aim at lowering consumer prices, but must also address the strategic interests of the european economy, such as innovation, investment, competition and sustainability, the specific conditions of competition in which small, medium-sized and start-ups and micro-enterprises operate, and the promotion of labour standards and environmental protection.
the commission will continue to support the development of the european union's policy on the environment and sustainable development, and will continue to support the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and sustainable development.
the european union should take into account and continue the excellent work started in 2008. the parties shall cooperate in the development of a comprehensive and effective policy on the protection of the environment, in particular by promoting the development of a comprehensive and effective policy on the protection of the environment, and by promoting the development of a comprehensive policy on the protection of the environment.
mr president, less than a third of self-employed people in the european union are women, and statistics show that those who enter entrepreneurship are less risk-averse and less likely to expand their business due to poor environmental support.
the most important resources that entrepreneurs need are easier access to finance and environmental support to reconcile their personal and business commitments as easily as possible.
women face numerous difficulties on the path to their own enterprise such as the inability to reconcile private and professional life, administrative burdens, discrimination in all spheres of the business environment from banks to business partners, being considered less capable in running a business, etc., which directly leads to a lack of self-confidence and ultimately to the refusal to enter the entrepreneurial environment.
in view of the above problems faced by women entrepreneurs today, and the way they are being addressed, i supported a european parliament resolution aimed at providing better working conditions and equal opportunities in the labour market, calling for them to focus on the sectors of new green technologies and eco-entrepreneurship, which represent a great potential with a favourable business environment.
the european entrepreneurship strategy is smart, sustainable and inclusive development.
the youth employment crisis must be addressed by creating quality jobs in europe in an effective and sustainable way.
it is also important to highlight the potential of new information and communication technologies for the economy and society as a whole, in particular by linking them to sectors of particular importance such as energy, education, health, financial services, etc.
your long-term climate and energy policy objective is also clear - so a combination of short-term and long-term objectives can lead to a good presidency.
a comprehensive approach to migration and international security, european leadership in innovation and job creation, european finance for the future and long-term climate and energy policies are well-balanced priorities announced by the kingdom of the netherlands for the next 6 months of the eu presidency.
given that agriculture and fisheries are vital to the european economy and provide the people of europe with a secure supply of quality food, i believe that the dutch presidency will put the emphasis on a 'climate-smart' approach to agriculture and reducing food waste.
‒ carbon monoxide poisoning is very common in croatia.
it is essential to protect the health and safety of users and to promote the rational use of energy in terms of sustainability and competitiveness of the sector and coherence of the european union's energy policy.
precautions must be taken to avoid all forms of possible carbon monoxide poisoning, which is the leading cause of death in gas-fired appliances.
‒ the report by ms stihler highlighted the need for regular maintenance of gas appliances so that the devices on the market do not endanger the health and safety of consumers or their environment.
it is crucial to raise public awareness of the need for regular maintenance of gas appliances in order to reduce environmental damage and the potential for carbon monoxide poisoning, which is why i supported this report.
given that sales of these products within the union amount to as many as 30 million pieces per year, further progress in harmonising regulations to prevent the leakage of harmful gases (in particular carbon monoxide) or other substances harmful to the health and safety of all is important and commendable.
it complements the free market and harmonises the conditions for the use and placing on the market of gas-fired appliances in view of the risks related to the security of gas supply and the rational use of energy.
‒ i supported the amendments to directive 2009/142/ec which advocate that all gas-fuelled appliances available on the market meet conditions which should ensure a high level of protection of health and safety of the user, as well as his property and the rational use of energy.
this is in line with the union's energy policy and does not affect the application and implementation of union legislation in the field of energy efficiency and renewable energy sources.
i consider that this proposal will harmonise the conditions for the placing on the market of such appliances, which will contribute to simplifying environmental regulation and ensure a more favourable functioning of the market for appliances fuelled with gaseous fuels.
i also support clear targets that will benefit both producers and consumers, taking into account safety measures and the rational distribution of energy.
i consider that the proper and efficient functioning of the internal market requires common rules for gas appliances with regard to the health and safety risks arising from the use of gas and their energy efficiency.
in order to achieve this, it is necessary to ensure a uniform implementation of the rules throughout the union, taking into account that certain aspects of cableways, such as regional planning and environmental protection, remain the competence of the member states.
the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the proposed amendments on the environment and on the environment as a whole.
‒ i supported the amendments to the legislation on cable cars because the new legislative framework brings standardised obligations to manufacturers, importers and market surveillance authorities, which will lead to a significant reduction in administrative barriers, as well as a clearer regulatory environment for all economic operators.
i also support the decision that member states should continue to have the responsibility to regulate other aspects of cableways such as land use, spatial planning and environmental protection.
‒ customs preferences are provided for by a special agreement on incentives for sustainable development and good governance, provided that it has ratified all the necessary conventions and that the latest available conclusions of the supervisory authorities do not indicate serious deficiencies in the effective implementation of any of those conventions.
the customs preferences on the eu market should allow developing countries to participate more in international trade, generating additional export revenues that they can then use to implement their policies of sustainable development and poverty reduction and diversify their economies.
‒ i support the objection to the commission delegated regulation allowing a higher level of sugar in baby food (30% of the energy value, i.e.
‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on support for the peace process in colombia, as the eu, as an active 'player' in creating a more stable world environment based on democratic values, must play an active role in creating peace, stability and prosperity in a country that has been burdened by more than 50 years of internal armed conflict.
in this regard, all activities of both government institutions and the farc, as well as of external countries, involved in ending the conflict and creating the conditions for lasting peace, a democratic environment, the fight against poverty and the application of generally accepted international rules sanctioning the most serious crimes, are supported.
i supported the motion for a resolution because building a lasting and sustainable peace in colombia by ending the internal conflict, which has lasted for more than 50 years and has caused millions of victims, is of primary importance for colombia, but also for the european union and the international community, as reflected in the numerous declarations by various countries and regional and international organisations, including the european union, in support of the peace process.
‒ i welcome the agreement to establish a special jurisdiction for peace, which in colombia, for the first time after decades of conflict, lays the foundations for a stable and sustainable peace within the colombian people, namely between the colombian government and the farc.
at the same time, sustainable peace is possible only when all groups in society are equal and protected from deprivation.
building a lasting and sustainable peace in colombia by ending the internal conflict that has lasted for more than 50 years and has caused millions of victims is important first and foremost for colombia, but also for the european union and the international community, as reflected in numerous declarations by various countries and regional and international organisations, including the european union, in support of the peace process.
the importance of good governance is something that the un recognizes in the 2030 agenda for sustainable development, especially with sdg 16, and i think that's what should be the priority of our foreign development policy and therefore the priority of the work of the un human rights council.
‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on a draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community, of the one part, and kosovo, of the other part, giving its consent to the conclusion of the agreement.
the agreement covers a wide range of issues, from democratic principles and human rights to cooperation in sectors such as education, energy, the environment and legal issues.
furthermore, it is important to emphasise the fact that the agreement creates opportunities for increased contacts between people and experts in sectors such as education, culture, environment and the fight against crime and smuggling.
for all the reasons set out above, i support the proposal of mr ulrike lunacek and his proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community, of the one part, and kosovo, of the other part.
it covers a number of sectors, including respect for and strengthening of democratic principles and human rights, establishing a framework for cooperation in sectors such as education, energy, environment, justice and home affairs.
they were cheated by selling more expensive cars that were supposedly less harmful to the environment.
‒ this proposal was made in the light of last year's revelation of a fraudulent emissions data scandal.
it is necessary to improve market surveillance and to allow for european supervision of car certification in order to ensure compliance with european safety, environmental and production rules.
i supported the appointment of members of the committee of inquiry into the measurement of emissions in the automotive sector because it is necessary to address all the weaknesses of the current automotive certification system.
i think it is necessary to ensure the independence of the emissions test as well as the greater involvement of the european parliament in order to achieve a better exchange of information between national authorities.
‒ the role of the 45-member automotive emissions board of inquiry will be to monitor the effectiveness of emission tests in the automotive sector and to check whether member states have imposed effective and proportionate penalties for infringements of regulation (ec) no 715/2007, including the use of prohibited devices, refusal to provide access to information and falsification of test results.
the council should collect and analyse information to establish whether the commission and the member states have evidence of the use of the defence mechanisms issued by the environmental protection agency and whether they have evidence of the use of prohibited co2 emission test equipment.
‒ i supported the appointment of members of the commission of inquiry into emission measurements in the automotive sector for alleged violations and irregularities in the application of union legislation on the measurement of emissions of harmful gases.
in view of the manipulation of emissions data and the recent events that have shaken the big german car manufacturer (vw), the european union must restore citizens' confidence in its decisions and establish more effective control and enforcement of legal remedies to prevent fraud.
the commission has also received a complaint from the united states environmental protection agency (epa) concerning the use of a device to interfere with the operation of the pipeline.
‒ the creation of a transparent business and investment environment and appropriate regulatory reforms to allow companies and investors that meet eu standards to trade freely within the eu market, as well as to allow eu companies trade access to the markets of georgia, moldova and ukraine is desirable and necessary.
‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the eu's priorities for the 2016 un human rights council, as i agree with the priorities set out in the following themes: the un human rights council, which emphasises that the members of the unhcr should be chosen from among states that respect human rights; civil and political rights, which highlights the problem of changing the constitution to extend political mandates; social and economic rights, the problem of rising poverty and in the field of business and human rights; migration and concerns about the biggest migrant crisis since the second world war; climate change and human rights, and support for the conclusions of the paris agreement; women's rights, children's rights, the fight against terrorism, democratization, integration of human rights into eu policies, and the priorities set out by the countries under the universal periodic review.
the eu must condemn all the crimes committed and act as a mediator and promoter of dialogue aimed at establishing peace and a sustainable solution for the benefit of all people living in the territory of israel and the palestinian authority.
‒ all citizens or residents, whether natural or legal persons of the eu, have the right to make representations to the european parliament, with annual statistics showing that the highest number of representations relate to justice, fundamental rights, the environment and the internal market.
eu citizens use it to make representations in relevant areas such as fundamental rights, the environment, the internal market, health, consumer rights, animal welfare and many others.
for those who do not consider biodiversity conservation a problem, i must say that according to the eurobarometer survey of september 2015, over 80% of europeans expressed concern about the decline of biodiversity.
green urban transport, renewable energy, digitalisation and new smart services are just some of the projects they are preparing.
‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the acceptance of the amendments to the 1998 heavy metals protocol to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution, as this gives consent to accept the amendments to the protocol.
reducing and controlling anthropogenic emissions of lead, cadmium and mercury can greatly help to improve air quality and, accordingly, to reduce their harmful impact on the environment and human health.
in this context, it is necessary to reduce emissions from industrial sources, from waste incineration and during the combustion process.
‒ i supported the recommendation of mep giovanni la vie on protecting human health and ecosystems from the harmful effects of air pollution.
the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution is the first international legally binding instrument in this field.
it was signed in 1979 and came into force in 1983, and it is designed to protect the environment from air pollution.
the convention has been extended to date with eight protocols identifying concrete measures to be taken by parties to reduce their emissions of pollutants.
the amended protocol sets stricter emission limit values for certain substances and an annual national inventory will be conducted including emissions for individual air pollutants, covering inter alia emissions of pops, including pahs, pcdd/pcdfs, hcbs and pcbs.
‒ i supported the proposed amendment of the 1998 aarhus protocol on heavy metals to the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution, which is intended to protect the environment from air pollution.
the european union already has this area in its legal heritage, governed by the ambient air quality and cleaner air for europe directive and the arsenic, cadmium, mercury, nickel and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in outer air directive, which together with the industrial emissions directive and a package of other related regulations form a coherent package that tightly controls heavy metal pollution in the european union.
the adoption of the amendments to the protocol is an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution.
‒ i support the proposed amendments to the 1998 heavy metals protocol to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution.
the amendment itself is already largely covered by eu legislation and aims to provide for stricter limit values for certain emissions and more flexible transition conditions for those who accept this amendment by the end of 2019. croatia ratified the heavy metals protocol back in 2007 and has since adopted all key regulations in line with union regulations setting limits on emissions of pollutants into the air from stationary sources, the quality of liquid petroleum fuels, air quality, waste battery management and chemicals management.
i support the recommendation of my colleague, mr giovanni la vie, on the draft council decision on the acceptance of the amendments to the 1998 heavy metals protocol to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution.
the first legally binding convention in this area, signed in 1979 and entered into force in 1983, is designed to protect the environment from air pollution.
the problems caused by air pollution must be addressed internationally, since air pollutants can travel thousands of miles before settling.
the 1998 amendment to the protocol is already largely covered by eu law and will be further transposed through a new directive which will set updated national emission ceilings for certain pollutants in the atmosphere and provide for annual national emission inventories which should, inter alia, cover emissions of lead, cadmium and mercury.
the ratification of the amendment to the protocol will be a very important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution.
‒ in 1979, the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution was concluded with the aim of limiting and preventing air pollution in order to prevent negative effects on people and the environment.
the heavy metals protocol obliges signatory states to monitor emissions of lead, cadmium and mercury, to phase out leaded petrol and to reduce the level of mercury in alkaline batteries.
i therefore also supported the amendment of the protocol on persistent organic pollutants, as it reports annually on emissions of polychlorinated biphenyls (pcbs), confirming that emissions are lower than in the reference year and creating new limit values for dioxins and furans.
‒ the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution is designed to protect the environment from air pollution.
therefore, the problems caused by air pollution should be addressed at the international level.
the convention has created a framework for controlling and reducing the adverse health and environmental impacts of transboundary air pollution.
the amendment of the protocol is already largely covered by eu legislation, but the new directive will establish updated national emission ceilings for certain air pollutants and provide the conditions for annual national emission inventories covering emissions of lead, cadmium and mercury.
as indicated, the amendment is fully in line with existing eu legislation and ratification of the amendment will be a step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution.
‒ i supported the amendment of the heavy metals protocol to the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution.
studies have shown that air pollutants can travel thousands of miles before they become a sediment, and i believe that the problem of air pollution should be addressed internationally.
increased emissions of heavy metals into the atmosphere have adverse effects on human health, the plant and animal world, and some metals have been shown or suspected to be carcinogenic.
i am of the opinion that the amendment to the heavy metals protocol will establish stricter dust emission limits from large stationary sources, reduce and control anthropogenic emissions of lead, cadmium and mercury into the air and reduce emissions from industrial sources in the incineration and waste incineration processes.
i consider this an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health from transboundary air pollution.
‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the acceptance of the amendments to the protocol on persistent organic pollutants of 1998 to the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution of 1979, as this gives consent to the amendment of the protocol.
i believe it is crucial to pay greater attention to the growing air pollution to protect human health and the environment.
in this context, cross-border pollution requires specific measures and effective action to control and reduce harm to human health and the environment.
‒ i supported the recommendation of mep la vie to amend the 1998 heavy metals protocol to the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution, which was the first international legally binding instrument in this area when it was signed in 1979. since its entry into force in 1983, the convention has been extended to include eight protocols identifying concrete measures to be taken by parties to reduce their emissions of pollutants.
the new directive sets national emission ceilings for certain air pollutants and provides for annual national emission inventories which should cover, inter alia, emissions of lead, cadmium and mercury.
‒ i supported the proposed amendment of the 1998 aarhus protocol on persistent organic pollutants to the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution, intended to protect the environment from air pollution.
the european union already has this area in its legal acquis, regulated by the ambient air quality and clean air for europe directives, but also by the industrial emissions directive and a package of other related regulations, which constitutes a coherent package that tightly controls environmental pollution by persistent organic pollutants in the european union.
it is those rules that ensure that operators of large stationary emission sources use best available techniques (bat), that waste incinerators operate in accordance with the prescribed emission limit values and take effective measures to control those emissions from mobile sources, and that persistent organic pollutants are transported and disposed of in a prescribed manner once they become waste.
the adoption of the amendments to the protocol is an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution by persistent organic pollutants.
‒ i support the amendments to the 1998 protocol on persistent organic pollutants to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution.
the amendments to the protocol include seven new substances, changes to the rules on implementation and on the restriction of certain emissions, and the inclusion of polychlorinated biphenyl.
the ratification of these amendments will ensure a higher level of protection of the environment and human health from organic pollutants.
i hope that its implementation will also ensure the protection of human health and the environment in the croatian border areas around slavonski brod, which are exposed to cross-border pollution.
i agree with the recommendation of my colleague giovanni la vie on the draft council decision on the acceptance of the amendments to the 1998 protocol on persistent organic pollutants to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution.
this convention is the first legally binding convention of its kind and entered into force in 1983. it is intended to protect the environment from air pollution and to create a framework for controlling and reducing damage to human health and the environment caused by long-range transboundary air pollution.
‒ the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution is designed to protect the environment from air pollution.
therefore, the problems caused by air pollution should be addressed at the international level.
the convention has created a framework for controlling and reducing the adverse health and environmental impacts of transboundary air pollution.
the amendment of the protocol is already largely covered by eu legislation, but the new directive will establish updated national emission ceilings for individual air pollutants and provide conditions for annual national emission inventories covering emissions of pops, including pahs, pcdd/pcdfs, hcbs and pcbs.
as indicated, the amendment is fully in line with existing eu legislation and ratification of the amendment will be a step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution.
‒ i supported the amendment of the protocol on persistent organic pollutants because the amendments are fully in line with european union legislation and the updated emission limits for certain atmospheric pollutants will provide tools to address and monitor progress in emission control.
the amendment to the protocol will improve the monitoring and help reduce or eliminate releases, emissions and spills of persistent organic pollutants.
i believe that the amendments will ultimately lead to a reduction in air pollution and its harmful effects on human health and the environment with a particular focus on long-range transboundary air pollution.
‒ biodiversity, which is the unique combination of ecosystems, habitats, species and genes on earth, has in itself immense value that needs to be protected for the benefit of future generations.
that is why we must be concerned about the steady loss of biodiversity in europe.
in conclusion, i support this report and the revision of the biodiversity strategy.
‒ i only voted for the mid-term review report of the eu biodiversity strategy because i believe that this unique combination of ecosystems, habitats, species and genes, called biodiversity, on which humans are highly dependent, needs to be protected for the benefit of future generations.
sustainable and responsible tillage, livestock farming, the diversity of plant species and varieties, the increased use of biomass as an energy source, the transition to a green economy are just some of the key contributions to the conservation of biodiversity.
the loss of biodiversity represents a huge cost to society and therefore investing in biodiversity is essential to maintain a favourable socio-economic situation.
the eu must support developing countries in their efforts to conserve biodiversity.
the eu needs to raise awareness of the importance of biodiversity, as people depend on all the benefits of ecosystems such as clean water, clean air and other natural resources.
the commission and the member states must give greater priority to the achievement of the 2020 biodiversity targets, as the targets set will not be achieved without additional and sustained efforts.
i believe that a more qualitative approach to biodiversity funding is needed, which would involve more funds, and it is very important to link the different funding instruments.
the parties shall cooperate to promote the sustainable management of the world's forests by enhancing ecological processes, biodiversity and forest productivity, and taking into account the rights of indigenous peoples in those areas.
‒ i support the environment, public health and safety committee's mid-term review report on the implementation of the eu biodiversity strategy which clearly shows the current state of play with the implementation of the strategy and correctly points to areas where it is already becoming clear that the strategy will not be able to be delivered.
we are now halfway through the strategy and the figures are as follows: the eu's ecological footprint is twice the eu's biocapacity.
the most relevant legislation consists of the environmental directives.
the implementation of the birds and habitats directive is an absolute prerequisite for achieving a biodiversity strategy as a whole.
these directives have been a milestone in european environmental policy, having created the single natura 2000 network, which now covers over 26 000 protected areas.
‒ biodiversity is the key to the biological balance of all life on earth.
it is important to emphasise that biodiversity has a great economic and social value.
the effects of climate change are a cause for caution and a great deal of concern because the balance in this area is being irreversibly upset.
as a green/ees representative, i supported a european parliament resolution calling for stronger action to prevent possible serious consequences for biodiversity.
i believe that the emphasis should be on solutions closely linked to nature conservation with the aim of promoting the importance of the forestry and agricultural sectors, which would not only guarantee the security of supply of quality and varied food, but would also have a positive impact on mitigating climate change and preventing a global temperature increase of 2 degrees celsius by restoring ecosystems.
the loss of biodiversity also represents an economic cost for society, as one in six jobs in the european union is directly dependent on the state of biodiversity.
member states should invest more and step up efforts to stimulate innovation by creating green jobs, which would contribute to reducing unemployment, increasing biodiversity and preventing major climate change.
‒ biodiversity itself has enormous value to be protected for the benefit of future generations, and biodiversity is also beneficial for human health and has social and economic value.
the socioeconomic opportunity cost of not meeting the biodiversity headline target is estimated at eur 50 billion per year.
biodiversity policies should fully comply with the principle of subsidiarity in order to fully respect regional differences in landscapes and habitats.
i therefore welcome the mid-term review of the implementation of the biodiversity strategy and the 'state of nature' and 'soer 2015' reports and would stress the strategic importance of these reports for achieving the eu's biodiversity objectives.
‒ i supported the mid-term review of the biodiversity strategy.
since biodiversity constitutes a unique combination of ecosystems, habitats, species and genetic diversity on earth on which humans are highly dependent, and since it has in itself immense value that needs to be protected for the benefit of future generations, i express my serious concern about the continuing loss of biodiversity.
i also believe that nature and economic development are not mutually exclusive and that sustainable economic growth should be encouraged and proactive measures taken to protect and better manage the environment.
‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the implementation of the anti-circumvention mechanism allowing for the temporary suspension of the preferential tariff treatment provided for in the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of moldova, of the other part (com(2015) 0154 c8-0092/2015 2015/0079 ((cod)) - by the ordinary legislative procedure, first reading.
‒ i support the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the implementation of the safeguard clause and the anti-circumvention mechanism allowing for the temporary suspension of preferential customs treatment under the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of moldova, of the other part.
i support the report by mr helmut scholz on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the implementation of the safeguard clause and the anti-circumvention mechanism allowing for the temporary suspension of the preferential customs treatment provided for in the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of moldova, of the other part.
‒ i supported the proposal to allow for the temporary suspension of the preferential customs treatment provided for in the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of moldova, of the other part.
‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the implementation of the anti-circumvention mechanism allowing for the temporary suspension of the preferential tariff treatment provided for in the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part (com ((2015) 0155 c8-0091/2015 2015/0080 ((cod))), in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure, first reading.
the proposal allows for the temporary suspension of preferential customs treatment between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part.
‒ i support the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the implementation of the anti-circumvention mechanism allowing for the temporary suspension of preferential customs treatment under the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part.
i support the report by mr gabrielius landberg on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the implementation of the anti-circumvention mechanism, allowing for the temporary suspension of the preferential tariff treatment provided for in the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part.
it aims to create a transparent business and investment environment and appropriate regulatory reforms, and the rules must be the same for all.
the problem the european union has with gmos will not go away on its own, nor is the status quo sustainable.
the commission is invited to withdraw its draft decision and to present a new legislative proposal for amendment, taking into account national issues that go beyond concerns related to the safety of genetically modified organisms for health and the environment.
on 20 march 2015, the international agency for research on cancer, the world health organisation's cancer-specialized agency, placed glyphosate in the category of substances likely to be carcinogenic to humans, and on 4 september 2015, the california office for environmental health hazard assessment (oehha) also issued a notice of its intention to add glyphosate to its list of chemicals and states known to cause cancer.
i consider the use of potentially carcinogenic substances in the environment to be an unwarranted risk.
the commission has also concluded that the use of gmos in food and feed is not a legitimate concern for the health of consumers and that the use of gmos in food and feed is not justified by the risk of contamination of the environment.
‒ given that genetically modified soybean mst-fgø72-2 expresses the protein 2mepsps, which causes tolerance to glyphosate-containing herbicides, and the protein hppd w336, which causes tolerance to isoxaflutol-containing herbicides, and that glyphosate is classified as a substance likely to cause cancer in humans by the international agency for research on cancer, a specialized agency of the world health organisation, i consider that the draft commission implementing decision is not in line with union legislation, which implies providing the basis for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests with regard to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market.
the problem the european union has with gmos will not go away on its own, nor is the status quo sustainable.
the commission is invited to withdraw its draft decision and to present a new legislative proposal for amendment, taking into account national issues that go beyond concerns related to the safety of genetically modified organisms for health and the environment.
on 20 march 2015, the international agency for research on cancer, the world health organisation's cancer-specialized agency, placed glyphosate in the category of substances likely to be carcinogenic to humans, and on 4 september 2015, the california office for environmental health hazard assessment (oehha) also issued a notice of its intention to add glyphosate to its list of chemicals and states known to cause cancer.
the use of potentially carcinogenic substances in the environment is a risk i consider unwarranted.
in the light of the above, i consider that the draft commission implementing decision concerning the authorisation of the placing on the market of products containing genetically modified soybean mon 87708 × mon 89788 is not in accordance with union legislation, as it is not consistent with the objectives and principles of providing a basis for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests with regard to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market.
the commission's approval is based solely on the assessment of the health and environmental risks of the gmo and excludes the socio-economic impact of the gmo and the consequences of the pollution resulting from the gmo, which i consider insufficiently comprehensive and therefore agree with the objection proposal.
the problem the european union has with gmos will not go away on its own, nor is the status quo sustainable.
the commission is invited to withdraw its draft decision and to present a new legislative proposal for amendment, taking into account national issues that go beyond concerns related to the safety of genetically modified organisms for health and the environment.
on 20 march 2015, the international agency for research on cancer, the world health organisation's cancer-specialized agency, placed glyphosate in the category of substances likely to be carcinogenic to humans, and on 4 september 2015, the california office for environmental health hazard assessment (oehha) also issued a notice of its intention to add glyphosate to its list of chemicals and states known to cause cancer.
the use of potentially carcinogenic substances in the environment is a risk i consider unwarranted.
‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the draft commission regulation amending regulation (ec) no 692/2008 as regards emissions from light passenger and commercial vehicles (euro 6), as air pollution is one of the biggest problems of our time and the cause of many diseases and premature deaths.
according to a recent analysis of air pollution by the european environment agency, 75,000 premature deaths in europe are attributed to nitrogen oxide emissions, in this case specifically no2.
i agree that the commission should submit a new draft regulation, as the motion for a resolution itself requires, to examine real driving emissions for all vehicles and to guarantee the effectiveness of the emission control system.
‒ every year in the union, 430 000 premature deaths are caused by air pollution.
sustained efforts to reduce vehicle emissions are needed to achieve the eu's air quality targets.
the measurement of emissions in the automotive sector is an essential element to maintain air quality and it is necessary to introduce national emission ceilings for certain pollutants.
the introduction of such measures to reduce nox emissions at an early stage will provide long-term planning certainty for vehicle manufacturers across europe.
the commission is requested to withdraw the draft regulation without delay and to submit a new one by 1 april 2016 at the latest, in order to introduce real driving emissions testing for all vehicles and to guarantee the effectiveness of the emission control system.
i did not support the objection under article 106 because i believe that there needs to be a systematic and harmonised way of monitoring air emissions without harming the automotive industry.
‒ objection to the draft commission regulation amending regulation (ec) no 692/2008 as regards emissions from light passenger and commercial vehicles (euro 6) did not receive a sufficient number of votes.
the proposed would also mean maintaining the status quo until a new proposal is made, without any real reduction in emissions, which is in no one's interest.
in this regard, it is necessary to establish a proven and reliable real-world emission test methodology, which will result in a real reduction of emissions of air pollutants (in particular nitrogen oxides) from light passenger and commercial vehicles.
‒ more than 430 000 premature deaths caused by air pollution are recorded in the union every year and the costs associated with the health impacts of air pollution are estimated at eur 940 billion per year.
according to a recent analysis of air pollution by the european environment agency, 75 000 premature deaths are attributed to no2 emissions in europe, with 93% of all overrunning occurring in areas close to roads.
these are shocking figures that point to the urgent need for action to reduce emissions and mitigate the consequences they cause.
i support the motion for a resolution on the objection under rule 106 of the rules of procedure on emissions from light passenger and commercial vehicles (euro 6).
each year in the european union, over 430 000 premature deaths are recorded due to air pollution, and the costs associated with the health impacts of air pollution are estimated at €940 billion per year.
nitrogen oxides are one of the main causes of air pollution, which causes lung cancer, asthma, and many other respiratory diseases, among others, as well as environmental degradation involving processes such as eutrophication and acidification.
according to a recent analysis of air pollution by the european environment agency, 75 000 premature deaths are attributed to no2 emissions in europe, with 93% of all overrunning occurring in areas close to roads.
the commission should be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment-related aspects of the union's policy on air quality.
the commission should be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment-related aspects of the union's greenhouse gas emissions reduction strategy.
in addition to causing cancer, asthma, and numerous respiratory diseases, they are extremely damaging to the environment by causing eutrophication and acidification.
regulation (ec) no 715/2007 agreed to set a euro 6 threshold and to achieve limits not only for the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions but also for the emissions of nitrogen oxides and pm (fine particulate matter).
‒ the fact is that there are more than 430 000 premature deaths caused by air pollution in the union every year and that the costs associated with the health impact of air pollution are estimated at eur 940 billion per year.
according to a recent analysis of air pollution by the european environment agency, 75 000 premature deaths are attributed to no2 emissions in europe, with 93% of all overrunning occurring in areas close to roads.
in particular, a significant reduction in the emissions of nitrogen oxides from diesel vehicles is needed to improve air quality and meet the limit values for pollutants.
‒ i voted against the objection on emissions from light passenger and commercial vehicles (euro 6) as i believe that emissions problems must be addressed in accordance with real driving emissions (rde) tests.
in particular, in view of the manipulation of the data and the recent events that have shaken the german car manufacturer, i consider that rde testing will ensure the control of real driving emissions and thus contribute to a clear reduction of harmful gases and to an improvement of air quality.
as i believe that the implementation of such tests will reduce emissions and improve air quality at the same time, i believe that we should not risk further delaying the achievement of the vehicle emission reduction target with such objections.
however, states need to be able to take certain measures to protect their citizens as well as national security and to support agreements aimed at protecting the environment.
trade agreements should also contribute to sustainable development, promote corporate social responsibility at global level and level the playing field for european companies.
the citizens of haiti need a government that will implement the structural reforms necessary to complete haiti's democratic transition and that will enable sustainable growth and development, and thereby ultimately eradicate extreme poverty.
and my country recently signed a preliminary agreement on an energy project.
every investment from every fund ends up in some local or regional environment and that's why their participation is important.
local and regional authorities today face challenges such as globalisation, climate change, energy security and migration flows, and it should be borne in mind that each region has its own specificities and specific needs.
i welcome the opening of negotiations and chapters 32 (financial supervision) and 35 (other issues item i: process of normalisation of relations with kosovo) at the intergovernmental conference in brussels on 14 december 2015 and the continued commitment of serbia to the process of european integration; serbia's progress in terms of business environment, budget deficit reduction and labour market; progress on economic reforms; constructive approach to the migration crisis; progress in the field of justice; better cooperation between government and civil society; adoption of a comprehensive public administration reform action plan; commitment to the development of a specific action plan for national minorities that will allow further progress; further engagement of serbia in building good neighbourly relations with kosovo; continued cooperation with neighbouring countries, improvement of bilateral peace and dispute resolution.
there is a problem of adopting the acquis in the field of transport and energy infrastructure, implementing legislation on waste, creating a legal framework for participation in the egtc.
‒ in libya, the deterioration of the state governance, human rights and humanitarian situation has been driven by the outbreak of violence and an increasingly unstable political environment.
the commission has also taken the view that the measures provided for in this regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection,
written.
the eu's islands are peripheral regions located on the eu's external borders and are particularly vulnerable to the challenges facing the eu, such as globalisation, demographic trends, climate change, energy supply and exposure to rising migration.
the european islands contribute to the diversity of the union in an ecological and cultural sense and therefore better connectivity through sea routes, improved access to ports and better air services are essential.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation in the member states.
the eu islands are also peripheral regions located on the eu's external borders and are particularly sensitive to the challenges europe is currently facing, such as globalisation, demographic trends, climate change, energy supply and, especially for the southern areas, exposure to increasing migration flows.
the commission should be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection of the islands, in particular by assessing the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and climate change, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on climate change.
in this context, in addition to seasonal tourism, the development of sustainable tourism, with a focus on the promotion of cultural heritage and specific craft economic activities, is also mentioned, as is the enormous potential of ocean, wind and solar energy and the possibility for islands to become important sources of alternative energy, as energy autonomous as possible and, above all, to guarantee their inhabitants a cheaper energy supply.
as such, they are particularly sensitive to the challenges europe is currently facing, such as globalisation, climate change, energy supply.
the islands contribute to the union's environmental and cultural diversity.
parliament called on the member states, but also on regional and local authorities, to play an important role in island development in order to ensure the sustainable development of the islands of the european union.
i support the proposals put forward in this debate because i believe that islands have the potential that should be exploited for development, growth and job creation, not only in the context of seasonal tourism but also in the context of sustainable tourism.
it is also worth noting the huge potential of sea, wind and solar energy, which could enable the islands to become important and autonomous sources of alternative energy.
currently, local and regional authorities are facing major challenges such as globalisation, climate change, energy security, the wave of migration and accelerated urbanisation.
given the importance of involving local units in the definition and implementation of cohesion and economic policy with a view to achieving sustainable economic growth and development, i supported the motion for a resolution by rapporteur mihaylov.
support is needed for regional and local authorities to strengthen their role and influence in applying for european structural and investment funds, in particular for the period 2014-2020, which i believe will result in economic growth and sustainable job creation.
‒ the eu's cohesion policy for the 2014-2020 programming period remains the main investment instrument covering all eu regions and the opportunity to create a sustainable growth process that would move more 'bottom-up', supporting job creation, entrepreneurship and innovation at the level of local and regional economies, and thus improve the quality of life of citizens in the eu's regions and lead to solidarity and more successful development.
i believe that regional and local authorities are closer to citizens and have a better understanding of local needs and policies and initiatives designed to improve citizens' lives in the areas of employment, innovation, health, environment, energy, transport.
‒ the eu's cohesion policy for the 2014-2020 programming period remains the main investment instrument covering all eu regions and is an opportunity to create a sustainable growth process that would be more 'bottom-up', supporting job creation, entrepreneurship and innovation at the level of local and regional economies, and thus improving the quality of life of citizens in the eu regions and leading to solidarity and more successful development.
multi-level governance supports the eu's core policy objectives of economic growth, social progress and sustainable development, and strengthens the democratic dimension of the european union and increases the efficiency of its political action.
it is an opportunity for local and regional economies to create new jobs, entrepreneurial and innovative innovation, and sustainable growth.
parliament believes that multilevel governance is the basis for achieving political objectives in the union such as economic development, social progress, sustainable development and ensuring the democratic dimension of the union.
however, local and regional authorities today face challenges such as globalisation, climate change, energy security and migration flows and it should be taken into account that each region has its own specificities and specific needs.
because, for example, in the adriatic sea there are significant ports, significant capacities that could improve the transport of goods from southern europe to central and eastern europe, precisely by contributing to the reduction of co2 emissions.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's transport and environmental policy in the period 2014-2020 and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's transport and environmental policy in the period 2014-2020. what i would also stress as important is that, especially in countries that use the cohesion funds, the absorption of the use of these cohesion funds for rail infrastructure development needs to be improved.
mr president, commissioner, i welcome the inclusion of this item on the agenda because rail is a very important, cheaper and better for the environment form of transport, and it is not developed in europe, or in the european union as a whole, and especially not developed in this area we are talking about.
rail transport is the most cost-effective means of transporting people and goods, reduces costs for citizens in their daily transport and reduces co2 emissions to the environment.
the success of the european semester requires a great deal of coordination: coordination between local, regional, national objectives and needs with objectives at eu level; coordination between cohesion policy and recommendations to member states; coordination of different sources of funding and achieving synergies; coordination of and focus on the implementation of different european policies, such as environmental protection, transport policy, energy, digital, urban, rural, innovation, research and development and of course cohesion and economic policies.
especially if we want to connect the education system, if we want to connect the environmental system, if we want to connect the social system with our economic growth.
so far we have 15. i look forward to parliament voting in may on ratification by the eu, and i can tell you that we are putting a lot of attention and energy into facilitating more ratification so we can have it in force by 2022. so what is the future of the pmi agreement?
the strong historical tradition of glassmaking in wallonia is facing major challenges today, including overcapacity in asia combined with higher production costs and stricter environmental standards in europe, which ultimately resulted in the dismissal of 412 belgian workers from hainaut-hamur glass who had become surplus.
it is also necessary to improve the current business environment in order to attract investment and to increase confidence in the eu and to ensure that public spending is efficient and economically sustainable.
in addition to the economic challenges that have arisen in the midst of the digital revolution and technological innovation, it is also important to look at longer-term challenges such as climate change, robotization, demographic change and the shift towards a multipolar world.
i would also stress that achieving a stronger economic recovery and sustainable, widespread prosperity requires significant national efforts in terms of effective implementation of structural reforms as well as stronger european coordination.
it stresses the need to address macroeconomic imbalances, improve the business environment, respect common fiscal rules, reduce public debt and combat long-term unemployment.
i support the report because it stresses the need to invest in structural reforms, productivity and reducing macroeconomic inequalities, and the importance of enabling the free movement of people, goods, services and capital, which is the foundation of sustainable economic growth in the european union market.
‒ we are witnessing a situation of increasing youth unemployment, undeclared work, which threatens workers' access to social protection systems, as well as risks to the sustainability of social security, especially with regard to persons at risk of social exclusion (e.g.
in this context, employment and social growth must be at the heart of eu policies as a means of achieving a more sustainable european social union, as well as ensuring the sustainability of social protection in the face of the expected ageing of the population and promoting family-friendly policies that can increase the capacity of parents to ensure the well-being of their children and contribute to an increase in birth rates.
i believe that sustainable and inclusive growth, resulting in more and better jobs and concrete prospects for all, especially young people, needs to be promoted in order to respond to the internal and external challenges facing the european union.
in addition to the financial and social consequences, unemployment, youth unemployment and long-term unemployment negatively affect social cohesion and ultimately impede sustainable economic growth.
therefore, it is of the utmost importance to invest in social development that ensures sustainable and inclusive economic development and also positively impacts social and economic cohesion, which should be the primary objective of eu policy.
it is not only a means of guaranteeing sustainable and inclusive economic development but also a priority in its own right.
since i do not believe that a common analysis and definition of the social and economic dimension strategies of the member states can be consolidated within the european union, i believe that structural reforms will not strengthen the business environment in order to create more quality jobs and achieve a balance between the social and economic dimension.
i welcome the single market strategy because the various commission measures (capital markets union, digital single market, energy union, etc.)
the promotion of the single market will generate structural and sustainable economic growth and increase investment in new jobs.
i support the report and the guidelines it sets out, considering it necessary to create an enabling environment for the development of entrepreneurship, to encourage cooperation and competitiveness among smes and thus to exploit the industrial potential of technological innovation and research.
the eu and tunisia will continue to cooperate in the field of the peaceful uses of nuclear energy, including through the development of a comprehensive and integrated energy policy.
i agree that low energy prices, if maintained at current levels for at least several months, with inflation of up to 2%, will be a significant factor in boosting competitiveness and job creation in 2016. the report on the ecb's annual report for 2014 identified problems hampering economic progress.
‒ according to the commission's latest autumn forecast, the euro area expects the economic recovery to strengthen and real gdp is projected to grow by 1,4 % in 2015, 1,7 % in 2016 and 1,8 % in 2017. a strong political commitment to implementing sustainable and socially balanced structural reforms is key to boosting economic growth.
a strong political commitment to implementing sustainable and socially balanced structural reforms is key to boosting economic growth.
‒ the commission's latest autumn forecast expects the euro area economic recovery to strengthen and real gdp to grow by 1,4 % in 2015, 1,7 % in 2016 and 1,8 % in 2017. the foundations for growth are fragile, and a strong political commitment to sustainable and socially balanced structural reforms is key to boosting economic growth.
australia and new zealand are close to the european union not only in terms of shared values and interests but also in terms of their shared views on important international issues, such as the fight against terrorism or tackling climate change.
they are two of only six wto member states that still do not have preferential access to the eu market and are not participating in negotiations to that end, and both fully respect the rule of law and are currently strongly protecting the environment and human, social and labour rights.
i also think it is important to include a sustainable development chapter in the free trade agreement with australia and new zealand and that is why i supported it.
both countries fully respect the rule of law and strongly protect environmental, human, social and labour rights.
the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the aid on the environment and the environment protection of the union's forests.
‒ the eu, australia and new zealand are like-minded partners with many shared values and interests, committed to promoting global prosperity and security within a rules-based system, and aligned on key global issues such as human rights, security, development and the environment.
marine litter is the result of exclusively human activities - it knows no borders and is a persistent problem that extends far beyond the source of pollution.
waste collection is mainly carried out on the initiative of local communities and associations, as recently in the town of trstenik.
in addition to the environmental cost, marine litter has a socio-economic impact as it affects coastal communities, as clean coastlines are key to tourism.
the objective is for countries to work together to tackle marine litter more effectively in order to achieve together the important goal of good ecological status for all marine waters by 2020.
the question he raised by raising his blue card.
in order to respond to the challenges facing the maritime transport sector, such as the inefficiencies of a sustainable transport and logistics chain, i support the continuation of negotiations on the creation of a framework for market access to port services and financial transparency of ports which should enhance the efficiency of maritime ports and the trans-european transport networks.
the report, although not fully compliant with the environmental criteria for establishing a framework for access to the market for port services, represents the third attempt to liberalise maritime port services, as two previous commission proposals were rejected by parliament.
the liberalisation of maritime port services in europe is a strategically important decision requiring caution in the following areas: meeting the environmental criteria for loading in ports, considering the social aspects of the impact of the regulation, reducing long-distance navigation and comprehensively protecting workers' rights.
i am pleased to see statistics as a priority area for the commission, given the simplification and improvement of the regulatory environment that is being announced.
the basic version of the directive itself seeks to reduce emissions of sulphur dioxide from the combustion of certain types of liquid fuels and thus to reduce the harmful effects of such emissions on humans and the environment.
the consolidated directive should, after the implementation of the codification, be in line with the revised appendix vi to the international convention for the prevention of pollution from ships as amended by the protocol of 1978 and containing provisions for the prevention of air pollution from ships.
‒ the european commission directive 1999/32 on the reduction of sulphur in certain liquid fuels aims to reduce sulphur dioxide emissions from the combustion of certain liquid fuels, thereby reducing the harmful impact of such emissions on humans and the environment.
those reductions in sulphur dioxide emissions will be achieved by imposing a limit on the sulphur content of the combustion of certain liquid fuels, which creates a condition for their use in the territory of the member states.
sulphur dioxide emissions are one of the causes of acidification and particulate matter in the european union, they cause acid rain that pollutes forests, rivers, lakes and other natural resources, and they are one of the factors causing damage to ecosystems, biodiversity and human health.
the european union's environmental policy is designed to achieve a satisfactory level of air quality, primarily to safeguard the health of its citizens.
the proposal for a directive promotes environmental awareness and i consider it necessary to reduce the percentage of sulphur in liquid fuels and to encourage the use of other renewable energy sources, such as electricity.
despite all efforts to change the situation, a significant proportion of the eu population lives in areas where air quality standards are still exceeded and pollution is at high levels, particularly harmful to residents with respiratory problems.
although methods to reduce sulphur emissions will require significant financial expenditure, they will also have a significant impact on the environment and human health.
‒ i supported this regulation as it represents a step forward in reducing the harmful effects of sulphur dioxide on the environment.
in addition to controls, it is necessary to develop cost-benefit analyses of maritime transport and to promote the development of maritime transport versus land transport, as land transport in any case creates more congestion and is contrary to the union's climate change objectives.
‒ i supported this report because i believe that this proposal will contribute to the protection of the environment and people.
sulfur has been shown to be present in small amounts in petroleum and is the main source of sulfur dioxide emissions, which is one of the main causes of acid rain and air pollution.
this will ensure better living conditions for our descendants and preserve the diversity of biological life as well as the beauty of the environment.
to achieve this, the european commission has consistently advocated a policy of sustainable and low prices for medicines, combined with market segmentation between rich and poor countries.
this approach promotes the sustainability of stocks and the continued distribution of medicines that help to eliminate the diseases that dominate these areas: hiv/aids, tuberculosis and malaria.
the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
if food production is threatened, especially in times of the pronounced effects of climate change that we are witnessing almost daily, there is a great danger to the food security of the citizens of the european union.
i welcome the report on the guidelines and identified priorities of the european parliament in the eu budget for 2017: the emphasis on the need to address crises, migration and refugee crises; the importance and role of the european fund for strategic investments; measures for economic growth; allocations under the youth employment initiative; guarantees for children; climate change and the implementation of the refugee instrument in turkey.
it is also necessary to avoid administrative burdens for citizens and businesses and to strengthen the competitiveness and sustainability of the european economy.
transparency and parity between legislations are key to achieving agreement and quality legislation more quickly in the areas of greatest value to european citizens, and quality legislation reduces excessive regulation and administrative burdens for citizens, administrations and businesses, in particular smes, thus contributing to the competitiveness and sustainability of the union economy.
‒ parliament has repeatedly called for the 2003 interinstitutional agreement on better law-making to be renegotiated in order to take account of the new legislative environment created by the lisbon treaty, consolidate current best practices and modernise the agreement in line with the better law-making agenda.
‒ taking into account the new legislative environment created by the lisbon treaty, integrating current best practices and modernising agreements in line with the better regulation agenda are key factors in making legislation as effective and adequate as possible within the european union.
the commission notes that the agreement with pmi initially made an important contribution to the fight against illicit trade in tobacco, but that since the signing of the current agreement there have been significant changes in both the market and regulatory environment, in particular with regard to the increased presence of cigarettes of an unknown brand intended for illicit sale - the so-called cheap whites.
the programme proposed by the commission shortly afterwards focuses on energy investment and, to a lesser extent, on effective management in the energy sector and therefore did not reflect the conclusions of our debate in parliament.
macedonia is a small, multiethnic country burdened by serious internal conflicts in a turbulent geopolitical environment.
on a related note, the council shares the view expressed in your draft resolution that montenegro should intensify its efforts to guarantee freedom of expression and of the media, to pursue the public administration reform and to strengthen the independence of institutions, as well as to improve the business environment.
sustainable and constructive cooperation remains essential to maintaining the necessary political commitments to effectively address outstanding challenges, to deliver on the reform agenda and to progress in the accession negotiations.
the focus is on sectoral reforms, including on education, labour market, infrastructure, and the business environment.
meeting them is a challenge for the country, in particular when we talk about alignment with the eu acquis on competition policy, or environment and climate change.
i am therefore pleased that in the debate we have placed particular emphasis on the establishment of a business-friendly environment which means an efficient judiciary and a fast and simple public administration.
this report introduces the harmonisation of the system for the use of veterinary products, stimulates the development of veterinary medicine and takes particular account of the reduction of the negative impact on the environment, which is why i supported it.
animals can suffer from a whole range of diseases that must be prevented or treated with veterinary medicinal products to ensure their health, and it is our role to ensure that pharmaceutical substances or veterinary medicinal products manufactured or placed on the market do not have harmful effects on human or animal health or any unacceptable impact on the environment.
‒ i supported this proposal for a regulation because it has the potential to simplify the regulatory environment and reduce the administrative burden in the issuance and management of veterinary medicinal products.
the production of antimicrobials also has an impact on the environment, but unfortunately this regulation does not require manufacturers to report data on those impacts.
at the same time, the testing of new products, the monitoring of their side effects and impacts on animal health, and the impacts on public health and the environment must not be reduced in any way.
at the same time, the testing of new products, the monitoring of their side effects and impacts on animal health, and the impacts on public health and the environment must not be reduced in any way.
decision-making based on knowledge gained from big data systems can result in significant increases in productivity and competitiveness, and the benefits of these systems will contribute to an additional annual gdp growth of 1,9% by 2020. according to idc (international data corporation), the growth rate of the big data market could result in the creation of 3,75 million new jobs by 2017, which is extremely important given the economic climate prevailing in europe.
i therefore hope that this resolution will also contribute to the speedy amendment of the existing legal framework and to the creation of a favourable climate for the development of a data-based economy.
we must continue to insist on respect for human rights, eradicating poverty and encouraging investment in energy policy, because many rural parts of the country still do not even have electricity.
macedonia is a geographically small, multi-ethnic country, but burdened by serious internal divisions in a turbulent geopolitical environment.
the report calls for accountability of both the government and the opposition and for ensuring sustainable political dialogue and cooperation, which are important for the democratic development of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia.
i also believe that it is important to achieve energy objectives alongside democratic objectives, in particular those relating to energy efficiency and the modernisation of public transport with neighbouring countries for which initial plans have been presented.
i also believe that macedonia enjoys a stable macroeconomic environment, maintains good relations with the other candidate countries and plays an active role in regional cooperation.
i am therefore pleased that the establishment of a favourable business environment, which means an efficient judiciary and a fast and simple public administration, is particularly highlighted.
‒ further progress has been made in the accession negotiations with montenegro and two further negotiating chapters, namely on transport and energy, were opened at the intergovernmental conference in brussels on 21 december 2015, with montenegro being the most advanced country in the enlargement process in terms of the negotiating process.
breach of that principle infringes the right of citizens, in this case farmers, to a healthy life in a healthy environment as well as their safety at work.
however, in order to move beyond tradition and to ensure the future sustainability of island communities, parliament strongly supports the diversification of the fisheries sector through the development of complementary activities and investment in vessels, safety equipment, training and innovation, with the key objective of financing activities that are socially, environmentally and economically sustainable.
i therefore agree that coastal, small-scale coastal and traditional fisheries need to be defined in accordance with the socioeconomic characteristics, the protection of biodiversity and the specificities of the different regions, and not just in accordance with the size and power of fishing vessels, given the fact that the existing european union regulations are not satisfactory.
it recognises that sustainable fishing partnership agreements contribute to sustainable fishing and to the development of the fisheries sector in partner countries.
sustainable fisheries partnership agreements (sfpas) contribute to the achievement of development goals, in particular food security.
we need to help developing countries to manage their resources in a sustainable way, and this is key for the supply of healthy food and for the livelihood of coastal populations.
i welcome the report’s finding that sfpas are a very successful tool that integrate the partnership component and commercial aspects of the sfpas, and that they promote transparency, sustainability and accountability.
i also share your objective that we should ensure even better consistency between fisheries, environmental and trade policy, as well as development cooperation.
this is already a highly effective tool, supporting our third-country partners in developing their fisheries sector in a sustainable way and in fighting illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
some of the report’s recommendations have already been included in my recent proposal on the sustainable management of the external fleet.
we will continue to act globally at the level of the un and fao to have the legal framework we need, regionally to have efficient fisheries management bodies in place, and bilaterally in the framework of sustainable fisheries partnership agreements and dialogues with key partners to make sure fish stocks are managed in the best possible way and in a transparent manner.
madam president, in many member states, and here i would particularly point out my home country, croatia, there is a lack of measures for the energy renovation of multi-storey buildings, and in particular those measures that focus on vulnerable and socially vulnerable groups of consumers.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states.
i fully support the proposal for a new agreement for a period of five years which will certainly ensure mutual benefit, but it should take into account the conservation of marine biodiversity and ensure that the activities to be implemented are sustainable and environmentally sound.
a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources should be a priority as they are in the common interest.
i welcome the initiative that the next protocol serves to increase financial interests in terms of sustainable exploitation of fish stocks.
i also support better follow-up of scientific recommendations because without such recommendations we cannot talk about sustainable fisheries, which is of particular interest to the eu, and especially because the eu is a leader in sustainable fisheries policy.
the new protocol, covering a period of five years from the date of its signature, provides for an annual financial contribution of eur 17 799 978. the protocol should strengthen cooperation between the european union and greenland and promote the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the greenland fishing zone.
this will also strengthen cooperation with greenland and develop a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible exploitation of fishery resources in the greenlandic fishing zone.
the greenlandic economy is highly dependent on the fisheries sector and the new protocol, covering a period of five years from the date of signature, should strengthen the cooperation between the eu and greenland in a way that promotes the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources.
furthermore, the protocol is in line with the objectives of the abovementioned agreement as it strengthens the cooperation between the union and greenland and promotes a partnership framework to develop a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible exploitation of fish in greenland's fishing zone.
the new protocol will strengthen the cooperation between the union and greenland and promote a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the greenland fishing zone in the interest of both parties.
i would also stress the importance of the article on the taxation of aviation fuel, which is in line with the council directive on the restructuring of the community system of taxation of energy products and electricity, and the importance of the article prohibiting practices that distort competition.
‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the fisheries aspects covered by the international agreement on marine biodiversity in areas beyond the national jurisdiction of the united nations convention on the law of the sea, because i believe that it is necessary to ensure the sustainable management of oceans and seas in order to provide a concrete solution to the problem of environmental pollution.
71% of our planet is covered by the sea, which is home to a significant part of the world's biodiversity and a priceless heritage that is increasingly in serious danger.
the increasing number of marine activities taking place in the underwater world threatens the conservation of biodiversity and reduces the level of marine resources.
i believe that such activities should, above all, be sustainable and in line with international obligations and rules.
i believe that it is essential to strengthen international binding instruments and to fully exploit and unleash the potential of the blue economy in accordance with the principles of fair and sustainable exploitation.
the conference highlighted the need for an international approach to prevent, reduce and conserve marine biodiversity.
in recent decades, the dynamics of marine activities that directly affect marine biodiversity have increased significantly.
it has contributed to the decline of biodiversity and the degradation of ecosystems.
in view of its international impact, the union actively promotes the protection and control of marine biodiversity as well as the conservation of marine ecosystems and defines the instruments to achieve this.
sustainable use and conservation of marine biodiversity is closely linked to sustainable development, is long-term and is of paramount importance for all countries from an economic, social and environmental point of view, which is why i supported the report.
‒ aware of the importance of conserving and using oceans, seas and their resources sustainably, i support the report which calls for the eu and the international community to promote the conservation and sustainable use of marine resources by introducing, alongside other measures, modern fisheries management concepts.
i also welcome the decision of the un general assembly to take steps towards developing a new international instrument under unclos for marine biodiversity in areas beyond national jurisdictional boundaries to address the shortcomings of the current situation.
the commission should support and promote the establishment of linked, clear and representative networks of marine protected areas, as these networks are necessary to ensure ecological and biological coherence, just as this new international agreement should guarantee a level playing field for all stakeholders.
‒ as a representative from a country with access to the open sea, where the majority of the coastal population depends on fishing as a branch of the economy, pointing out that the preservation of healthy marine habitats and sustainable fish stocks, both in national waters and in areas beyond national jurisdiction, is of key importance for the long-term sustainability of fisheries.
in recent decades, the number of activities carried out in the marine environment has increased, and with it the pressure on sustainability and the conservation of marine biodiversity.
the potential for growth and jobs is enormous and should be harnessed within the ecological limits of the marine environment.
fisheries and aquaculture play an important role in the marine economy, and responsible fisheries and aquaculture are key to the sustainable and healthy development of marine ecosystems.
for this reason, i welcome the initiative for a comprehensive regime at global level to better cover the conservation and management of marine biodiversity in areas beyond national jurisdiction.
it is necessary to emphasise the importance of a comprehensive global regime for the protection of the world's waters in order to deal with pollution and the growing threat to marine biodiversity, as the preservation of healthy marine habitats and sustainable fish stocks is of key importance for the long-term sustainability of fisheries.
the commission will continue to support the development of a global approach to the conservation of marine biodiversity, including the establishment of a global framework for the conservation of marine biodiversity.
the need for an international approach to the management of pollution and the growing threats to marine biodiversity is emphasised.
the importance of conserving and using oceans, seas and their resources sustainably, and of introducing modern fisheries management concepts, maintaining fish stocks at levels that allow maximum sustainable yield and conserving and managing biodiversity based on ecosystems, is also highlighted.
each state has an obligation to protect the marine environment and habitats of rare species, which requires good coordination of all actors involved in marine activities.
i support the motion for a resolution because i believe it is very important to preserve marine biodiversity, especially beyond the limits of national jurisdiction.
‒ i supported the fight against illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing, which is by its nature a threat to marine biodiversity and seriously threatens the conservation of the marine ecosystem.
the seas and oceans have a lot of potential for blue growth and development in the form of renewable energy sources, pharmaceuticals, the development of knowledge about the marine environment and its ecosystem and are therefore very important for all countries and territories.
i believe that the protection of natural resources is essential for economic and social development, which is a prerequisite for the sustainable development of fisheries.
in this context, i believe that breeders have a very important role to play in protecting biodiversity, and i therefore support the conservation and advancement of animal breeding, as well as the rules governing the conservation and enhancement of native and endangered breeds.
regulated breeding contributes to food security in the eu and plays a key role in the conservation of rare breeds and thus biodiversity.
the objective of the zootechnical legislation of the european union is to promote free trade in breeding animals and their genetic material, taking into account the sustainability of breeding programmes and the conservation of genetic resources, thereby maintaining the competitiveness of the sector of breeding animals and their genetic material in the union.
‒ since i believe that the report on the situation in the mediterranean and the need for a comprehensive european union approach to migration does not offer a sustainable solution to the current crisis facing europe and does not make clear proposals on how to tackle the migrant crisis, i voted against.
i welcome this package of measures and the commission's continued commitment to the better regulation programme and that this measure does not seek to deregulate certain policy areas or to undermine values that are important to us, starting with social protection, environmental protection and fundamental rights, one of which is the right to health.
i would stress that the commission's strategy emphasises the importance of social dialogue and respect for the autonomy of the social partners and that the programme does not intend to deregulate certain policy areas and to compromise values such as social protection, environmental protection and fundamental rights.
improving single market regulation does not mean abolishing all regulations or reducing the level of ambition of regulations, but rather eliminating unnecessary regulations, red tape and negative effects while achieving a competitive regulatory environment that encourages employment and entrepreneurship in europe.
the european commission should take into account the recommendations contained in this resolution in its future internal market strategy in order to contribute positively to the creation of a competitive regulatory environment through the strengthening, modification or better promotion of certain instruments.
a minimum common level of education on european issues is needed because integration is not only made up of, for example, states, institutions, laws, markets, etc., but above all citizens who understand the common meaning of creating a european environment.
the establishment of a permanent and sustainable system that is fully operational encourages free movement and the acquisition of skills which would be of great benefit to young people.
‒ mobility for education and training is important for personal development, social inclusion of young people, multicultural dialogue, tolerance, the ability to work in an intercultural environment and active citizenship, and its potential to contribute to high-quality education and employability is clearly demonstrated.
the key is its economic impact, and if the rules are followed, it is also an environmentally sustainable way of fishing.
small-scale coastal fishing is a way of life, a tradition, an environmentally sustainable way of fishing, a source of employment and a factor of stability for individual member states.
i believe that more should be done to promote sustainable fishing practices and to strengthen the role of fishing-based communities in local development.
for this reason, it is important to ensure a high level of employment and sustainable development in areas dependent on fisheries.
as i have emphasised on several occasions in my discussions, i believe that the objectives of protecting biodiversity and marine resources require a regional approach, taking into account all the geographical, biological, sociological and economic specificities.
i would particularly stress the need to halt the current negative trends in the depopulation of coastal areas and islands and to strike the right balance between the interests of the local population and the protection of biodiversity and marine resources, as this is the only way to contribute to the desired objectives.
in addition to ensuring high employment and being socially and environmentally sustainable, in coastal countries such as croatia, it is also a specific way of life.
‒ coastal fishing accounts for 80% of the european fleet and provides a high level of employment in coastal, island and outermost regions, and is an important socially and environmentally sustainable form of fishing.
‒ coastal fishing accounts for 80% of the european fleet and, together with shellfish harvesting, provides a very high employment rate in coastal, island and outermost regions, thus contributing to a socially and environmentally sustainable form of high-potential fisheries.
it is also important to exploit the potential of assessment and coastal and littoral areas, which can be of great benefit for sustainable development, employment, energy autonomy and innovation.
ships from such countries often have lower standards of environmental protection, safety, and compliance with international obligations, and thus an economic advantage over european ships.
however, i believe that it is necessary to insist on sustainable fishing practices in order to strengthen environmental protection and social standards and to strengthen the role of the european union on the international scene as a promoter of sustainable management of marine resources.
the strict implementation of common rules leading to improvements in economic, social and environmental sustainability contributes to a better position of the union on the market.
the eu must adopt and promote the highest environmental and social standards in its external fisheries-related activities (fishing, processing and marketing) and implement strict and effective control and surveillance measures, while ensuring transparency in all its activities.
i stress the importance of ensuring that fisheries policy, environmental policy, trade policy and development cooperation are in line.
i believe that consumers should be made aware of the economic, social and environmental conditions that prevail when fish are caught and processed.
i think it is necessary to include a chapter on the external dimension of fisheries policy in the recent reform of the cfp regulation which will formally regulate partnership agreements in sustainable fisheries and fisheries under the auspices of regional fisheries management organisations.
the eu should also promote dialogue with partner countries through sustainable fisheries partnership agreements to establish a regulatory framework to ensure that joint ventures in the fisheries, fish processing and marketing sectors, concluded with partners from the eu or other countries, do not compete with the local artisanal sector and contribute to the achievement of the development objectives of the country concerned and operate on a transparent basis.
the development of the fishing fleet of third countries and the coordination of fisheries policy, trade policy, environmental policy and development cooperation are of great importance.
the commission has also concluded that the fishing opportunities available to the union are limited to the minimum necessary to ensure the sustainable exploitation of the stocks concerned.
i support this report and believe that the external dimension of the common fisheries policy is important to raise social and environmental standards, both in the european union and in the partner countries.
in order to reduce overexploitation, it is essential to cooperate with third countries whose development of fishing fleets contributes to raising social and environmental standards.
i support this report because i believe that environmental standards must also apply to the external fisheries of the european union.
‒ i supported the report on common rules for the application of the external dimension of the common fisheries policy, including fisheries agreements, as it insists on the promotion of ecologically, socially and economically sustainable fisheries based on transparency and the participation of non-governmental stakeholders, in particular fisheries professionals.
i believe that the european union, in its external fisheries-related activities, must promote its highest environmental and social standards and implement strict and effective control and surveillance measures.
i would also stress the importance of coordination between fisheries policy, environmental policy, trade policy and development cooperation policy.
i believe that the european union will promote measures that work for all to ensure the coherence between industrial and small-scale coastal fishing fleets, but also to avoid agreements on sustainable fisheries with countries that tolerate corruption.
the commission has also received a letter from the latvian authorities on the implementation of the 'special measures' in the field of the environment and sustainable development.
‒ since 1999, when he obtained his master's degree, he has been building up professional experience in public finance, economics, fiscal policy and financial management in the latvian public administration (ministry of finance) as well as in the international environment in brussels (latvia's permanent representation to the eu) and london (european bank for reconstruction and development).
the commission has also concluded that the use of glyphosate in the food industry is not a risk to human health and the environment, and that the use of glyphosate in food production is not a risk to human health and the environment.
the commission has also concluded that the use of glyphosate in food is not a risk to human health and that the risk to the environment is not a risk to human health.
a number of member states have already taken precautionary measures to protect public health and the environment.
the impact of glyphosate on the environment and on human and animal health is also unquestionable.
the european parliament considers that the draft commission implementing regulation does not apply the precautionary principle and does not provide a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment.
although the two organizations mentioned have opposing views, i believe that there should be a high level of protection, both for human and animal health and the environment, and i voted to not renew the approval of glyphosate.
‒ i support this report which recognises the eu as a genuine international actor capable of shaping events and being a leader in a changing environment.
the eu must be more active in its environment and be able to prevent and manage crises and conflicts that threaten the security of every eu citizen.
‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the eu in a changing global environment a more connected, conflicted and complex world because i believe that the eu should be strengthened as a foreign policy actor above all.
energy security will play a major role in the internal development of the european union, while its continued prosperity will depend on its ability to be innovative and competitive.
i believe that the achievement of the sustainable development goals, in particular those promoting good governance, human rights, democracy and justice, combating poverty, reducing inequality and social exclusion, addressing unemployment and removing obstacles to sustainable economic growth for the benefit of all citizens, and improving health and education, contributes to addressing the root causes of the current migration challenges.
the european union must urgently take all necessary measures against strategic environmental destruction and its long-term consequences.
i regret that there is still no regulatory framework for corporations to respect human rights and obligations in relation to social and environmental standards, allowing certain states and companies to circumvent them with impunity.
i support the report on the european union in a changing global environment.
over the past decade, the challenges have been very similar: from the threat of terrorism to the climate change that has affected europe.
‒ in such a volatile and uncertain environment, the european union needs to have a strategic autonomy that will allow it to secure and promote its own interests and values, and i believe that the security of the people must be at the heart of the european union's global strategy.
however, the report on the european union in a changing global environment a more connected, conflicted and complex world calls on the institutions of the european union and the member states to take a comprehensive, common and holistic approach in their external action in order to eventually lead to a common defence policy.
‒ i support this report which supports the eu countries' additional engagement with the countries of central asia, where security and energy interests are important.
central asia is important both from a security and energy perspective for diversification and ensuring the eu's energy security.
‒ the eu has recognised the democratic deficit and human rights violations in some central asian countries and wants to make greater efforts to correct them, prioritising the possibilities of action on smaller central asian countries, increasing partnerships and energy cooperation.
the european union stated in its 2007 strategy that it is committed to making central asia a prosperous, peaceful, democratic, stable and inclusive region, and to functioning as an economically and environmentally sustainable region.
the current strategic approach to building relations with the countries of central asia has proved only partially sustainable and successful, as the european union has failed to make a relevant contribution to addressing the severe socioeconomic and environmental problems and to the modernisation of central asian societies.
the digital environment is constantly circulating, collecting, storing and recording information that is also personal.
the fact is that the process of change in the social and economic environment through the use of digital technology is much faster than the legislative adaptations that regulate the new possible forms of abuse.
the new regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing directive 95/46/ec (general data protection regulation) provides an excellent basis for the protection of personal data and personal identity in the digital environment.
the new regulation creates an enabling environment for the development of the economy and the digital society in the future.
there is also a lack of a number of strategies at the state level which prevents bosnia and herzegovina from starting to use serious funds to build energy and transport infrastructure.
finally, i thank my colleague mr predi for accepting my amendments, in particular the one calling on the authorities of bosnia and herzegovina to eliminate the problem of crossborder air pollution caused by the operation of the refinery in bosanski brod.
i consider particularly important the problem of energy poverty, which is present in all member states and is particularly pronounced in south-east europe.
the commission should be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection of natural resources, including the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection of natural resources.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states.
i support the initiative addressed to the commission to define precisely the definition of energy poverty in order to define and implement a common european policy as quickly and easily as possible.
we know that we have consequences from the past, that their current pensions are too small to pay their energy bills, but also their other bills.
the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a european energy charter.
the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection of the union's forests, in particular by taking into account the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment.
the fact is that the process of legislating is much slower than the changes that take place in the social and economic environment through the application of digital technology.
today's global environment, with travel becoming easier and cheaper, and communication becoming faster, also allows for the easy mobility of terrorism and serious crime.
the protection of trade secrets against their unlawful acquisition, use or disclosure is key to operating in a dynamic business environment for all companies and research institutions.
i supported this report because it defines the appropriate level of protection and the importance of trade secrets in a business environment.
improving the conditions for innovative business activities is necessary, and the commission has therefore committed itself, within the framework of the wider europe 2020 strategy, to creating an innovation union by protecting investment in fundamental knowledge and creating an innovation-friendly environment in europe.
i believe that budgetary forecasts should be transparent, in line with political priorities and focused on realistic and sustainable planning.
‒ the report and the 2017 budget itself are characterised by the continuation and strengthening of the institution's policy of increasing efficiency wherever possible, without reducing the quality of the working environment of members and staff.
‒ the 2017 budget should be characterised by the continuation and strengthening of the institution's policy of increasing efficiency without reducing the quality of the working environment of members and staff.
turkey, as a potential partner, has a key role to play in the fields of energy, trade and certain industrial products.
i am in favour of structured and more frequent and open political dialogue at high level on key thematic issues of common interest such as migration, the fight against terrorism, energy, the economy and trade.
cooperation and negotiations need to be improved because of turkey's vital role for the eu, especially in the economy and energy.
on the other hand, there are problems of corruption, organised crime, poor environmental care, an underdeveloped market economy, interference with the editorial autonomy of the media and widespread self-censorship.
i welcome the adoption of the national anti-corruption strategy for the period 2015 to 2020. i am pleased that the report for the first time includes the amendment i tabled, which relates to the problem of waste management, in particular marine litter.
given that there is a political consensus in albania on the european union accession process that enjoys broad public support, the relationship between the european union and albania contains a constructive dialogue that is essential for a successful and sustainable reform process.
i am particularly pleased that the final text of the resolution includes the text of the amendment which i proposed during the debate in the european parliament's foreign affairs committee on the need for a harmonised legal framework for environmental protection and action against climate change, including cross-border pollution caused by the operation of the oil refinery in bosanski brod.
more financial controls, processing of the 2013 population census, improvement of conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises, agriculture, energy, climate change policy and in the field of information and media are needed.
i also believe that it is particularly important to insist on the involvement of various actors and measures in this process in order to act in a coordinated way in the fight against poverty and in the achievement of energy efficiency and renewable energy targets.
‒ i supported the report on the achievement of the poverty reduction target in the light of the rising cost to households, as it brings about certain changes in the currently unsustainable energy waste system and is oriented towards investments in sustainable energy sources and energy efficiency which will result in improving living conditions and reducing household costs and stimulating investment at regional and local level.
between 2008 and 2013, the number of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion in the eu27 has been steadily increasing and prices in the european energy market are converging, although purchasing power is not growing at the same pace.
the 2012 energy efficiency directive calls on member states to develop programmes to raise awareness of energy efficiency.
the report stresses that member states must adopt integrated frameworks to combat energy poverty, accept a european moratorium on winter heating, and target the use of european structural and investment funds at national, regional and local level.
the report also proposes to use tax revenues from industrial energy consumers for measures to help low-income households, including measures aimed at energy efficiency and financing social security systems, which can lead to a lower burden on labour costs.
a breakthrough would bring about advances in energy conservation and reduce the number of people at risk of poverty.
in the new global challenges, such as climate change, the private sector can play a key role as private actors can bring expertise, innovation and efficiency to policy development.
the eu should play a leading role in the world in the fight against poverty and sustainable development, and the role of the private sector is increasingly important in the face of cuts in support budgets.
i support the steps outlined in the report that need to be taken to make the private sector a sustainable partner in development policy.
it is responsible for achieving long-term sustainable development.
but sustainable development cannot be achieved when there are administrative barriers and regulations, as in the case of developing countries.
the creation of a favourable business environment free of unnecessary administrative and regulatory barriers is key to allow smes to enter the so-called formal sector of the economy, thereby stimulating further private sector growth.
the establishment of public-private partnerships facilitates the response to macroeconomic challenges and risks, political risks and achieves sustainable development.
however, a number of other issues such as social, ethical, environmental and technological issues and security issues in terms of data protection are open.
the european investment bank (eib) will support the development of the european union's railway infrastructure and the modernisation of its railway network, which will contribute to the creation of new green jobs and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from transport.
the legal orderly functioning of the convention is also necessary for the sustainable functioning of the customs administration at international level.
whether fostering or adopting children, they need to be provided with accommodation that offers the best opportunities for them to maintain a connection with their cultural environment and to learn and use their mother tongue.
the text emphasises that children, irrespective of the form of the fostering or adoption arrangement, should be provided with accommodation that offers them the best opportunities to maintain a connection with their cultural environment and to learn and use their mother tongue.
however, obstacles to competition, discrimination, the lack of a liberal and dynamic business-friendly environment and the problem of a large number of different national regulations with non-transparent procedures and standards remain.
the cases of manipulation of reference interest rates, such as libor and euribor, and alleged manipulation of reference values in the energy and foreign exchange sectors call in particular for the adoption of this regulation and i have therefore supported its adoption and this report.
i welcome the more stable legal arrangement offered under the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement with third countries, which should ensure that union fishing activities in third country waters are based on the best available scientific advice and the exchange of relevant information, ensuring the sustainable exploitation of marine biological resources and transparency in the determination of surpluses.
‒ the cotonou agreement sets as a central objective in the union's relations with third countries the reduction and ultimate eradication of poverty in line with the objectives of sustainable development and the progressive integration of developing countries into the world economy.
farmers, consumers, environmental associations, family associations, ngos, etc.).
the budgetary and financial management has proven to be sustainable and in line with the principles of sound planning and balance.
i also call on the eeas to develop expertise in the areas of global warming and energy security.
to maintain the quality and success of this important function, it is crucial to ensure sustainable and efficient funding and i am therefore pleased that the court of auditors commends the ombudsman's financial management.
‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2014 because the budget implementation rate is 95% and no major deficiencies have been identified in the financial operations of the agency.
‒ the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators was established in 2011 as part of the third energy package and is based in ljubljana.
the aim is to create a sustainable, secure, transparent and competitive internal energy market for all citizens of the european union.
the audit established the reliability of all the agency's accounting documents and demonstrated the correctness and lawfulness of the agency's operations within the financial period 2014. i supported the report and the resolution of parliament dissolving the books of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators.
‒ the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators supports the creation of common rules and initiatives, looks after the development and maintenance of energy infrastructure and monitors the energy market.
it is an institution whose objective is to create a competitive, sustainable, secure and transparent internal energy market for the benefit of all consumers in the eu.
the agency shall be responsible for the implementation of the agency's activities in the field of energy efficiency.
in preparing the numerous instruments for the establishment of the common energy market, the agency cooperates with the eu institutions and their stakeholders, as well as with national regulatory authorities.
in view of the findings of the court of auditors and the importance of the agency's work, i supported the discharge for the implementation of the agency's budget for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2014.
written.
‒ the third energy package, which established the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators, aims to provide an effective regulatory framework for the development of an open and competitive energy market within the union.
at the opening of the agency, energy commissioner günther oettinger stated that his priority was to remove all barriers to the internal energy market so that energy could flow freely throughout the union.
‒ the aim of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) is to create a competitive, sustainable, secure and transparent internal energy market for the benefit of all eu consumers.
the agency's main task is to assist national energy regulators in carrying out their tasks at eu level and to coordinate their activities.
in the light of the above, i support the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2014.
written.
‒ according to the 2014 financial reports of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators, its final budget was eur 10 880 000, a decrease of 8,80% compared to 2013. in any event, as regards the measures taken on the basis of the recommendations contained in the 2013 discharge, the two observations of the court of auditors are now marked 'completed'.
the european parliament shall, in its report, give a discharge to the director of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget.
in addition, it determines that the final annual financial statements of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators shall conform to the format annexed to the court of auditors' report.
‒ i did not support the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2014. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by the european data protection supervisor.
the purpose of the agency is to implement eu-level legislation on chemicals that contributes to better human health, the environment, innovation and the competitiveness of the european union.
the european chemicals agency (echa) is responsible for ensuring the consistent implementation of european chemicals legislation, taking into account human health and environmental protection, and promoting innovation and competitiveness.
in view of the above, i support the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2014 and consider that by developing innovation, echa contributes to human health and environmental protection as well as to competitiveness in europe.
‒ the european chemicals agency (echa) ensures that information on the hazards and safe use of chemicals is available to all in order to ensure the highest level of protection for people and the environment.
the european chemicals agency (echa) is a european agency for the environment, public health and food safety (echa) established in 2005 to promote the scientific, technical and scientific advancement of the chemicals industry.
‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2014, as the budget implementation rate was 99,19% and the budget and financial management proved to be successful.
‒ the european environment agency (eea) works to promote sustainable development and the preservation of the natural environment in the european union, and provides key information to policy makers.
the agency has the role of an analyst and assistant, informing all member states in an in-depth manner on how to protect the environment and which regulations to implement.
‒ the european environment agency is a key source of information for all actors involved in the development, adoption, implementation and evaluation of environmental policy, as well as for the general public.
the eea's mission is to help the community and the member states make informed decisions on improving the environment, integrating environmental issues into economic policies and moving towards sustainability, and to coordinate the european environment information and observation network.
in view of the findings and the importance of the agency's work, and bearing in mind that the agency's data are important users, alongside european and national authorities and the business community, academia, non-governmental organisations and other parts of civil society, i supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2014.
‒ the european environment agency aims to ensure quality and independent environmental information.
it is a key source of information for all actors, including the general public, involved in the development, adoption, implementation and evaluation of environmental policy.
the agency assists the community and the member states in making informed decisions on improving the environment by integrating environmental issues into economic policies and by coordinating the european environment information and observation network.
i support the discharge given by the european parliament to the executive director of the european environment agency in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. the final budget of the agency for the financial year 2012 amounts to eur 52 573 071, an increase of 6,70% compared to 2013. i point out the deficiencies identified in the court of auditors' report in the agency's ex ante and ex post verifications and call on the agency to improve its operations in line with the court of auditors' report.
‒ the european environment agency (eea) works to promote sustainable development and progress in protecting europe's environment by providing relevant and reliable information to policy-makers and decision-makers, and to the general public.
in view of the above, i support the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2014. it is of particular importance that the agency applies strictly the measures relating to discretion and exclusion in relation to public procurement, that it always carries out thorough ex ante controls and that it applies exclusion criteria to exclude undertakings in the event of any conflict of interest, which is crucial for the protection of the union's financial interests.
‒ the european environment agency provides high-quality and independent environmental information and serves as a source of information for all actors involved in the development, adoption, implementation and evaluation of environmental policy, as well as for the general public.
in this way, the agency helps the eu and the member states make informed decisions on improving the environment, while integrating environmental issues into economic policies and moving towards sustainability.
i support the report by mr vaughan on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors, in its report on the agency's annual accounts for the year 2014, confirmed that the accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
‒ i voted against the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency (eea) for the financial year 2014. the agency should start to apply more strictly the measures relating to discretion and exclusion in public procurement, carry out thorough prior checks and apply exclusion criteria to exclude companies in the event of any conflict of interest, which is crucial for the protection of the financial interests of the union, this should be a priority for all of us.
‒ the european fisheries control agency (efca) was established to strengthen control and surveillance of the implementation of the common fisheries policy (cfp) in order to preserve the sustainable use of fisheries resources.
the agency is essential for operational cooperation between member states, for a level playing field in the fishing industry and for sustainable fisheries.
‒ the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) was established in 2008 on the initiative of the european commission as an autonomous eu body to promote world-class innovation, sustainable growth and enhance eu competitiveness through the integration of the european innovation area.
‒ having regard to article 319 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and the report of the committee on budgetary control, the european parliament has given a discharge to the director of the european institute of innovation and technology in respect of the implementation of the institute's budget for the financial year 2014. it concluded that the final annual accounts of the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) were in accordance with the format set out in the annex to the court of auditors' report and approved the closure of the eit's accounts for the financial year 2014. i note with concern that the court of auditors' report states that, although kics should develop strategies for financial sustainability, they are still, to this day, in their fifth year of existence, totally dependent on the financial resources of the institute and its partners.
‒ the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) helps businesses and education and research bodies work together to create a stimulating environment for innovation and entrepreneurship in europe.
‒ the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) promotes innovation in the countries of the european union and helps businesses and educational and research bodies to jointly create an enabling environment for innovation and entrepreneurship in europe.
having regard to article 319 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and in the light of the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, the european parliament has given a discharge to the executive director of the european medicines agency in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. it concluded that the final annual accounts of the european medicines agency were in accordance with the format set out in the annex to the court of auditors' report and it authorised the closure of the accounts of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2014. i note that the budget monitoring efforts during the financial year 2014 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 94,32%.
‒ the european maritime safety agency (emsa) provides technical assistance and support to the union and the member states in the development and implementation of eu legislation on maritime safety and security and pollution related to shipping.
emsa carries out technical inspections, provides maritime information services and responds to marine pollution.
‒ the european maritime safety agency (emsa) provides technical assistance and support to the european union and the member states in the development and implementation of eu legislation on maritime safety and security and pollution related to shipping.
‒ the european maritime safety agency (emsa) provides technical assistance and support to the member states and the eu in the development and implementation of union legislation on maritime safety and security and pollution related to shipping.
the court of auditors finds that the agency has adopted internal policies to improve the cost-effectiveness and environmental integrity of its equipment and has taken an important step towards meeting both requirements, adopting a 'paperless' platform for work tracking and internal document storage, and notes with satisfaction that the agency has abolished almost all forms of paper tracking.
‒ i condemn the fact that the use of two sites for the performance of its activities exposes the european railway agency to additional costs and unnecessary waste of european taxpayers' money, which is unacceptable and we should all put pressure on all agencies to solve this problem, while avoiding indirect costs such as 'lost' working hours due to travel or additional administrative work.
i welcome the active cooperation between the agency and the relevant member states' authorities and commend the agency's work on the development of an online interactive risk assessment tool and its work in the healthy workplaces campaign to better prevent risks and promote sustainable and healthy workplaces.
i also welcome the active cooperation between the agency and the relevant member states' authorities, as well as the agency's work on the development of an online interactive risk assessment tool and its work in the healthy workplaces campaign to better prevent risks and promote sustainable and healthy workplaces.
i believe that europe should build its future on renewable and sustainable energy sources, which nuclear energy is not.
the euratom supply agency (esa) was established with the aim of ensuring a regular and unbiased supply of nuclear fuel to european users and focuses on strengthening the security of supply and sustainability of the nuclear industry in the union.
the objective of its establishment was to increase the competitiveness and sustainability of the union.
the objective of its establishment was to increase the competitiveness and sustainability of the union.
‒ the clean sky joint undertaking is tasked with achieving environmental objectives through further integration of advanced technologies into aircraft and demonstration of innovative aircraft configurations that enable changes in environmental and economic performance.
i believe that all companies and all segments of the eu budget should be transparent and sustainable, which is why i voted to delay the discharge for this company.
‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2014 postponing the discharge decision.
on the basis of the court of auditors' report, i supported the deferral of the discharge to the director of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014.
‒ the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy is an international undertaking involving, in addition to the member states of the european union, significant economic powers such as the united states, india, japan, russia and china.
in view of the above, i could not support the discharge for the financial year 2014 of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy until additional information on the proper implementation of the project and the proper use of the financial resources, not only of the european component but also of the resources of the other states participating in the joint project, had been collected.
‒ the european parliament, having regard to the final annual accounts of the iter joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 and to the report of the committee on budgetary control, deferred its decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 to the director of the iter joint undertaking for the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. taking into account the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the iter joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, and article 319 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, it also deferred the closure of the accounts of the iter joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. i therefore support the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2014.
written.
‒ the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy was established in march 2007 for a period of 35 years.
following the above, the european parliament postponed its decision on the discharge of the director of the iter and fusion energy joint undertaking for the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014, and for the closure of the accounts of the iter and fusion energy joint undertaking for the financial year 2014.
‒ the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy was established in march 2007 for a period of 35 years.
the european parliament therefore postpones its decision on the discharge to the director of the iter and fusion energy joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014. furthermore, it postpones the closure of the accounts of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2014. i support this report wholeheartedly.
in accordance with the above, i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2014.
written.
‒ the eib's main tasks are to promote european policy beyond borders, to provide positive impulses to boost economic growth and employment in the union and to support measures relating to climate change mitigation.
the commission will continue to support the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and sustainable development.
the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the union's policies on the environment and climate change, including on the impact of the union's policies on the environment and climate change, and on the impact of the union's policies on the environment and climate change.
‒ the european investment bank aims to promote youth employment, improve environmental sustainability and climate policy, and promote economic and social cohesion and convergence.
it is necessary to continue to finance and encourage projects aimed at creating new jobs and preserving existing ones, encouraging small and medium-sized enterprises, encouraging innovation, encouraging climate-friendly projects, encouraging cohesion projects, financing projects in third countries in order to support sustainable development worldwide.
to this end, it is necessary to create the conditions for an innovative and competitive ict environment, facilitate the availability of microfinance for women entrepreneurs and improve financial opportunities for smes.
in order to restore citizens' trust in the institutions and ensure the sustainable development of europe while preserving our specificities, it is of the utmost importance to give local people the opportunity to participate directly in shaping the future of their communities, and i hope that most colleagues and the commission will recognise this.
i will continue to monitor the implementation of these development tools in the member states and to help the lags in croatia because this approach to local community development is a real guarantee of a sustainable future in line with the wishes of our citizens.
due to their specificities, in particular the numerous and diverse renewable energy sources and their dependence on resource efficiency and energy efficiency, mountain regions can contribute to the development of new technologies and innovation in general.
these regions need help to overcome challenges such as climate change, economic development, employment, environmental protection and other similar challenges.
madam president, i'm glad that we gave a big and complex no to the nord stream 2 project tonight, because our goal is not to help diversify the supply routes from russia, but to diversify the energy sources in europe and reduce our dependence on imports.
energy dependence is very easily transformed into economic dependence, economic dependence into social dependence, and so the europe we want to make the leader and the driver of development, with the nord stream 2 project, we are pushing it in the other direction.
i would like to highlight something else: the european commission has identified 195 key energy infrastructure projects.
these are projects that we will contribute to the achievement of the strategic objectives of the energy union, and with this nord stream 2 project we are also questioning the value and implementation of these energy projects, the preparation of which we have already started financing from the cef.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1272/2008 on the common organisation of the market in bananas (oj l 347, 20.12.2018, p. i therefore call on the european commission to define specific programmes in existing eu funds programmes that would facilitate and enable better energy efficiency, which means simplifying the procedure for using these funds and also an information campaign that would enable people living in these areas to know more and use these funds more easily so that energy efficiency in these areas is also high enough and thus allows people to live better.
‒ i support this first eu-liberia sustainable fisheries partnership agreement, which will strengthen cooperation and contribute to liberia's recovery after the extremely difficult years of conflict and civil war.
‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of liberia and the implementation protocol thereto, as it is consistent with the objectives of the common fisheries policy and thus promotes the sustainable management of fisheries and aquaculture.
the agreement also contributes to the fight against unreported, illegal and unregulated fishing, which is one of the objectives of the union, while at the same time supporting economically sustainable fisheries.
‒ the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement with liberia and the eu provides financial and technical support to the eu in exchange for fishing rights for a wide range of fish stocks in liberia's exclusive economic zone.
the new protocol enhances cooperation between the eu and the republic of liberia to promote the development of a sustainable fisheries policy.
‒ this sustainable fisheries partnership agreement is the first that the european union will conclude with the republic of liberia, which has 570 kilometres of coastline along the atlantic ocean.
given that the eu and liberia have been cooperating for many years through multilateral agreements and that the liberian authorities are cooperating intensively with the eu in the fight against iuu fishing, i believe that the eu-liberia sustainable fisheries partnership agreement will be beneficial for both parties.
in recent years, the european union has signed several sustainable fisheries partnership agreements and protocols with 'third countries'.
since 2014, and the reform of the common fisheries policy, these agreements have been referred to as sustainable fisheries partnership agreements.
this sustainable fisheries partnership agreement is the first that the european union will conclude with the republic of liberia, which has 570 kilometres of coastline along the atlantic ocean.
i agree with the opinion of the rapporteur, mr jarosław wałęsa, and consider that the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement with liberia and its implementation protocol are in line with the objectives of the common fisheries policy, sustainable fisheries management and aquaculture activities and of great mutual benefit to both parties.
given that the objectives of the liberian fisheries policy are consistent with the objectives of the eu fisheries policy and that liberia is demonstrating a clear willingness to respect the recommendation of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas, i support the recommendation of mr wałęsa to give its consent to the conclusion of the agreement and its implementation protocol to the said sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and liberia.
‒ i supported the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of liberia and the implementation protocol to that agreement, as i consider that the main objective of liberia's fisheries policy is in line with the objectives of the eu common fisheries policy.
the eu has a strong interest in tuna fishing in liberian waters and the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement with liberia would contribute to enhancing monitoring, control and surveillance and better fisheries management in the region.
the committee on budgets is of the opinion that the protocol enhances cooperation between the eu and the republic of liberia to promote the development of a sustainable fisheries policy.
‒ in recent years, the european union has signed several sustainable fisheries partnership agreements and protocols with third countries.
in the light of the above, i support this report as the conclusion of a sustainable fisheries partnership agreement with liberia would, inter alia, help the eu to achieve its objectives in the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing and to extend the objectives of the common fisheries policy in the area of sustainable fisheries management and aquaculture activities.
‒ this sustainable fisheries partnership agreement is the first that the european union will conclude with the republic of liberia, which has 570 kilometres of coastline along the atlantic ocean.
i support the draft resolution because i believe that the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement with liberia is in line with the objectives of the common fisheries policy, sustainable fisheries management and aquaculture activities and of great mutual benefit to both parties.
i consider that the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement with liberia promotes a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the liberian fishing zone.
i believe that the conclusion of the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement with liberia will help the european union to achieve its objectives in terms of combating illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, but also to extend the objectives of the common fisheries policy in terms of sustainable management of fisheries and aquaculture activities.
the commission has also taken steps to ensure that the rules on the protection of the marine environment are respected.
in addition to the eur 55 million earned by mauritania by granting access to its fishing zone to the eu fishing fleet, this agreement provides for an additional eur 16,5 million in financial support to promote the sustainable development of the fisheries sector and environmental protection in mauritania's marine and coastal protected areas, in line with european policies of environmental responsibility and sustainable fisheries development.
i support the conclusion of this protocol because i believe it will contribute to the export of the eu model of environmental, economic and social sustainability that the eu promotes in its common fisheries policy.
the union and mauritania shall cooperate in the implementation of this decision, in particular by developing a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries strategy and the responsible exploitation of fishery resources in mauritania's fishing zone, in the interest of both parties.
the sectoral support was increased compared to the previous period in order to assist mauritania in setting up a new national strategy in the field of sustainable development of fishing activities, in particular in the context of scientific and technical cooperation, training, fisheries control, environmental protection and infrastructure development.
the reinforcement of support for local mauritanian fisheries demonstrates the european union's determination to help develop the fleets of the countries with which it has agreements and its desire to export the model of environmental, economic and social sustainability advocated in its fisheries policy.
taking into account the recommendation of the committee on industry, research and energy, i support this draft legislative resolution of the european parliament enhancing cooperation with the republic of korea.
‒ the report focuses on new, innovative instruments in cohesion policies that can make a significant contribution to achieving economic, social and territorial cohesion, creating quality local jobs, sustainable development and achieving the europe 2020 objectives.
‒ community-led local development and integrated territorial investment are innovative tools that some member states will be implementing for the first time in the form proposed and which can make a significant contribution to achieving economic, social and territorial cohesion, the creation of quality local jobs, sustainable development and the objectives of european strategies, all of which i warmly welcome.
‒ i supported the report on new tools for territorial development in cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020: integrated territorial investment (iti) and community-led local development (clld), as iti and clld, as innovative tools in cohesion policy, can make a significant contribution to achieving economic, social and territorial cohesion, sustainable development, local job creation and the europe 2020 objectives.
mountain regions have rarely been the focus of cohesion policy, and the natural resources and assets of these areas can contribute and provide jobs to improve employment within the eu, especially in the area of green jobs that contribute to the fight against climate change.
mountain regions offer the opportunity to achieve eu objectives in the fields of employment, cohesion and environmental protection through the sustainable management of natural resources.
the natural resources of mountain areas can help create new jobs and increase employment in the eu, in particular green jobs, which can contribute to the fight against climate change.
the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment protection.
i welcome the report's stated aim of promoting employment and economic progress in mountain regions by encouraging the market for eco-products, the labelling of products of mountain origin and the preservation of small, family-owned producers and farmers, and the sustainable development policy it sets out, which i regard as positive because it aims to retain young people, encourage milk production and use renewable energy sources.
i call on the commission to work on an 'eu mountain programme' which should be a framework to contribute to international, cross-border and interregional policies and i believe that this future programme should identify priorities for the development of these regions in order to better align sectoral policies, manage their funding opportunities under eu funds and achieve long-term sustainable inclusion policies.
i stress the importance of achieving synergies between policies, instruments and sectors, which requires an integrated approach, and i highlight the valuable experience gained in implementing the alpine convention, which reconciles economic, social and environmental interests.
although technologically backward and inaccessible, such regions should not be neglected as they offer alternative access to agricultural goods and to environmental issues, economic development and the social dimensions of life.
‒ i supported the report on the cohesion policy in the eu's mountain regions because mountain regions represent around 30% of the european union's territory and contribute to sustainable development, the fight against climate change, the conservation and protection of regional ecosystems and biodiversity, while also offering a wide range of opportunities to achieve the european union's objectives of employment, cohesion and environmental protection through the sustainable use of their natural resources.
the report places a strong emphasis on reducing poverty and social exclusion in mountain areas of the eu, but at the same time it states that it is mountain areas that can contribute to the objectives of the european union, such as europe 2020. mountain areas are under-utilised sources of new green jobs that not only help to employ eu citizens but also to combat climate change.
the report calls for the use of renewable energy sources in mountain areas, but taking into account the environmental impact they can have.
the commission also notes that the measures provided for in this decision are in line with the principles of the union's macro-financial assistance, as set out in the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and the european atomic energy community, and in particular article 108 (3) thereof.
the eu area depends on services linked to mountain ecosystems, which offer a range of opportunities to achieve european objectives in terms of employment, cohesion and environmental protection through the sustainable use of its natural resources.
i support this report because i believe that mountain regions need special attention to help them cope with problems such as climate change, out-of-season unemployment, economic development and the prevention of natural disasters.
the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures taken by member states on the environment and the environment protection.
due to their specificities, in particular the numerous and diverse renewable energy sources and the dependence on resource efficiency and energy efficiency, mountain regions can contribute to the development of new technologies and innovation in general.
i believe that these regions need help to overcome challenges such as climate change, economic development, employment, environmental protection and other similar challenges.
political changes, especially in argentina, have changed that climate and it is now important that we here in the european union indicate our political will to move forward.
so these are the 17 sustainable development goals, and the 2030 agenda is a continuation of the development goals that were adopted in 2000. it certainly speaks to cooperation that is within the international community, and in terms of a moral obligation to create a different future.
in any case, 17 ambitious goals that speak of environmental, social and economic goals, and most importantly implementation.
we've heard the data: 700% inflation, shortage of basic supplies, the worst energy crisis in the history of venezuela, an oil-producing country.
but the problem is not only energy or economic, the problem is fundamentally political; it is the erosion, i would almost say the destruction of democratic institutions by the regime of nicolás maduro.
the term 'commodity traders' covers a wide range of energy and commodity market players, namely all investment firms whose main activity is exclusively the provision of investment services or the performance of activities related to financial instruments under the markets in financial instruments directive.
‒ the term 'commodity trader' covers a wide range of actors in the energy and commodity markets.
equally important is good governance that promotes relevant structural reforms in line with territorial cohesion, sustainable growth, employment objectives and investment-oriented policies.
good governance that promotes relevant structural reforms in line with territorial cohesion, sustainable growth, employment objectives and investment-oriented policies is also essential.
there are obviously some benefits, no doubt, and environmental grounds are legitimate.
member states' tax authorities need comprehensive and relevant information on mne groups in order to be able to react in a timely manner to harmful tax practices through legislative changes or appropriate risk assessments and tax audits and to determine whether companies have engaged in practices that have the effect of fictitiously shifting significant amounts of revenue to a more tax-friendly environment.
member states' tax authorities need comprehensive and relevant information on mne groups in order to be able to react in a timely manner to harmful tax practices through legislative changes or appropriate risk assessments and tax audits and to determine whether companies have engaged in practices that have the effect of fictitiously shifting significant amounts of revenue to a more tax-friendly environment.
it is also necessary to take into account the possible consequences of the partnership on union jobs, industry, the environment, and other affected manufacturing sectors in order to fully safeguard and protect the interests of the eu.
‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the state of play and the way forward with regard to the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals, given the need to modernise the eu's development strategy for the next 15 years and to focus additional efforts on eradicating poverty at international level.
‒ the 2030 agenda for sustainable development should provide a holistic response to the growing global challenges.
it is a new global framework to fight poverty and achieve the 2030 sustainable development goals, and contains a package of 17 targets that are necessary to achieve the purpose of the agenda.
these goals encompass and cover areas such as the fight against poverty, inequality, health, sustainable growth and development, climate change and others.
‒ the 2030 agenda for sustainable development, adopted at the un in 2015, and building on the millennium development goals adopted in 2000, established a global framework to eradicate poverty and achieve sustainable development by 2030. the 2030 agenda includes an ambitious set of 17 sustainable development goals and 169 related targets, mobilising all countries and stakeholders to achieve these goals and influence national policies.
i share the concern that the commission did not publish a communication on the monitoring and evaluation of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development ahead of the high level political forum on sustainable development, which would certainly help align the eu's common positions, especially with the commitment to eradicate poverty, which i personally consider to be one of the priorities.
i supported the resolution on the monitoring and evaluation of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development and i call on the commission to accept the european parliament's requests and to report regularly on the progress made.
‒ the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development strategy represent a renewed moral commitment by the european union to do whatever is necessary to achieve economic development, but economic development that is mindful of its environmental and social implications and strives to eradicate poverty.
i insist that the new sustainable development strategy and its proper implementation be the subject of a wide range of consultations with national parliaments, local authorities and representatives of civil society, etc., in order to hear all the different opinions of relevant actors before the strategy itself is drawn up.
i call on the commission to present concrete proposals for more effective integration of sustainable development policy into the implementation of the 2030 agenda.
‒ the union has adopted a highly ambitious roadmap containing guidelines for poverty eradication, as well as 17 sustainable development goals and 169 intentions to address the world's most complex problems.
‒ a new universal framework for sustainable development requires greater connectivity between the different policy areas and actors of the european union and further coordination, dialogue and joint work at all levels within and between the eu institutions to ensure the integration of all three pillars of sustainable development (environmental, economic and social) into the eu's external and internal policies.
the union's contribution to the financing of the european solidarity corps is estimated at eur 10000000000. the implementation of the sdgs itself involves the significant role of the high-level political forum on sustainable development, which must become the main body for ensuring the monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of the sdgs in order to ensure a coordinated and effective assessment of needs and the adoption of plans and decisions necessary for the implementation of the sdgs.
the review of the state of play and the future actions of the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals is of paramount importance and i therefore support this motion for a resolution.
‒ a new universal framework for sustainable development requires greater connectivity between the different policy areas and actors of the european union and further coordination, dialogue and joint work at all levels within and between the eu institutions to ensure the integration of all three pillars of sustainable development (environmental, economic and social) into the eu's external and internal policies.
the union's contribution to the financing of the european solidarity corps is estimated at eur 100000000000 for the period 2014-2020 and eur 500000000000 for the period 2014-2020. the 2030 agenda redefines cooperation within the international community in terms of the global commitment to create a different future for people and planet through sustainable development.
i also support this proposal because the sustainable development goals are of paramount importance.
‒ the 2030 agenda is a universal agenda that embraces all countries, rich and poor, with the aim of full integration and the economic, social and environmental dimensions of sustainability.
the programme adopted in september 2015 defined cooperation within the international community to achieve the sustainable development goals.
this is the first global agreement to establish a universal, comprehensive agenda that will affect all countries and achieve its goals by achieving balanced development in environmental, economic and social dimensions.
‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution of the european parliament on the application of council directive 2010/18/eu of 8 march 2010 implementing the revised framework agreement on parental leave concluded by businesseurope, ueapme, ceep and etuc and repealing directive 96/34/ec on the grounds that the current legislation in the field in question is not compatible with the current economic and social climate of the union.
the commission should also be able to use the information contained in the annual report to assess the impact of the union's policies on the environment and the environment.
what i think is important for this g7 meeting is that, in addition to the issues that mr timmermans mentioned, when it comes to finding common solutions to both the migration and refugee crisis, we need to see what contribution the european union can make in linking this crisis to the goals of the european union's sustainable development policy and the 2030 agenda.
mr vice-president of the commission, in order to achieve our energy climate targets as we committed to in paris, we must move more boldly towards an energy transition that will increase citizens' participation.
individual and collective action by citizens in the form of energy cooperatives is key, as it contributes to energy democracy.
it sustainably promotes local economic growth and employment and effectively addresses serious social problems such as energy poverty.
the commission should define general guidelines for national energy strategies, and member states should change energy strategies and national action plans by involving citizens and cooperatives and by changing legislative frameworks, support policies and market access.
it seems to me that while there is a heated debate about whether to continue nord stream 2, whether to jeopardize european security, make the eu dependent on russian gas, we are working on this issue and bringing the issue of energy back to the center, to the citizen.
we're putting citizens at the center, and it's really good that we're working on eradicating energy poverty.
i think the term "prosumer", which is derived from "producer" and "consumer", is a very good term that says that citizens need to be aware, they need to become both producers of energy and consumers.
i hope that the aim of this report is to seriously reduce the consumption of other energy sources, to bring the economy into a state of exclusively using renewable energy sources, and i believe that this is the aim of this report and i hope that this is the ideal that we should all strive for together.
in any case, energy policy must be directed towards consumers, not suppliers, and must be transparent.
i hope we can do that after this report, and i think the key is clean and safe energy.
mr president, we finally have the right guidelines for creating a real european energy union.
namely, here we see a clear desire for decentralisation versus centralisation of systems, de-monopolisation versus monopolisation in systems, in member states and also a clear commitment to more renewable energy sources versus fossil fuels.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the energy union guidelines and will continue to monitor the implementation of the energy union guidelines.
the aim is to empower citizens to produce, use, store and trade their own energy, individually or collectively.
citizens must have the right to participate actively in the energy market and the right to consumer choice and consumption management.
the introduction of smart meters would help consumers to reduce their energy costs and improve energy efficiency.
energy poverty is a growing problem in the european union, affecting some 54 million europeans who are unable to heat their homes adequately or to obtain other energy services at an affordable price.
when considering new benefits for energy consumers, and supporting new models that contribute to a greater diversity of energy market participants and thus to foster local economic growth and employment, especially at the local level, we must not forget those on the margins of society and their own livelihoods.
energy poverty is unfortunately a growing problem across the eu, with a study by the european commission showing that 11% of the eu population are unable to heat their homes at affordable prices.
the problem is particularly pronounced in the eastern and southern eu member states, with the highest proportion of the population at risk of energy poverty in romania (40-50%) in 2012 and an estimated 30-40% in croatia.
together with cyprus, latvia, romania and slovenia, 36-48% of the population cannot afford to pay their bills regularly, which speaks volumes about energy availability.
these problems are caused by rising energy prices, low incomes and poor energy efficiency in homes.
the commission will also assess the impact of the new rules on the energy market and the impact of the new rules on the energy market.
this would put an end to the disproportionate and highly unequal situation in europe and would have numerous and varied positive effects for citizens, consumers, producers and the european economic and social environment as a whole.
the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the proposed amendments on the regulatory environment and the regulatory environment, including the impact of the proposed amendments on the regulatory environment and the regulatory environment.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is specialised in providing assistance and support to people who have lost their jobs as a result of structural change and the dynamics of the business environment.
it should be borne in mind that most energy vulnerable citizens are not active in the energy market and therefore social tariffs should not only be enabled but also promoted.
‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on creating new benefits for energy consumers, because it is necessary to enable consumers to become active participants in the energy market as investors, producers and shareholders.
in addition, in addition to ensuring an energy system that functions efficiently and effectively, it is necessary to ensure greater transparency and consumer protection and better access to information related to energy flows.
in this context, it is necessary to encourage the faster development of information and communication technologies, such as mobile applications and online platforms, in order to provide consumers with easier access to reliable information and real-time data on their energy consumption.
this is a significant cost saving, energy efficiency improvement and greenhouse gas emissions reduction, and i therefore support this report.
‒ one of the key objectives of the third energy package is to ensure that the retail energy market is transparent and competitive and that it is beneficial for all consumers.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the energy union's policies and to monitor the implementation of the energy union's policies and actions.
the union's energy policy should be based on the principle of the sustainable development of the energy sector, which is the cornerstone of the union's energy policy.
i supported the report on achieving new benefits for energy consumers to achieve greater progress in the rational use of energy, the development of new energy-technological innovations and better energy management for all consumers.
‒ i welcome the report on the realisation of new benefits for energy consumers.
the common european energy policy is also an important component of the croatian economy.
the eu imports 53% of its energy needs each year and pays more than €1 billion a day for energy imports.
in addition, energy infrastructure is outdated, national policies are not coordinated and the market is not integrated.
the energy union, an ambitious european project, is precisely aimed at providing eu consumers with sustainable, competitive and affordable energy.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the energy union strategy and its implementation in the light of the outcome of the european council in copenhagen in december 2016. so we need to move away from an economy based on fossil fuels and relying on outdated technologies and use the renewable energy and resources we have in a smart way.
i believe that consumers must have a choice between multiple energy suppliers and control over their energy costs, and that socially vulnerable groups of consumers must be protected from energy poverty.
‒ the european parliament stressed that this report focuses exclusively on household energy consumers in the context of the energy transition, and pointed out that the issue of industrial consumers should be considered in a separate framework.
the commission also noted that the union's energy policy was based on the principle of the 'one country, two systems' approach, which was not reflected in the union's energy policy, but rather in the union's energy policy.
the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the energy market, in particular the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection.
i support this motion for a resolution and believe that it is extremely important to establish and define the fundamental right to own energy production and consumption in the context of the revised renewable energy directive.
‒ despite the changes in the energy sector in europe over the past decade, retail channels in the energy market have not made the necessary changes.
the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the participation of third countries in union programmes in the field of energy from renewable sources.
the commission's vision of a new electricity market model aims to provide new benefits for energy consumers, including through better linking of wholesale and retail markets.
by using new technologies, new and innovative energy service companies should enable all energy consumers to participate fully in the energy transition, managing their own consumption through energy efficient solutions that will save money and contribute to the overall reduction of energy consumption.
i supported the report by ms griffin and the proposed steps needed to achieve the eu's objective, because realising the new benefits of the union's energy strategy means putting consumers at the centre of a successful and functioning energy system.
‒ by reducing household energy consumption and respecting the principle of energy efficiency first, i.e.
energy savings, an economy based entirely on renewable sources needs to be established.
i support this report because i believe it is necessary to provide citizens with stable, affordable and efficient energy, and to empower citizens to produce, use and trade their own energy, individually or collectively, and to take measures to save energy.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the energy union strategy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the energy union strategy.
the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the participation of the member states in the energy market.
‒ this report focuses on household energy consumers in the context of the energy transition, while the issue of industrial consumers should be considered in a specific context.
the energy transition is the transition from an energy system based on traditional centralised production to a more flexible, decentralised and energy efficient system based on renewable energy sources.
the ultimate goal of this system is an economy based entirely on renewable energy sources.
such an economy can be achieved by reducing energy consumption, respecting the principle of energy efficiency first and giving priority to energy savings.
in this way, it will also contribute to the eradication of energy poverty.
the parliament considers that the interests of citizens and future generations should be at the heart of the energy union.
i support this report because i believe it is the first step towards providing citizens with stable, cheaper, efficient and sustainable energy, and high-quality and energy-efficient products and services.
i also believe that this report lays the foundations for enabling citizens to produce, use and store their own energy individually or collectively and to become active participants in the energy market.
‒ the report on delivering new benefits for energy consumers supports the plan to increase consumer purchasing power with price comparison tools and information on energy efficiency programmes.
it also requires eu funds to promote energy efficiency, self-renewal and other cost-cutting measures to reduce energy bills for citizens with poor or poor access to energy.
i believe that the commission should take concrete action in the field of promoting responsible consumer behaviour and preventing energy poverty.
i also believe that member states should develop national action plans based on public participation to promote small and medium-sized renewable energy projects and energy cooperatives, and i supported the report on delivering new benefits for energy consumers.
this will create a clear and uniform regulatory environment that enables market development, protects workers and consumers and ensures a favourable environment for existing and new companies on the european market.
‒ the single market is the foundation of european integration, a driver of sustainable growth and job creation, as it enables trade across the union and guarantees a highly competitive social market economy.
in order to realise the full potential of the single market and to promote sustainable growth, internal demand and purchasing power must be strengthened, innovative measures adopted and investments made in the green economy.
‒ the european parliament supports the overall objectives of the commission's single market strategy for goods and services entitled 'improving the single market: more opportunities for people and businesses' and welcomes its actions in key areas that enable the full potential of the single market to be realised for the benefit of consumers, employees and businesses, and in particular start-ups, with a view to increasing sustainable jobs and the growth and development of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes).
‒ the single market has been and remains the foundation of eu integration and the backbone of sustainable development and job creation by enabling trade between member states.
‒ the single market is a driver of sustainable growth and jobs, but also a foundation for european integration as it allows trade across the union.
‒ the single market has been and remains the foundation of european integration and a driver of sustainable growth and job creation, as it enables trade throughout the union and guarantees a highly competitive market economy.
mr president, on a personal example that i lived through in the 1990s, i want to show how open conversation, awareness of the problems of hiv, aids or aids and the fact that they are sick, especially when it was in the 1990s, can certainly become a problem for the environment in which he lives, where his children go to school, because his wife moves around the small town in which this good friend of mine once lived.
he has already stressed, and i will repeat, that indeed our development cooperation, in order to be effective, requires the coordination of all european union policies in the interests of sustainable development.
in any case, the alignment of eu policies with development objectives is a key element, and we all agree, in achieving the new 2030 agenda for sustainable development, and we must not fall into the trap of giving development aid on the one hand and taking it away on the other through other policies.
but that doesn't mean that we should give up on development policy, but that our focus in these development policies and in other policies, both internal and external, should be precisely on fighting corruption, promoting good governance as the basic prerequisites for sustainable and equitable development.
do you think that croatia should be fully involved and participate in all these decisions as a neighbouring country and moreover do you think that the european union should have a common policy when we talk about nuclear energy as a future strategy?
let's preserve biodiversity, what we can preserve of the beauty of agriculture that exists in africa and develop that agriculture on the parameters on which we have successfully developed european agriculture.
eco-migrants will be increasingly affected by climate change, and it is high time that we take concrete steps to stabilize and secure africa.
we are working hard to ensure the financial sustainability of the apf, which is being called on to provide support to an increasing number of peace and security operations.
such practices have serious negative consequences for farmers, such as reduced profits, higher-than-expected costs, overproduction and waste, and financial planning difficulties.
(speech begins silent) agriculture, i'm all for using satellites, for using digital methods, but i'm not all for eating the same, i'm not all for having a situation where our health, our environment is being called into question.
madam president, technological progress is crucial for sustainable agriculture in the european union.
agricultural production based on industrial production principles results in harmful effects on all environmental components and therefore we need new ways of thinking about technological progress by encouraging what reduces input costs and production costs with minimal impact and risks to the environment, health, food safety and biodiversity.
what is particularly important is that the report focuses on the need for sustainable agriculture in the european union.
in view of these challenges and those posed by climate change and the european union’s commitment to meet the cop21 targets, the focus on sustainability is now more important than ever.
in view of the sustainability challenges that food production is facing, precision farming technologies offer many possibilities and we believe that many eip pilot projects under the rural development programme will show the usefulness of precision farming.
on top of that, we now have an interesting pilot project made possible by a budget attributed by the european parliament, on the sustainable use of genetic resources, looking for new market opportunities for certain neglected varieties or breeds.
innovation is needed in the development of techniques and technologies, but also in financing systems and all levels of governance, all to support the food security of europe's population and to help the sustainability of europe's rural areas.
mr president, clear and simple tax rules and the prevention of special tax treatment and out-of-the-box agreements are key to creating a favourable business environment and the smooth functioning of the single market.
we need a single global approach and single solutions, but respecting the specificities of the business environment in the member states.
the automotive industry is a fundamental economic sector for the european union and international regulatory cooperation could help promote a transparent, efficient, competitive economic environment, as well as developing and strengthening the highest level of health and safety protection.
the requirements are aimed at providing greater safety and environmental protection.
i believe that international regulatory cooperation has the potential to enhance and promote greater transparency, greater efficiency and a more competitive economic environment, while at the same time developing and ensuring the highest standards of health and safety protection.
the agreement provides for the establishment of a specialised unit for the protection of the environment in the republic of croatia.
a clear alignment between development policies and sustainable development programmes is needed.
the sustainable development goals should be integrated into the decision-making process at internal and external levels.
it is important to pay attention to trade policy and financial investment, food security, climate change, investments in health, humanitarian aid and other aspects of eu action.
policy coherence for development is a key element in achieving and delivering the new sustainable development agenda and requires a proactive approach based on consensus building.
‒ development policy priority areas include migration and security, trade and finance, food security, health and climate change.
in addition to the priority areas, the report by mr preda stresses the importance of basing eu policies on respect for human rights, the rule of law and the fight against poverty, all in order to achieve the objectives of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development.
in particular, policy coherence for development should be an important element in the eu's contribution to the wider goal of policy coherence for sustainable development, as stated in the council conclusions on the european commission's fifth biennial report.
the 2030 agenda for sustainable development, which establishes a universal and single set of development goals applicable to all, represents a major and new challenge for achieving policy coherence in the interest of development.
‒ policy coherence in the interest of development is a key element for achieving and delivering the new sustainable development agenda.
parliament called for a union-wide debate on policy coherence for development within the 2030 agenda for sustainable development and its new 17 universal and indivisible sustainable development goals for better understanding.
the sustainable development goals (sdgs) concern both developed and developing countries and should be integrated into the decision-making process of the european union at both internal and external levels.
i consider policy coherence to be one of the political and economic priorities of the european union and the 2030 agenda for sustainable development to be an opportunity for poverty eradication and sustainable development.
in particular, the new alliance for food security in africa, launched in 2012 under the auspices of the g8 as a major public-private partnership to boost private investment in agriculture to improve food and nutrition in sub-saharan africa, aims to support poverty reduction efforts, provide food security, assist local and family farms and should become a true instrument of sustainable development and an instrument for providing assistance to sub-saharan africa.
the eu must play a key role in transforming the new alliance into a real instrument, and this requires addressing governance and property rights, promoting sustainable family farming, access to land and security of tenure.
i supported this resolution because helping that part of the world depends not only on money and donations but also on caring for their self-sustaining, inclusive and sustainable economic growth that starts in the agricultural sector.
‒ the new alliance for food security in africa aims to improve food security by helping 50 million people in sub-saharan africa to escape poverty by 2020. given that over the past 30 years in africa, investment in smallholder farming has been neglected and low-income countries have become significantly more dependent on food imports, making them vulnerable to price fluctuations in international markets, i call on governments and donors to suspend or review all policies, projects and advisory activities that directly encourage and facilitate the competition for arable land through highly unfair projects and investments or that indirectly encourage increased pressure on land and natural resources and that can cause serious human rights violations, and i call for support to be provided for policies that protect the needs of smallholder farmers, in particular women, and promote sustainable land use.
i also encourage eu member states to seek to transform the new alliance into an instrument of sustainable development and an instrument to support family farming and local economies in sub-saharan africa, and recall that family farmers and smallholders produce approximately 80% of the world's food and are responsible for more than 60% of employment in sub-saharan africa.
in developing countries, food security depends greatly on the sustainable use of natural resources.
however, it is questionable how much exceptionally large public-private partnerships such as the new alliance can contribute to poverty reduction and food security, as it is the poorest communities that are at risk of taking on the burden of social and environmental risks.
i therefore believe that the european union and its member states should suspend their current support for the new alliance and instead invest in a sustainable model of agriculture to ensure that consumers have quality food at affordable prices, and i abstained.
‒ ifrs standards change in line with dynamic changes in the environment such as uneven economic and financial developments, the volatility of financial markets and institutions.
depending on the environment, standards are also updated or discontinued.
the aim of peace support activities is to contribute to the creation of a stable, secure and more prosperous environment in the long term.
the objective of the mission is to ensure lasting peace, to create a secure, prosperous and stable environment resulting in adequate protection of civilians, respect for fundamental human rights and economic development of the african union countries.
the key to the success of peacekeeping operations in this deteriorating international environment, which significantly affects the natural and operational needs of an operation, is to approach each crisis individually and to offer a comprehensive response.
the objective of the peace support operation is to contribute to the creation of a stable, secure and more prosperous environment in the long term, as good governance, justice, strengthening the rule of law, protection of civilians, respect for human rights and security are essential prerequisites for achieving this objective, with successful reconciliation, reconstruction and economic development programmes contributing to the achievement of self-sustaining peace and prosperity.
‒ given that the creation of a more prosperous, secure and stable environment in the long term, as well as respect for human rights, protection of civilians, strengthening of the rule of law are among the primary objectives of peace support operations, i support this report.
the objective of peace support operations is to contribute to the creation of a stable, secure and more prosperous environment, for which good governance, justice, protection of civilians, respect for human rights are essential preconditions.
i think that other factors, such as political or religious radicalization, displacement, and climate change, need to be considered.
i consider that the objective of peace support operations is to contribute to the creation of a stable, secure and more prosperous environment in the long term, and the basic prerequisites for achieving that objective are good governance, justice, the rule of law, the protection of civilians, respect for human rights and security.
‒ i voted against the european parliament resolution on technical solutions for sustainable agriculture in the eu because, while i support technological progress and a new approach to agriculture, i also believe that we need to be very cautious when it comes to individual agricultural innovations and a progressive approach.
i further submit that all necessary precautions should be taken to ensure that health and the environment are not compromised and therefore i cannot support this report.
the eu should become a world leader in agricultural technology, innovation and sustainability.
it is also important to establish a regulatory environment that is more conducive to innovation and ensures that eu rules are not an obstacle.
with land being reduced, the environment degraded, water scarce, energy demands increasing, and new pests emerging, the natural environment is under pressure, and farmers find it increasingly difficult to produce food sustainably.
both of these controversial topics negate the precautionary principle and have been aimed at supporting industrial food production, and agricultural production based on industrial principles results in harmful effects on the components of the environment: on water, air and soil, but also on biodiversity, but also on those who consume such food.
farmers believe that it is becoming increasingly difficult to produce food sustainably, due to various pressures on our environment, including land degradation, ecological loss and environmental degradation.
a crucial part of the solution is technological innovation, in particular agricultural technologies, to make agriculture more productive and sustainable.
i supported the report by ms mcintyre which aims to develop the european agricultural sector through research into new technologies to boost the progress of sustainable agriculture and thus make the sector more attractive for investment.
agricultural technologies have the potential to make agriculture more productive and sustainable.
i support the motion for a resolution because i believe that the european union should become a world leader in agricultural technology, innovation and sustainability.
i also believe that the european union must introduce new technologies in the agricultural sector to make agriculture more sustainable and productive.
‒ rural areas, and agricultural areas in particular, are the most exposed to actual and potential climate change and there is a need to adapt agriculture to changing circumstances by using all available technical solutions.
i believe that precision farming is key to achieving sustainable agriculture in the european union and that it requires the reliability of technology, but also the need for innovation to solve the problem of high development costs.
the key to sustainable agriculture, i see, is better management of natural resources, reduction of fertilizer use, better use of soil and water, management of information systems, and so on.
we also need to focus on food waste, because every year 100 million tonnes of food is thrown away in europe, which i consider to be a huge waste and irresponsibility.
‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on strengthening innovation and economic development in the management of european farms in the future because i believe that new technologies are an important factor for a sustainable and competitive european agriculture in the 21st century.
innovation enables agriculture to be part of the solution to a range of economic and environmental challenges and, in this context, it is crucial to ensure agricultural production that reduces its impact on the environment.
this report addresses the need to strengthen innovation and economic development in sustainable farm management, which can be a solid foundation for economic success and help ensure that all eu citizens have sufficient supplies of quality and safe food.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate action and climate change objectives, including the implementation of the union's climate action and climate change strategy, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate action and climate change strategy.
economic development and sustainable production can be achieved simultaneously through innovation, research and development, new management and business models, which is why i supported this report.
but in all of this, we must not forget the same historical constants - the environment in which we will produce food in the future and the man and his family, who will continue to produce food for themselves and society in the future.
this is where i see the fullness of this report, as it looks to the future without forgetting man, family and environment.
‒ consumers are demanding that stricter and better environmental, nutritional and health standards and values be introduced into food production, while at the same time the agricultural sector must become diverse and innovative in order to provide quality, safe and affordable food for all citizens and guarantee decent and sustainable profits for their producers.
i would remind you that simpler measures and clearer guidelines for the implementation of cap measures could encourage farmers to adopt more sustainable farming practices.
however, i stress the importance of new innovative and affordable solutions for the agricultural sector in terms of increased use of more environmentally friendly methods, goods and resources, which could include new farming and field management methods, but also ways to increase the use of renewable energy and phase out the need for fossil fuels.
i stress the importance of developing strategic investments in the organic farming sector to improve techniques for increasing soil microbiological activity and biodiversity.
‒ soil erosion, and in particular soil degradation, has led to a decline in the internal fertility and productivity of arable land, and the loss of ecosystem functions such as humidification and pollination are the causes of soil erosion phenomena.
the efficiency of ecosystem functions needs to be increased in an innovative way in order to build resilience to climate change.
consumers are already demanding better quality, safer food and better nutritional and health value, which means that agricultural production needs to be increased and improved, while being environmentally sensitive and making greater use of natural processes and ecosystem services.
finally, there is a large area of abandoned agricultural land that is not cultivated in some member states, which needs to be exploited and adapted with the help of technologies and agro-ecological approaches, as they can significantly help agricultural holdings.
‒ the united nations food and agriculture organization (fao) estimates that the increase in the world's population will require a 60% increase in the production of safe, high-quality food by 2050, while conserving resources for future generations and preventing food waste and loss.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate action strategy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate action strategy.
i support the guidelines set out in this report because i believe they will lead to a more productive model of agriculture that is more resource-efficient and makes better use of products that are key to addressing sustainability issues.
according to the un, doubling agricultural productivity by 2030 is needed to achieve the sustainable development goals, while at the same time the agricultural sector will need to adapt to climate change and improve the quality of ecosystems and soils.
i also commend and welcome the target by 2020, which is that 75 per cent of the working population should be employed from 20 to 64, promoting certainly smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in the next ten years and beyond, is also welcome.
i believe that we will take this into account through this programme and to ensure sustainability, more people need to be employed across the union.
the efsi should be used to support the development of the union's energy sector.
the majority of projects (75 per cent) relate to energy, r & d, transport and digital technology and the majority of them are approved for the 5 member states which are also the 5 largest european economies (france, italy, germany, uk and spain) as many as 43 out of 64 projects.
among other things, palau has announced its intention to source 20% of its energy from renewable sources by 2020, and the government has launched the diversification of the economy to reduce its dependence on foreign aid.
the commission has also concluded that the use of α-pvp in the manufacture of the product concerned is not likely to lead to a significant increase in the risk of adverse effects on human health and the environment.
‒ this interim report proposes to find a positive solution in cooperation with the council and the commission, which is in the interest of the union, as it is important to have a harmonised liability regime for environmental damage caused by the transport of dangerous and harmful substances by sea.
the application of this convention and the protocol is also of importance for croatian citizens in the light of the further strengthening of maritime transport in the adriatic, as it ensures adequate, prompt and effective compensation for all affected stakeholders for loss of or damage to property or the environment resulting from accidents related to the transport of dangerous and harmful substances by sea.
‒ the objective of the 2010 convention on hazardous and noxious substances is to ensure accountability and adequate, prompt and effective compensation for loss or damage to persons, property or the environment caused by the transport of dangerous and noxious substances by sea, through a specialised international compensation fund.
i am in favour of ratifying and acceding to the 2010 protocol to the international convention on hazardous and noxious substances, which provides for the application of the 'polluter pays' principle and the 'precautionary principle' in order to take preventive measures in the event of potential damage to the environment, and therefore falls within the policy area of the union and its fundamental environmental principles.
i therefore call on the council to adopt a better decision which does not imply differences in the legal regulation of the different member states, especially since the loss or damage to persons, property or the environment caused by the transport of dangerous and harmful substances by sea often has a cross-border element.
i supported the report by the freedom mp on the creation of a coherent policy to deal with liability and compensation for environmental damage caused by the transport of dangerous and harmful substances by sea.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the ratification and accession to the 2010 protocol to the international convention on hazardous and noxious substances, with the exception of aspects related to judicial cooperation in civil matters, because i consider it extremely important to promote measures at international level to address regional or global environmental problems.
i believe that the european union's environmental policy contributes to the preservation, protection and improvement of the quality of the environment, the protection of human health, and the prudent and rational use of natural resources.
it is in the interest of the union as a whole to have a single liability regime for environmental damage arising from the transport of dangerous and harmful substances and to ensure that sufficient funds are available to compensate victims of such accidents.
‒ voted in favour of the interim report on the draft council decision on the ratification and accession of the member states, in the interest of the european union, to the 2010 protocol to the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea, with regard to aspects related to judicial cooperation in civil matters, as i believe that more efforts are needed to ensure the integrity and effectiveness of the common rules of european union law in the most effective and fair manner and without creating excessive disparities for the victims of pollution (i.e.
there is a need to harmonise eu policy on liability and compensation for environmental damage caused by the transport of dangerous and harmful substances by sea.
this report considers that it is in the interest of the union as a whole to have a harmonised liability regime for environmental damage caused by the transport of dangerous and harmful substances by sea, which can only be achieved if the council and the commission give due consideration to parliament's recommendations.
‒ i invite the council and the commission to consider the following recommendations: (a) to ensure that the uniformity, integrity and effectiveness of the union's common rules will not be adversely affected by the international obligations assumed by ratification of or accession to the convention, in accordance with the established case-law of the court; (b) to give greater attention in this regard to the overlap between the amended brussels i regulation and the convention in the part concerning the procedural rules applicable to claims and actions under the convention before the courts of the states parties; (c) to ensure that the possibility of conflict between the environmental liability directive and the convention is minimised by taking appropriate measures, to ensure that member states ratifying or acceding to the convention will fully respect the exclusion clause contained in article 7 (4) and (5) thereof and that the prohibition of any other ship subject to the convention is not exceeded by a claim made under article 5 of the convention.
i support this report because i believe it is important to create uniform, comprehensive and effective common rules without creating excessive disparities for the victims of pollution (i.e.
‒ the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of the philippines, of the other part, covers, inter alia, issues of current interest such as peace, migration, taxation, environment, energy, nature and technology, maritime and air transport, tourism, culture, money laundering and terrorist financing, and illicit trade.
this partnership and cooperation agreement strengthens cooperation in the fields of migration, taxation, environment, energy, science and technology, maritime and air transport, tourism and culture.
on the other hand, it is important to stress the need for effective implementation and monitoring of human, labour and social rights, as well as effective measures to combat global warming.
it also strengthens cooperation on environmental, tourism, cultural, energy, technology, maritime and air transport issues.
‒ the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of the philippines, of the other part, covers, inter alia, issues of current interest such as peace, migration, taxation, environment, energy, nature and technology, maritime and air transport, tourism, culture, money laundering and terrorist financing, and illicit trade.
the future agreement would also include a comprehensive chapter to ensure that economic relations between the eu and the philippines are accompanied by environmental protection and social development.
the philippines shall continue to improve the investment climate for foreign direct investment and increase transparency of business.
our partnership should not be based on mutual exchange of goods and financial profit, but on mutual cooperation in exchanging ideas that will create a positive living climate for both the philippines and the european union.
i believe that we should continue to provide assistance to the philippines in the event of disasters, that is, in the implementation of effective policies to deal with climate change.
i think the eu should also help the philippines because they are the third developing country most affected by climate change.
‒ the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of the philippines, of the other part, covers, inter alia, issues of current interest such as peace, migration, taxation, environment, energy, nature and technology, maritime and air transport, tourism, culture, money laundering and terrorist financing, and illicit trade.
this supports reforms aimed at balancing the balance of payments and creating the necessary better investment climate.
in addition to the negative consequences of the revolution, tunisia's instability was further caused by the weak international environment and the war in libya.
in view of the geopolitical environment and the social and political situation in which tunisia finds itself, i consider it important for the union to have a reliable partner in north africa and have therefore supported this proposal for a decision.
in 2015, tunisia was hit by terrorist attacks, which left repercussions on primary industries such as tourism and transport, but also disrupted the stabilization of the political environment and the security of the country.
‒ i voted for the report on space capabilities for european security and defence because today the union needs to work on solving its internal and external problems; from climate change, to poverty, migration and security threats.
the current and future space capacities and services will provide member states and the eu as a whole with an increased dual-use and operational capability to implement the common security and defence policy and other eu policies in areas such as external action, border management, maritime security, agriculture, environmental protection, climate policy, energy security, disaster management, humanitarian transport and aid.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation in the member states.
i am convinced that current and future space capabilities and services will provide member states and the union with an increased dual-use operational capability to implement the common security and defence policy and other eu policies in areas such as external action, border management, maritime security, agriculture, environmental protection, climate policy, energy security, disaster management, humanitarian aid and transport.
the security environment is becoming increasingly dangerous and challenging, both inside and outside the union, terrorist attacks and mass killings affect all member states and therefore member states need to respond by adopting common strategies and coordinated contracts.
‒ i support this resolution because it calls for the creation of conditions that should simplify the institutional environment for eu space activities with the aim of enabling greater participation of public and private users.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and the environment protection, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and the environment.
in doing so, it has failed to protect public health, animal health and the environment.
until harmonised criteria are established, member states may adopt national criteria and prohibit harmful substances on their own, and at this stage, the protection of human and animal health and the environment could only be achieved through political action by the european parliament and the member states, as required by regulation (eu) no 528/2012.
this resolution calls on the commission not to interfere with measures taken at national level to protect public health, animal health and the environment and not to initiate investigations or proceedings to establish infringements.
a report by the united nations environment programme (unep) and the world health organization (who) has declared endocrine disruptors to be a global threat.
the problem the european union has with gmos will not go away on its own, nor is the status quo sustainable.
i believe that, above all, consideration should be given to the possible consequences of gmos for human health and the impact of such products on the environment.
the problem the european union has with gmos will not go away on its own, nor is the status quo sustainable.
i believe that, above all, consideration should be given to the possible consequences of gmos for human health and the impact of such products on the environment.
in the event of its spread to the environment through seeds or pollen, gm carnations will not be eradicated by conventional herbicides, but only by the application of more harmful herbicides and even diabetes medicines.
the use of medicinal products for these purposes may lead to uncontrolled spread in the ecosystem.
this can have adverse effects on biodiversity and cause chemical contamination of drinking water.
once it loses its ornamental value, the gmo carnation will become waste that will be disposed of in the environment by composting.
it is important to note that the environmental effects of such a procedure are still unknown.
‒ i supported the objection to the authorisation of the placing on the market of genetically modified carnation (dianthus caryophyllus l., line shd-27531-4) for several reasons, including those related to the protection of biodiversity due to the uncontrolled spread of foot-and-mouth disease.
the draft commission implementing decision concerning the placing on the market of genetically modified carnation does not meet the objective of protecting human health and the environment set out in directive 2001/18/ec of the european parliament and of the council on the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms.
‒ i support this motion for a resolution because i consider that the draft commission implementing decision does not meet the objective of protecting health and the environment and therefore exceeds the implementing powers.
i believe that the creation of a market for sulphonylurea-resistant plants will encourage the global use of this antidiabetic as a herbicide, and the use of a particular drug for a purpose outside the public health area leads to an uncontrolled spread of that drug in the ecosystem that can have a devastating global impact on biodiversity.
the commission has not analysed the environmental impact of the gm carnation, which after losing its ornamental value becomes waste that could be composted under circular economy principles.
i support the motion for a resolution as i consider that the commission's decision does not meet the objective of health and environmental protection set out in directive 2001/18/ec and exceeds the implementing powers set out in that directive and i call on the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decisions.
i believe that human health and the environment should be priorities in the decisions taken by the institutions of the european union.
while i do not agree with the commission's efforts to tackle unemployment by promoting mobility, because this would condemn the less developed member states to ruin in the long term, i believe that we must make it as easy as possible for all those who make environmental change decisions.
and in a broader sense i think you mention exactly why this is so important: the protection of biodiversity and marine ecosystems.
– mr president, the eu is fully committed to the conservation of all cetaceans and is equipped with environmental legislation to pursue this objective.
the use of european funds is particularly problematic in the context of cohesion policy, given the need to simplify the processes of achieving a more open, open, efficient and sustainable administration.
and finally, i would like to mention, yes, energy and industry are very important topics, but also tourism, which was mentioned.
‒ the european rail supply industry is of strategic importance for industrial growth, employment, innovation and the transition to sustainable development.
the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the proposed measures on the environment and on the environment in the member states.
the union's contribution to the union's climate action programme is estimated at eur 750000000. the commission should also be able to use the existing union funding to support the development of the railway sector.
the rail supply industry has great potential for growth, which will result in increased employment and innovation and is the best solution for the transition to sustainable mobility.
the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the transition to rail and other forms of sustainable, electrified transport on the transport sector.
the commission should also be able to use the information provided by the member states to assess the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment in the union.
i therefore take this opportunity to welcome the eu regulatory process for establishing a mandatory certification system for responsible exporters of tin, tantalum and tungsten, their ores and gold originating from conflict-affected areas, and for seeking to break the link between conflict and illicit mineral exploitation, as a key element in ensuring peace, sustainable development and stability.
this would allow heavy fossil fuels to be replaced by liquefied natural gas, which should of course lead to a positive environmental impact.
so there are multiple benefits to using liquefied natural gas and so i expect the adoption of a strategy soon and also the creation of a common energy union, which will lead, of course, to a common european policy on the use of liquefied natural gas.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pleasure to be here today, once again, to take part in this debate on two of the most important pillars of the energy union: energy efficiency and renewable energy.
moreover, addressing them at the same time reflects the important role they both play in meeting the ambitious climate commitments reached at the last paris summit.
and the debate is coming at a very appropriate time, as we are finalising the review of energy efficiency and renewable energy legislation, which will be published in the second half of the year.
i shall start with mr pieper's report on the implementation of the energy efficiency directive.
as you know, we are preparing the revisions of the energy efficiency and energy efficiency in buildings directives.
the purpose is to set energy efficiency targets for 2030 and to ensure that we have the right framework and measures in place to achieve them and, by focusing on buildings in particular, we are giving priority to sectors with the greatest potential for energy savings.
i fully agree with the conclusion of the pieper report on the need to systematically include the principle of energy efficiency first in our energy and climate policies.
but the revision of our energy legislation needs to go far beyond a final objective.
in this connection, let me stress the fact that the review of the energy efficiency directive will address article 7, energy saving obligations.
the recent evaluation showed that member states have taken this policy seriously, have taken the necessary measures and have put in place control and verification systems to achieve the necessary savings by 2020. it is expected that by 2020 this article could contribute to about half of the savings of the energy efficiency directive.
it has been an effective instrument, but we now need to align it with the overall 2030 framework so that it can contribute to the ambitious emission reduction targets set at the european council in october 2014. it will also be important to encourage private investment in our buildings, a sector with enormous savings potential, a sector key not only to achieving our energy efficiency targets, but also to tackling energy poverty, reducing high energy bills and reducing health risks.
the review of the energy efficiency in buildings directive will pay particular attention to these objectives.
of course, this also applies to the revision of the renewable energy directive.
with a share of renewables of 16% of final energy consumption in 2014, the european union and a majority of member states are making good progress towards the 2020 targets.
this has allowed us to cut our fossil fuel imports, reduce emissions and develop a competitive renewable energy industry.
that is why we are fully focused on the implementation of the renewable energy directive and i know that this is fundamental for the european parliament.
but as the report rightly points out, we also need to look beyond 2020. the review of the renewable energy directive will be the central pillar of these efforts and will be reinforced by the redesign of the electricity market and the energy union governance initiative.
our ambition is that the revision of the renewables directive, the redesign of the electricity market and the reinforced emissions trading system will be key drivers for new investments in renewables that will help europe become number one in this sector.
in the review of the renewable energy directive we intend to address many of the concerns reflected in its amendments.
for example, how to better harness the potential of renewable energy in the heating and cooling sector and how to incentivise the role of the consumer.
as i have already mentioned, we plan to move towards better market design, which, together with a strengthened emissions trading system, will make it easier for renewable energy generators to get the maximum benefit from the market.
finally, we have seen in this report that the question of the sustainability criteria for bioenergy is of considerable interest.
the commission is working on an enhanced sustainability policy for biofuels and biomass.
biomass is the main source of renewable energy in the european union and we are looking for a pragmatic approach that ensures considerable emission savings, avoids risks of significant environmental impacts and avoids unnecessary administrative burdens, especially for small power plants and small forest owners.
i assure you that in the coming legislative proposals we will be ambitious and ensure that energy efficiency and renewable energy are the key drivers of our paris commitments and our transition towards the decarbonisation of our energy system, and i look forward to working closely with the european parliament to make this noble cause possible.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
the european union and the member states are on track to achieve the binding target of 20% renewable energy in gross final consumption by 2020. the expected progress is being made in the heating and cooling sector, but i am concerned about the lack of progress in the transport sector.
the lack of progress in this area is due to the uncertainty of investments in biofuels production, and i therefore expect the commission to clarify the perspective for advanced biofuels producers with a new legislative proposal on renewable energy sources for the period after 2020. i regret that the final report did not include the environment committee's view on the need to carry out an assessment of the positive role of european forests as a carbon sink and the full potential of this sector in achieving future targets.
i want to emphasise the importance of renewable energy sources as a bright future for the eu's energy independence.
the cost of producing energy from renewable sources is still too high and only continued long-term investment is a prerequisite for achieving the very ambitious targets set.
i would like to draw attention once again to the potential of south-east europe in terms of hydro-energy and biomass.
we need to include this part of europe in all our plans, as it can make a significant contribution to creating an efficient energy mix in the single european energy market.
the country faces a fragile security environment, particularly because of the syrian war, with more than one million refugees out of a population of four million.
the country faces a fragile security environment, particularly because of the syrian war, with more than one million refugees out of a population of four million.
the country faces a fragile security environment, particularly because of the syrian war, with more than one million refugees out of a population of four million.
it is of particular importance that the report stresses the need to protect traditional fishing practices, arguing that their impact on the ecosystem is negligible.
the objective of this proposal is to transpose into union law the measures of the multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean sea adopted by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas at its annual meetings from 2012 to 2014. this regulation lays down the general rules of the tuna recovery plan, while taking into account the specificities of the different gears, with particular attention to traditional and sustainable gears and gears used in small-scale coastal fishing, such as tuna traps.
it is also important because these three species - cod, herring and sprat - in the baltic sea account for over 94% of catches in recent years and there are risks of overfishing and the consequences for the ecosystem of the closure of the baltic.
the management approach of the union should be based on the principle of sustainable exploitation of the stocks, and should be based on the principle of sustainable exploitation of the resources of the union.
‒ the current regulations for managing the baltic sea stocks have covered only cod, and this stock has also been assessed as being disproportionate to the current situation of cod stocks and the fisheries that depend on it, which may undermine the stability of the baltic sea ecosystem.
since herring and mackerel are also present in the baltic sea and are in constant interaction with cod and are therefore an integral part of the baltic sea ecosystem, i consider it important to adopt a regulation recognising the mutual influence of these species and regulating the management of their stocks accordingly and for this reason i voted in favour of adopting a multiannual plan for cod, herring and mackerel stocks in the baltic sea.
the need to maintain ecosystem balance requires proper care and i consider it a good move to include all stocks of the relevant fish species in a single management plan that can ensure a more efficient and balanced exploitation of those stocks and the stability of traditional fisheries, given that the current exploitation rates of cod, herring and sprat stocks are not consistent with achieving the maximum sustainable yield.
the united nations convention of 10 december 1982 on the law of the sea, to which the union is a party, provides for conservation obligations, including the maintenance or restoration of populations of harvested species at levels capable of producing the highest sustainable yield, as determined by appropriate environmental and economic factors.
the management plan for a large number of species established by this regulation requires that greater account be taken of the different ecological roles and functions of the species covered by the plan; as the various species are highly interacting, catches cannot be maximally sustainable for all species at the same time and decisions need to be taken on which species to give priority.
the exploitation of cod and pelagic stocks shall not jeopardise the sustainability of the stocks taken as by-catch in that fishery, i.e.
the plan should therefore also aim at ensuring the conservation of those demersal stocks above biomass levels that correspond to the precautionary and ecosystem-based approaches to fisheries management that can produce the highest sustainable yield.
the committee considers that, in view of the fisheries and the continuing ecological changes in the fisheries habitat, a comprehensive management plan for baltic cod, herring and papalina is needed.
cod, herring and parrotfish are important components of the baltic ecosystem.
it is important to bear in mind that the plan is only an introductory proposal in the very fragile ecosystem of the baltic sea.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
however, i want to emphasise the importance of consumer information and their role as energy producers.
i am particularly pleased with the new initiative to simplify energy classes to make it easier for consumers to navigate.
however, we have a long way to go, both in terms of renewable energy sources and in terms of energy efficiency.
i believe that consumer empowerment should be at the heart of energy reform.
‒ i voted for the report on the implementation of the energy efficiency directive because it emphasises energy efficiency and energy saving as key factors for protecting the environment and climate, enhancing economic competitiveness, creating jobs, ensuring energy security and fighting energy poverty.
energy efficiency is also extremely important in reducing our dependence on imports.
the european union is currently making good progress towards meeting its 2020 climate and energy targets of reducing carbon dioxide emissions, increasing the share of renewable energy sources and improving energy efficiency, and should maintain its global leadership in this regard.
‒ an important part of the european union's environmental and energy policy relates to the production and use of energy from renewable sources.
i welcome this report, which shows that european renewable energy policy has been successful so far.
today, the countries of the european union, including croatia, are heavily dependent on energy imports.
europe imports 53% of its energy, and that imports more than one billion euros a day.
to reduce that dependence, we need to focus on those energy sources that are available locally, and those sources certainly include renewable energy sources.
‒ given that ambitious renewable energy policies, together with energy efficiency, are important drivers for reducing the eu's import dependency and its overall external energy cost and for increasing energy security vis-à-vis external suppliers, and that the eu imports more than half of its total energy consumption, at a cost of more than eur 1 billion every day, representing more than 20% of total imports, and that import dependency is particularly high for crude oil, natural gas and coal, i call for greater use of renewable energy.
while welcoming the fact that the eu is on track to achieve its 2020 target, i am concerned about the large number of countries that, according to the commission's 2014-2020 estimates in the 2015 renewable energy progress report, may need to strengthen their policies and instruments to meet the 2020 targets.
‒ the development of renewable energy can make a major contribution to energy security and sovereignty, as well as to eradicating energy poverty and boosting the economic development of the european union.
the commission should be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection of the union's forests and ecosystems, and to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment.
i support this report because i believe that the european union is on track to meet its 2020 renewable energy targets, but that each member state must make more efforts individually.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states.
‒ a new approach to renewable energy development is needed to make renewable energy sources a pillar of the eu's energy model.
today, our main responsibility must be to fight climate change.
to strengthen our energy model, we need to create quality jobs, drive strategic technology development and reduce our dependence on energy from the rest of the world.
the transition to a sustainable energy production model is a social priority, so we must understand that democratic participation and regulation are necessary to avoid harmful effects on the environment and society.
regulation of renewable energy sources at european level would address a number of problems hampering their development with a view to achieving a sovereign, efficient and clean energy model by 2050. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for granting aid for the production of electricity from renewable sources.
i support this report because i believe that the guidelines contained in it are of high quality and highlight the potential that the development of renewable energy has for europe.
i also think it is extremely important to establish a fundamental right to own energy production and consumption.
‒ the renewable energy directive adopted on 23 april 2009 sets a binding target of 20% of energy consumption in the european union to come from renewable energy sources by 2020. renewable energy sources (wind, solar, hydro, ocean, geothermal, biomass and biofuels) are substitutes for fossil fuels and contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, diversifying energy supply and reducing dependence on unreliable and volatile fossil fuel markets, in particular oil and gas.
while i support the use of these renewable energy sources, i believe that their regulation should remain the responsibility of the states and should not be dealt with at european level.
‒ i voted for the report on the renewable energy progress report as europe is on track to achieve its 2020 targets in this area.
the commission has also concluded that the union's renewable energy targets are not sufficient to achieve the union's renewable energy targets.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states.
‒ this report contains very good elements such as assessing the importance of energy efficiency in achieving the eu's energy and climate policy objectives, advocating the flexibility of this system to make it easier for member states to implement these policies, highlighting the importance of reducing unnecessary red tape, simplifying reporting rules and harmonising european legislation more effectively.
the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the climate change impact of the measures.
‒ greenhouse gas emissions in the eu decreased by 23% between 1990 and 2014. in the same period, eu gdp increased by 46%.
with less and less impact on the climate, businesses and citizens are growing, creating jobs and tax revenue.
i share the view of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety that, following the agreement reached at cop 21 in paris, the eu is more committed than ever to achieving its climate goals, and energy efficiency is one of the most effective ways of reducing carbon dioxide emissions.
the 20% target for reducing carbon dioxide emissions is at risk.
by 2020, only 17.6% of primary energy savings are expected.
i regret that the council of europe's target of at least 27% energy efficiency improvement by 2030 is unambitious compared to the binding 40% target adopted by parliament, which must be implemented in the form of individual national measures.
‒ the energy efficiency directive recognises the importance of energy saving.
the european union is meeting its 2020 climate and energy targets, which include reducing carbon dioxide emissions, increasing the share of renewable energy sources, improving energy efficiency, and should maintain its leading role in this regard.
the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the participation of third countries in union programmes in the field of energy efficiency.
the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection of the union's forests, in particular by assessing the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment.
in order to facilitate citizens' active participation in the energy system, it is important to remove economic, regulatory and administrative barriers.
‒ the energy efficiency directive entered into force in december 2012. it commits member states to set indicative national energy efficiency targets by 2020 based on either primary or final energy consumption.
the directive also lays down legally binding rules for final customers and suppliers of energy.
member states may make those minimum requirements more stringent in order to maximise energy savings.
however, i believe that it is unacceptable for the european union to establish a binding energy efficiency policy and that regulation of energy efficiency should be a competence of the member states and i voted against the energy efficiency directive implementation report.
so if there is something in the functioning of the european union that does not meet the expectations of citizens, i do not think that the solution is to destroy the project of a united europe, but i believe that we need to work together to reform the european union in such a way that it provides stability, social justice, sustainability, growth and jobs, overcomes long-term economic and social uncertainty, protects citizens and tackles the challenges of migration.
mr president, i would like to stress right from the start that we have here a typical example of a win-win and then another additional win-win combination because on the one hand we have a clear message of environmental protection and that is the first win.
we must remain the european union's leader in protecting the environment, the health of our fellow citizens and, of course, in the competitive economies of our member states and our overall economy and the single market.
it's really confusing what the energy efficiency labels we've had so far and what we have now.
however, madam commissioner, what i would like to ask you is: why not, in this single market, for many other products and services, finally devise such a simple, fully acceptable way of indicating product quality or service quality or efficiency, in this case energy efficiency?
the european union needs to be more, we need more european union when we talk about the energy market, the digital market, the banking union.
‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the parliament and of the council on emission limitation and type-approval requirements for internal combustion engines for non-road mobile machinery, given that such machinery contributes significantly to air pollution.
this regulation will bring the european regulatory framework into line with current technological developments and ensure better protection of human health and the environment.
these engines contribute significantly to air pollution and emit approximately 15% of nitrogen oxides (nox) and 5% of particulate matter in the eu.
the aim is to gradually reduce emissions from new engines being placed on the market and thus eventually replace older engines that pollute more.
this is expected to result in a significant overall reduction of toxic emissions to air, protecting human health and the environment.
this regulation will not only have a positive impact on the environment and human health, but also, as part of this agreement, a new transitional clause will allow smes more time to adapt to the new provisions, which is why i supported this report.
‒ reducing air pollution remains one of the european union's top political priorities.
the thematic air pollution strategy to reduce the harmful effects of air pollution on human health and the environment for the period up to 2020 sets legally binding emission limit values at member state level for several air pollutants.
we must take care of the quality of the air we breathe and there must be no lack of political will to take care of our environment and thus directly of human health.
air pollution is a global problem, and it is our task to achieve air quality that does not endanger human health, and we can do this by passing regulations like this one that will regulate emissions from off-road mobile machinery.
each of us, through our commitment to the environment, should set an example of preserving the environment as our common home and caring for the generations yet to experience the benefits of this land.
‒ i support the proposal for emission limits for off-road mobile machinery which aims to regulate harmful emissions from engines that are incorporated into so-called off-road mobile machinery.
emissions from engines in off-road mobile machinery contribute to a significant proportion of the total eu emissions.
the establishment of stricter emission limits for off-road mobile machinery is an essential part of the european union's policy framework for improving air quality and will help member states to reduce their required emissions, as proposed in the ambient air quality directive.
this is why the new legal framework on emissions from off-road mobile machinery is key to achieving the objectives of improving air quality in the european union.
the primary objective of this report is to strike a balance between health and environmental concerns and to increase the competitiveness of the european manufacturing industry.
the primary objective of this report is to strike a balance between health and environmental concerns.
the health and safety of our citizens, and particularly those who work with machinery every day, are key elements of this proposal as they are particularly exposed to emissions of pollutants.
the second objective is to offer the industry long-term security and a stable regulatory environment.
the primary objective of this report is to strike a balance between health and environmental concerns and to offer the industry long-term safety planning and a stable regulatory environment.
the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment protection.
‒ i support this report on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate responsibility.
i believe that the social, environmental and human rights standards in trade agreements have become of great importance to citizens and cannot be ignored.
‒ i voted for the report on the implementation of parliament's 2010 recommendations on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate responsibility because there is still no regulatory framework for corporations to comply with their human rights obligations in relation to social and environmental standards.
the private sector, like the public sector, must contribute to sustainable development and act in a socially and environmentally responsible manner.
the eu has the potential to make a positive contribution to greater respect for human rights and sustainable development at global level through its trade policy, and i therefore support this report.
‒ through its trade policy, investment and trade agreements, the eu can make a positive contribution to greater respect for human rights and sustainable development at global level.
the eu's trade strategy can be a tool for promoting democratic values in third countries, a lever for promoting human rights, prohibiting forced labour and ensuring food security and the right to health, sustainable development and respect for high environmental standards.
member states must engage with the un human rights council and the united nations environment programme (unep) in maintaining transnational corporate responsibility, in protecting human rights and environmental standards.
‒ i supported the report on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate responsibility because i believe it is very important that we all come together to get closer to the sustainable development goals.
protecting the environment must be one of our priorities because only by working together and striving at all levels and caring for our environment do we have a chance to preserve our planet for future generations.
the eu's success in tackling social and environmental issues in the context of its trade diplomacy is far ahead of other global trade players.
but it is important to emphasize the importance of trade and foreign investment as important tools for achieving economic growth, sustainable development, good governance and the protection of human rights.
‒ in 2010, parliament made recommendations to the commission on social and environmental standards and corporate responsibility, but some of these recommendations were not implemented.
the trade and human rights nexus, on the one hand, and social and environmental standards, on the other, are integral to the union's economic and trade relations.
we need trade agreements that will be a means of strengthening sustainable development, promoting human rights and social standards and environmental sustainability around the world.
through a stronger regulatory system, any unfair practices must be curbed and thus create a healthy business climate across the eu in order to preserve jobs and further the development of the member states.
trade and investment agreements need to be framed in such a way as to be a powerful tool for strengthening sustainable development, promoting human rights, labour and social standards and environmental sustainability across the world.
trade and investment agreements must be designed to be a powerful tool for strengthening sustainable development, promoting human rights, labour and social standards and environmental sustainability worldwide.
the eu and azerbaijan have a partnership based on cooperation within the eastern partnership but also on important cooperation in the field of energy.
azerbaijan is an important energy partner of the union.
the eu-azerbaijan relations are not limited to energy security, however, and should be seen in the context of all areas of cooperation envisaged in the eastern partnership framework, with the rule of law and democracy as a basic precondition for cooperation.
as the protocol will allow the gradual opening or strengthening of participation in certain union programmes for azerbaijan and offers an opportunity to promote further cultural, educational, environmental, technical and scientific development and sectoral cooperation, i supported this protocol.
the union and azerbaijan have been negotiating to upgrade their relations since 2010. azerbaijan is an important energy partner of the union, however the importance of their relationship is not limited to energy security, but the importance of this partnership should be considered in the context of all aspects of the cooperation envisaged in the eastern partnership.
the union's energy policy should be based on the principles of the union's policy on energy, energy efficiency and renewable energy.
the directive is the first comprehensive eu cybersecurity regulation and its main objective is to improve the security of the eu online environment with benefits for citizens, consumers and businesses.
the risk sectors are energy, transport, banking and financial sectors, but also healthcare and digital market operators.
the proposal requires all member states to ensure a minimum level of national capacity by setting up competent authorities for network and information security (nis), establishing computer security incident response teams (csirts), adopting national strategies and national cooperation plans for nis, and obliging operators in certain sectors, including internet service providers, energy, transport, financial markets, health, as well as public administration administrators, to share nis incident reporting and adopt appropriate measures to secure nis.
network and information security is also an important prerequisite for creating a trusted environment for global trade in services.
i am particularly pleased with the new initiative to simplify energy classes to make it easier for consumers to navigate.
i'm pleased that the energy committee has adopted the socialist and democrat proposal to test the devices in natural conditions, not in laboratories.
‒ i voted in favour of postponing the vote on the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the parliament and of the council establishing a framework for energy efficiency labelling and repealing directive 2010/30/eu because i consider that further work is needed on the report in order to analyse in more detail the simplification of the regulatory framework and the respect of market rules across the union.
‒ energy labelling is environmentally beneficial because it allows consumers to compare products in terms of their energy efficiency and to take economic and environmental considerations into account when making purchasing decisions.
the current energy labelling system has become opaque due to the over-production and diversification of the highest energy classes, which confuses consumers.
the commission proposal aims to replace the current energy efficiency labelling framework and to introduce a mechanism for changing the value of energy efficiency labels.
the combination of the models of products available on the market and the technological development of the product group in the energy efficiency classes is proposed, which is why i supported this report.
‒ energy efficiency in the context of european energy and climate policy is an important pillar in achieving the objectives of increasing europe's energy independence from energy imports, but also in achieving the objective of keeping the global temperature rise below 2°c by progressively limiting greenhouse gas emissions.
the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection.
the energy efficiency of buildings and energy-related services is to be assessed in the light of the energy performance of buildings and energy-related services provided by the member states.
in order to monitor information and to make the necessary product information available to consumers, i consider it necessary to establish a database on the energy efficiency of household products, and given that this level of administrative burden is necessary, i supported the proposal to decentralise the management of the database.
i support this commission proposal because it is precisely an important part of the whole legislative concept that supports european energy and climate policy, and which will be most visible to consumers.
- a few months ago, the car industry emissions scandal shocked all european citizens.
since its introduction, the label has enabled citizens to better understand the environmental impact of products and their life cycle.
the assessment of directive 2010/30/ec has identified a number of shortcomings which, if addressed, could lead to significant additional energy savings.
i support the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
a well-designed database is a real driver of the change we need to strengthen the role of citizens as protagonists in the energy transition in the european union.
‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for energy efficiency labelling and repealing directive 2010/30/eu, as the existing directive contains a number of shortcomings which, if corrected, could lead to significant additional energy savings.
as a result of these efforts, and in the interests of better regulation of energy labelling, i voted in favour of this report.
‒ since the introduction of the energy efficiency label for individual products, citizens have been able to better understand the environmental impact of products.
directive 2010/30/ec highlights a number of shortcomings that, if addressed, would further improve energy savings.
the report shall aim to move to energy efficiency classes a to g within a reasonable timeframe.
i support the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for energy labelling and repealing directive 2010/30/eu as i believe that the guidelines set out in the report promote environmental standards and enhance the energy efficiency of products.
‒ energy efficiency is a key element of the european union's 2030 climate and energy policy framework and is the most important factor for reducing energy demand and limiting greenhouse gas emissions.
the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a european energy label system, including the establishment of a european energy label system, the establishment of a european energy label system and the establishment of a european energy label system.
i therefore supported the proposal which replaces the existing energy labelling framework and introduces a mechanism to abolish energy efficiency classes, but also proposes a ten-year review.
‒ the european maritime safety agency is an important institution providing technical assistance and support to the european union and the member states in the development and implementation of eu legislation on maritime safety and security and pollution related to navigation, but cooperation with other agencies in maintaining safety is crucial at this time.
‒ as this proposal is in line with the objectives of the european maritime policy until 2018 and the european maritime safety agency which was established to ensure a high, uniform and effective level of maritime safety and security and to prevent and respond to pollution from ships, i supported this report.
‒ national bodies performing the coast guard function are responsible for a large number of tasks in different areas such as protection, security, rescue at sea, border control, customs supervision, environmental protection and general law enforcement.
‒ national bodies performing coast guard functions are responsible for a wide range of tasks such as protection, safety and rescue at sea, border control and environmental protection.
small and medium-sized enterprises are the primary job creators in europe, and cross-border companies pay on average 30% less tax than companies operating in only one country, which seriously distorts competition, leads to job losses and hinders sustainable growth.
in order to optimise the added value of investments funded in whole or in part from the union budget in the field of research and innovation, it is necessary to achieve a synergistic effect between the european structural and investment funds and horizon 2020. the commission will continue to support the implementation of the european year of the environment and the european year of the environment, and will continue to support the implementation of the european year of the environment and the european year of the environment.
‒ horizon 2020 and the structural funds are two different eu policy frameworks for financing development, but both focus on common strategic objectives: excellence, competitiveness and innovation, smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
investing in areas such as scientific research, the acquisition of equipment and innovative infrastructure, key technology, support for smes, renewable energy, food security, tackling demographic ageing, health, etc.
‒ i believe that the links between cohesion policy and other eu policies, funding programmes and initiatives (such as horizon 2020, connecting europe facility, digital single market, rural development, energy union) are strengthened within the common strategic framework introduced by the cpr and that cohesion policy, through all its instruments and objectives, including the urban plan, the territorial programme, investment in smes, potential public investment in the development of innovative solutions in areas such as, inter alia, environment, energy, health, climate, digitalisation and transport, contributes significantly to strengthening the single market and achieving the europe 2020 strategy objectives.
synergies with other competitiveness policies, in particular in the areas of research and development, information and communication technologies, renewable energy and smes, are urgently needed to increase the rate of exploitation of eu research and development results, create new and maintain existing quality jobs and promote the 'green' economy.
‒ i supported the motion for a resolution: synergies between the structural funds and horizon 2020, as the links between cohesion policy and other eu policies and initiatives (horizon 2020, connecting europe facility, rural development, digital single market and energy union) are strengthened within the common strategic framework introduced by the cpr, thus contributing to the achievement of the europe 2020 strategy objectives within all its instruments and objectives, including city plans, territorial programme, investment in smes, smart growth and smart specialisation strategies.
the commission should be able to use the information contained in the annual report to assess the impact of the union's actions on the environment and to assess the impact of the union's actions on the environment.
cohesion policy should be fully aligned with the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, based on the joint action of the three funds: the european regional development fund, the european social fund and the cohesion fund, with wider coordination within the common strategic framework with the european agricultural fund for rural development and the european maritime and fisheries fund.
it is also necessary to ensure energy efficiency and security for all citizens and to take care of climate change.
sustainable agriculture is essential for food security, the economy and the confirmation of environmental standards, and i therefore support continuing work on simplifying the cap to alleviate the administrative burden on farmers, especially small family farms.
it is important to step up efforts to create an energy union, take a more ambitious approach to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and invest in renewable energy sources.
i call for a relaunch of the europe 2020 strategy for sustainable growth and jobs, and for the upgrading of our social market economy model and for the achievement of prosperity for all.
i stress that additional public and private investment is needed for energy transition, environmentally innovative smes, research and education.
it also calls on the commission to take further steps towards the creation of an energy union to guarantee energy security and sustainable energy for european citizens and businesses.
i support the motion for a resolution because i believe that the european union must be committed to working to maintain or achieve global leadership in competitiveness, energy security, economic recovery, tackling the migration crisis and strengthening democracy.
japan must stop its whaling program that threatens animal welfare and biodiversity.
‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on japan's decision to continue whaling in the 2015/16 season because i believe that the international community needs to do more to preserve biodiversity and marine ecosystems, especially when it comes to conserving endangered species.
i supported this resolution as the primary objectives must be the protection of biodiversity, including the conservation of species, while respecting the eu habitats directive, which does not allow commercial whaling.
given that the decision does not sufficiently take into account all aspects related to respect for human rights, fundamental freedoms and democracy in belarus and that the amendments should be based on a real and effective assessment including economic, social, environmental and political aspects, in particular those related to democracy, human rights and fundamental freedoms, i did not support this resolution.
‒ prior to granting the eu guarantee to the european investment bank against losses in respect of belarus, the european commission and the european external action service made all necessary political, economic, social and environmental assessments and concluded that there is sufficient basis to mitigate the restrictive approach of the eu to belarus and that belarus fulfils the conditions for eu guarantees to the european investment bank.
‒ i consider that the economic, political and environmental situation in belarus is not acceptable for financing by the european investment bank under the european union guarantee.
there's too many topics: from the migrant crisis, climate change, peace and democracy, human rights that we talked about earlier.
mr president, i support this objection because it is one of the steps to regulate and reduce the consumption of energy drinks by children and young people in the eu.
energy drink manufacturers claim that their advertising campaigns are not directed at children, but teenagers are among the largest consumers of energy drinks, and increasingly, children under 12 are drinking them.
the link between children and energy drinks is problematic on several levels: first, it is the consumption of large amounts of sugar that is adversely affecting the already significant problem of obesity in children in europe.
fourth, mixing hard liquor with energy drinks is extremely popular among young people.
this isn't about banning energy drinks.
so, too, with caffeine, but also with sugar as ingredients in drinks and energy drinks, which have certain positive and negative properties, and which should be taken care of, especially as they are consumed by children or adolescents.
these health claims promote the use of energy drinks, which may result in an increased intake of caffeine and sugar above the recommended daily allowance.
this is a serious problem when you consider that 68 percent of teenagers consume energy drinks, and 25 percent of them up to three energy drinks at a time.
efsa itself has also established that increased sugar intake in the form of sweetened beverages can contribute to weight gain, and one can of energy drink contains as much as 27 g of sugar.
since the consumption of energy drinks is associated with headaches, sleeping difficulties and behavioural problems in children and adolescents who consume them regularly, i believe that the rules for food advertising should be better regulated by law.
mr. president, i have to say i'm not a big fan of energy drinks because i prefer a good drop of wine or a good beer.
i do have an energy drink every once in a while when i have to drive for an extended period of time, or read, or work at night.
without that, of course, there is no protection for all those boys and girls who consume energy drinks.
a 250-ml can of energy drink may contain as much as 27 g of sugar and 80 mg of caffeine.
a survey showed that 68 percent of teenagers and 8 percent of children regularly consume energy drinks.
i support the motion for a resolution tabled by the european parliament to oppose the adoption of the draft commission regulation because i find the claim that energy drinks increase concentration and help with learning to be worrying.
consider the problems associated with obesity, the effects of caffeine on the body, the development of taste in children, and the mixing of energy drinks with alcohol.
we don't want to ban energy drinks or take them off the market, but we don't want to encourage consumers to consume something healthy if it's not true.
‒ i voted in favour of the report with the proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council on the 71st session of the united nations general assembly (2016/2020(ini) as it highlights all the eu's key priorities on the international stage, taking into account the deteriorating global and regional security environment, the new challenges of the fragile security situation affecting the situation within the eu, and the need for the eu to play a proactive role in the un's work towards peace, human rights security, democracy and the rule of law.
the priorities are reflected in recommendations on peace and security, counter-terrorism, non-proliferation and disarmament, migration, human rights, democracy and the rule of law, sustainable development, climate change and reform of the un system.
‒ given that the security situation in the eu is increasingly volatile and changeable due to a large number of long-standing and new security challenges, including violent conflicts, terrorism, organised crime, unrecorded waves of migrants and climate change, which cannot be solved at national level and which require regional and global solutions, i propose to make a clear recommendation to the council.
the global and regional security environment is becoming more complex, the boundaries between internal and external security are increasingly overlapping, and the un therefore continues to play a key role in ensuring global security and stability.
the security situation in the eu is also increasingly volatile and changeable due to a large number of long-standing and emerging security challenges, including violent conflicts, terrorism, organised crime, unrecorded waves of migrants and climate change, which cannot be addressed at national level and require regional and global solutions.
the eu is also one of the world's greatest protectors and promoters of human rights, fundamental freedoms, cultural values and diversity, democracy and the rule of law, the achievement of environmental sustainability goals through improving the quality of the environment and the sustainable management of natural resources.
europe is exposed to hybrid warfare, cyber terrorism and it is becoming increasingly difficult for a single country or region to navigate the european security environment.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the protection of the environment and the promotion of sustainable development, in particular by ensuring that the union's policies are consistent with the objectives of the union's policy on the protection of the environment and the promotion of sustainable development.
this avoids the authorisation of the use of health claims for caffeine and prevents the manufacturers of energy drinks from using health claims on their energy drinks which are predominantly consumed by adolescents in quantities exceeding the recommended daily intake of caffeine, including products labelled as sugar-free.
caffeine, as an ingredient in beverages and energy drinks, has both positive and negative properties and should be taken care of, especially when there is a possibility of its consumption by children or adolescents.
caffeinated energy drinks contain sweeteners.
i note that a 250ml can of energy drink can contain up to 27 grams of sugar and 80 milligrams of caffeine.
68% of adolescents and 18% of children regularly consume energy drinks.
since the energy drink industry has only committed itself in its optional code of practice for the advertising and labelling of energy drinks not to advertise energy drinks to children under 12 years of age, i consider that the draft commission regulation is not in line with the objective and content of regulation (ec) no 1924/2006 and opposes the adoption of the draft commission regulation.
‒ a 250-ml can of energy drink may contain as much as 27 grams of sugar and 80 mg of caffeine.
a survey showed that 68 percent of teenagers and 8 percent of children regularly consume energy drinks.
i support the motion for a resolution tabled by the european parliament to oppose the adoption of the draft commission regulation because i find the claim that energy drinks increase concentration and help with learning to be worrying.
this is problematic for a number of reasons: obesity, the effects of caffeine on the body, the development of taste in children, and the mixing of energy drinks with alcohol.
‒ the european parliament resolution on the draft commission regulation amending regulation (eu) no 432/2012 establishing a list of permitted health claims made on foods, other than those referring to the reduction of disease risk and to children's development and health, invites the commission to consider the introduction of restrictions with regard to energy drinks aimed at children and adolescents.
in the european union, almost 50% of final energy demand is used for heating and cooling, 80% of which is in residential buildings.
this energy consumption is dependent on fossil fuel consumption by 75%, while renewable energy sources account for only 18%.
this is why the housing sector is the right place to invest more intensely to achieve the desired results in climate and energy policy.
synergies with other eu policies, such as those aimed at renewable energy generation or energy efficiency in buildings, open up a whole new perspective for the european economy and thus for work and employment.
work-life balance policies need to be well-designed, as they are key to improving the working environment, which in turn generates good working conditions and social and business welfare.
the ultimate goal of these strategies is to create sustainable and inclusive economic growth, which is imperative for the eu as it is in an economic, financial and social crisis.
‒ whereas in these times of economic, financial and social crisis the eu needs to invest more effort in creating smart, sustainable and inclusive economic growth, and the timely and successful development of ris3 strategies in the member states depends heavily on their increasing administrative capacity for programming, budgeting, implementation and evaluation within the policy framework to increase private investment in r&d and innovation.
this report gives us the first indicators of the implementation of the strategy for the period 2014-2019. in times of economic, financial and social crisis, the eu must do more to create smart, sustainable and inclusive economic growth.
interregional cooperation at international level between eu member states, but also outside the eu, has so far proved to be a very fruitful field of cooperation: it has contributed to better cooperation and convergence between member states, economic progress, institutional capacity building, adaptation to climate change, etc.
cross-border cooperation projects are showing concrete results: they are removing obstacles to progress in the areas of security, transport, education, energy, health, training and employment.
they were cheated by selling more expensive cars that were supposedly less harmful to the environment.
‒ as mr crocette's parliamentary activities show that he has always been very active in the fight against organised crime and its impact on the union and its member states, and that he has also focused on the impact of systematic corruption on politics and the economy, especially in the area of public procurement in the field of environmental policy, i agree with the decision to preserve the privileges and immunities of my colleague.
audit board structural policies, transport and energy and as a temporary member of the cead horizontal audit board coordination, evaluation, guarantee and development.
‒ the aim of the proposed regulation is to change the eu's energy policy so that households and businesses can buy energy in a safe, sustainable and affordable way.
the commission should be able to assess the impact of the proposed measures on the energy market and to take into account the impact of the measures on the environment.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on 'meeting the new energy market model', as the further integration of the energy market that is needed also requires new solutions to ensure a secure, cheap, efficient and environmentally sustainable supply of energy.
the energy system of the future needs to be more flexible in terms of generation, distribution, demand and storage.
the growing share of various renewable energy sources and the development of new smart grids and new decentralised generation technologies should also be properly foreseen.
the new investment will need to combine the european fund for strategic investments and other specific sources of energy financing such as the connecting europe facility.
the new model should be based on a holistic, future-oriented approach with the aim of an integrated, stable and secure energy supply.
‒ i support the proposal for a new energy market model and generally for the modernisation of an energy market that is sustainable and environmentally friendly.
in all eu member states, unsustainable models should be reduced as much as possible and renewable energy sources given a high priority.
more funds are needed to invest in new plants to produce such energy.
the current electricity system needs to change, putting emphasis on low-carbon renewable energy.
the electricity market is still nationalised and energy prices for standard households are too high.
the price of energy in general in the world is increasing and increasing, so there is also a growing demand for an alternative way of energy production that is more expensive to implement, but later more cost-effective than the current systems.
the common energy policy is a good initiative, but because of the diversity of countries it will be difficult to implement, especially because of the divergence of national conditions in each country.
the promotion of renewable energy sources is of paramount importance for achieving the eu's climate objectives.
‒ the integration of energy markets, together with the integration of all market players, including producer-consumers, will contribute to the treaty objective of secure, affordable, efficient and environmentally sustainable energy supply, and the energy system will need to be more flexible in the future to meet climate and energy objectives, which requires investment in all four flexibility solutions, namely flexible generation, network development, demand flexibility and storage.
welcomes the fact that the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the efficiency of the electricity market, including the introduction of a new energy efficiency standard, the introduction of a new energy efficiency standard, the introduction of a new energy efficiency standard, the introduction of a new energy efficiency standard, the introduction of a new energy efficiency standard, the introduction of a new energy efficiency standard, the introduction of a new energy efficiency standard, the introduction of a new energy efficiency standard, the introduction of a new energy efficiency standard, the introduction of a new energy efficiency standard, the introduction of a new energy efficiency standard, the introduction of a new energy efficiency standard, the introduction of a new energy efficiency standard, the introduction of a new energy efficiency standard, the introduction of a new energy efficiency standard, the introduction of a new energy efficiency standard, the introduction of a new energy efficiency standard, the introduction of a new energy efficiency standard, the introduction of a new energy efficiency standard, the introduction of a new energy efficiency standard, the introduction of a new energy efficiency standard, and the introduction of a new energy efficiency standard;
written.
‒ the european commission's plans must contribute to energy efficiency, security of energy supply and the development of renewable energy sources.
the integration of energy markets will contribute to the objective of a secure, cheap, efficient and environmentally sustainable energy supply.
the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the participation of third countries in union programmes in the field of energy.
it is necessary to combine the resources of the european fund for strategic investments with sources of financing in the energy sector in order to make market-making as efficient as possible.
today, more than half of the eu's electricity is produced without the emission of greenhouse gases.
i support this report because i believe that the european union needs a new energy market model that will enhance regional cooperation in all dimensions of energy supply and demand.
the market will become more decentralised and flexible and will contribute to the achievement of the european union's energy and climate objectives.
‒ the report on 'meeting the new energy market model' enhances regional cooperation in all dimensions of energy supply and demand.
it also proposes the creation of a new energy market that should be well regulated and contribute to the achievement of all the european union's energy objectives.
however, while i support the elements of this report, i cannot support the fact that the new energy union strategy is designed to put the european union at the forefront of renewable energy.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the energy union strategy and its implementation in the light of the new energy efficiency and climate change objectives set out in the energy union strategy.
‒ i voted for the report on the eu's heating and cooling strategy because i believe that member states need to make real progress in transforming heating and cooling, which are part of the wider energy system.
given that almost 50% of the final energy demand in the eu is used for heating and cooling, and that these sectors vary widely across member states due to different energy source structures, climatic conditions, building efficiency levels and industrial intensity, flexibility should be ensured in the choice of appropriate strategic solutions to make those systems more efficient, sustainable and cost-effective.
the eu heating and cooling strategy prioritises areas of action and aims to achieve an efficient sector that increases energy security and facilitates the cost-effective achievement of the eu's climate and energy objectives.
‒ i welcome the proposal for an eu strategy for heating and cooling and support all forms of energy efficiency and sustainability.
with climate change affecting us recently, it is important to 'green' every activity as soon as possible and try to design the best solutions for a sustainable environment.
i am in favour of using renewable energy sources as much as possible to contribute to a better state of nature and the environment.
energy renovation is needed for all buildings that do not have an efficient energy system.
the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection of buildings.
i hope that eu citizens and all bodies will see the need for better energy solutions to ensure a sustainable environment for future generations.
‒ nearly 50% of the eu's final energy demand is used for heating and cooling, 80% of which is in buildings; as the 2015 paris agreement on climate change (cop21) should be reflected in the heating and cooling sector.
the heating and cooling sector, in order to be in line with the eu's energy and climate objectives, should be based on 100% renewable energy sources by 2050 at the latest, which can only be achieved by reducing energy consumption and making full use of the 'energy efficiency first' principle or 'energy efficiency as fuel of first choice'.
every 1 percent increase in energy savings reduces gas imports by 2.6 percent.
given that the market in the heating and cooling sector in the eu is fragmented due to its local nature and the different technologies and economic actors involved in the process, and that the local and regional dimension is key to the introduction of appropriate policies in the heating and cooling sector for the planning and implementation of heating and cooling infrastructure and for the consultation of consumers in order to remove barriers and make heating and cooling systems more efficient and sustainable, i support the rapporteur's position and the adoption of this report.
‒ 50% of the final energy demand in the european union is used for heating and cooling.
the heating and cooling sector needs to be 100% renewable in order to meet the eu's 2050 energy and climate targets.
1 per cent increase in energy savings reduces gas imports by 2.6 per cent.
the share of renewable energy in the heating and cooling sector is increasing, but there is huge potential at all levels to exploit it even more, in particular in residential buildings, whose sector is responsible for 13% of all co2 emissions in the union.
i support the report on the european union heating and cooling strategy because i believe that the guidelines contained therein are of high quality and will contribute to reducing emissions and saving energy.
i also believe that the implementation of these guidelines will increase the share of renewable energy in the building sector, which will contribute to reducing overall co2 emissions at eu level.
‒ i supported this report because high energy efficiency, high-efficiency thermal insulation and the use of renewable energy sources are listed as priorities in the strategy.
the aim is to facilitate decentralised energy production and thereby enable consumers and communities to become more involved in the energy market and to control their own energy consumption.
given the differences in priorities between countries, i agree with the rapporteur that different measures are needed to achieve more efficient use of energy and significant reductions in carbon dioxide emissions.
it is particularly important to emphasise the encouragement of 'green' enterprises that create 'green jobs' and thus contribute to sustainable development.
small and medium-sized enterprises that would qualify for funding from the european structural and investment funds (esi funds), given that they operate in a competitive environment and have to deal with numerous constraints such as cash flow constraints, are heavily affected by complex and volatile rules and administrative burdens, in particular the fact that administrative costs are completely disproportionate to the financial resources allocated to them, the deadlines for processing applications for funding and the need to pay for the undertakings.
we need to invest in transportation systems, digital technology, renewable resources.
it is necessary to emphasise that such tourism must be sustainable and environmentally sensitive, and that the planning and construction of such sites must not impair their original appearance.
i also see in this proposal an opportunity for croatia, which has the potential in its mountain regions to encourage greater development of sustainable tourism and agriculture.
‒ climate change in the alpine region is progressing faster than the global average, leading to more and more elementary disasters such as avalanches and floods.
erdf, esf, cosme, horizon 2020 or erasmus+) will help to create quality jobs in strategic sectors such as bioscience, bioeconomy, energy, eco-products, new materials or e-services.
the eusalp emphasises the importance of financial instruments, encourages innovation and new technologies in key areas of the economy, supports the diversity of tourism, stresses the importance of improving transport and energy links and the importance of protecting and enhancing biodiversity in the alpine region.
whereas the european consensus on development remains the fundamental framework for eu development policy and the european consensus on humanitarian aid reaffirms the fundamental principles of humanitarian aid; whereas peace is recognised as crucial for development in the new 2030 agenda for sustainable development and in the new sustainable development goal 16 on peace and justice; whereas 1.5 billion people worldwide live in fragile conflict-affected regions and whereas the number of fragile states and ungoverned areas is increasing, leaving many exposed to poverty, lawlessness, rampant corruption and violence; as the idea behind the establishment of the mutual fund was to help the 23 countries in the three african regions where some of the most unstable african countries are located, which are affected by migration as countries of origin, transit or destination, sometimes in all three roles, and will benefit most from such a form of eu financial assistance, i support the adoption of this report and the speedy operationalization of this fund.
the reconciliation of private and professional life is an issue we encounter every day and affects family status, birth rate, quality of work and competitiveness of companies, general satisfaction, upbringing and conditions of education, social and economic status and numerous other facts that define the business and private environment and affect the quality of life now and in the near future.
work-life balance policies must be well-designed and should be seen as improving the working environment.
‒ the tripartite social summit for growth and jobs is tasked with ensuring continuous coordination between the council, the commission and the social partners, as well as the coordination of their strategies for high-quality and sustainable employment.
‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on a draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of an economic partnership agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and a sadc epa state, of the other part, as it certainly has the potential to bring about radical positive change, to contribute to sustainable economic growth and to deepen interregional trade and integration.
the conclusion of the agreement will contribute to sustainable development and poverty eradication, enhance the trade policy capacity of the sadc epa states and support favourable conditions for increased investment.
despite its focus on trade in goods, development cooperation and trade, the agreement opens up new opportunities for negotiations on further investment, services, public procurement, intellectual property and sustainable development provisions.
i supported this agreement because i believe it represents a significant step forward in relations with the countries of the african continent and contributes to the sustainable development of the economies of african countries.
‒ the economic partnership agreement between the european union and the sadc epa states currently only covers provisions on trade in goods, development cooperation and trade and sustainable development.
further negotiations on services, investment, intellectual property, public procurement and improved sustainable development provisions are encouraged.
the agreement and further cooperation between member states and sadc epa states has the potential to bring about positive change, contribute to sustainable economic growth and deepen interregional trade and integration, and i therefore supported the recommendation.
‒ i accept this recommendation because i consider the economic partnership agreement between the european union and its member states, on the one hand, and the sadc epa state, on the other hand, to be of great importance as it has the potential to contribute to sustainable economic growth and deepening interregional trade.
this regional trade agreement is development-oriented and currently includes provisions on trade, development cooperation and sustainable development.
i support the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of an economic partnership between the european union and the sadc states as i believe that this agreement will lead to greater regional integration, contribute to sustainable economic growth and increase trade and investment.
‒ the economic partnership agreements (epas), or the trade and development partnerships between the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) states and the european union, aim to support trade, regional integration and the gradual integration of the acp countries into the world economy, while promoting their sustainable development, which is why i supported this report.
it is also very important to underline that this agreement can be a driver of further regional integration and opens the door to some future provisions on services, investments, intellectual property, public procurement and improved provisions on sustainable development.
compared to other sectors, fisheries workers work in a hazardous working environment, where accidents with a fatal outcome are not uncommon and occupational diseases are a risk and occur.
fishing vessels are a hazardous working environment with a high rate of fatal accidents and the risk and occurrence of occupational diseases compared to other sectors.
‒ workers in the fisheries sector need special protection, taking into account, inter alia, the specific characteristics of work on board fishing vessels, the high rate of accidents with or without fatalities and the risk and occurrence of occupational diseases, compared to other sectors, the hazardous working environment, the unclear distinction between working time, rest and leisure time and the impact of fatigue on health and safety, partly also due to insufficient rest, the high frequency of informal and atypical working relationships and the pay systems, including those based on the shares of crew members.
social dumping, whether fiscal or environmental, is contrary to european values.
‒ the europe 2020 strategy should enable the union to steer its economy towards smart, sustainable and inclusive growth accompanied by high levels of employment, productivity and social cohesion.
in the europe 2020 strategy, the european commission has proposed a move towards smart, sustainable and inclusive growth with high levels of employment, productivity and social cohesion at eu level; in that proposal, i particularly welcome the move towards social cohesion at eu level, as we are still facing economic and social inequalities within the eu.
the eu has signed the world's largest wildlife conservation treaty, cites, to ensure the continuation of the wider environmental policy objectives and to regulate international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora and to promote the un 2030 agenda for sustainable development policies.
the eu is a major transit and destination market for the illegal trade in wildlife, in particular for trade in birds, turtles, reptiles and plant species, and therefore the eu's accession to cites is a key step to ensure the continuation of european environmental policy objectives and to regulate international trade in endangered species.
it will also continue to promote the un's 2030 agenda for sustainable development, which is why i supported this resolution.
by controlling international trade, environmental devastation and the extinction of endangered species can be prevented.
taking into account the seriousness of the global biodiversity loss, representing the sixth wave of mass extinction of species, as well as the role of forests and tropical forests, which represent the world's largest terrestrial biodiversity reserve, and the very purpose of cites, which seeks to ensure that international trade in wild fauna and flora does not threaten the survival of those species in the wild, the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) will be held in johannesburg, south africa, from 24 september to 5 october 2016. i support the motion for a resolution on the eu strategic objectives for the 17th meeting of the conference of the parties to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) to be held in johannesburg, south africa, from 24 september to 5 october 2016.
written.
promoting greater competition in this sector is important for achieving the europe 2020 goals of sustainable growth, i.e.
it is important to promote and maintain effective competition in the postal services sector, which will also lead to the achievement of the europe 2020 sustainable growth goals of an economy based on the efficient use of resources and greater competitiveness, which is why i supported the report by mr ferber.
the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection of the union's forests.
in addition to access to the world market, access to finance is one of the most important factors for the creation, sustainability, performance, competitiveness and growth of smes, and in the current climate of crisis and in a situation characterised by budget cuts, a high degree of bank dependence and a decline in investor confidence, inter alia, hamper the inflow of funds into the real economy, and in particular into long-term investment.
smes have an important role to play in strengthening economic, social and territorial cohesion, also contributing to smarter and more sustainable growth, and this sector is important at regional level, especially in rural regions.
the eu budget should therefore contribute to stimulating the creation of long-term, quality and sustainable jobs.
smes contribute to smarter, sustainable and inclusive growth.
i do not agree that the social and political climate is becoming more tolerant of extremist, racist and xenophobic agendas, and i do not agree that the term family includes some communities that are not based on marriage between a man and a woman.
the egf was subsequently extended to cover workers declared redundant as a result of the general financial and economic crisis in the period 2009-2011. the main objective of the egf today is to contribute to smart, inclusive and sustainable economic growth and to foster sustainable employment, which i agree with.
the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states to enable them to assess the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment.
‒ i voted with abstention on the report on the activities, impact and added value of the european globalisation adjustment fund for the period 2007-2014. although the european globalisation adjustment fund aims to contribute to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and to foster sustainable employment, i believe that re-skilling workers is not enough to preserve jobs.
we help the acp countries to develop their own economies on the principles of sustainable development and in this way resolve the crisis we are facing.
even more significant is the extremely adverse impact on biodiversity and greenhouse gas emissions, which consequently affects the lives of people who depend on forests, distorts the market and, of course, encourages corruption.
forests are much more important than we think; they are europe's lungs, a source of energy, a custodian of climate and biodiversity, and they should be respected for their outstanding importance.
there were several mentions of dealing with sdgs and climate change, and many of the action plan’s areas of action contribute to addressing several goals of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development, including sdg 8, sdg 12 and sdg 13, which is climate change, sdg 15 which is life on land and sdg 16, which is peaceful and inclusive societies.
what the commission intends to do: as indicated in the 7th environmental action plan, the commission remains committed to developing policy proposals to address the deforestation challenge, and to this end the commission is in the process of considering the feasibility of measures to achieve this objective, also as a follow-up to the study on the impact of eu consumption on deforestation.
it is making an important contribution to mitigating climate change and to improving governance by clarifying tenure rights but, i agree, still more needs to be done.
in implementing its energy and climate policies, the eu must also ask others to follow its example and contribute to the preservation of their forests.
it is on this footing that i believe that the sustainable use of forests as we know them in europe must also be a condition for trade with third countries when it comes to importing timber and timber products.
i consider indonesia to be a positive example, which has increased its share of certified logging from 20% to 90% since 2002, thus demonstrating its commitment to the conservation and sustainable use of its forests.
the existing voluntary certification mechanism needs to be further strengthened in order to ensure that other countries also achieve the protection of their forests at least to the level of their sustainable use.
i believe that the decision to conclude the paris agreement will send a strong message and highlight the leadership of the eu and its member states and their continued commitment to tackling climate change at international level.
‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the paris agreement adopted under the united nations framework convention on climate change as it gives its consent to the conclusion of that agreement, and i support its ratification and entry into force as soon as possible.
the european union has a key role to play in addressing the impacts of climate change at the global level and therefore needs to focus on the effective implementation of the agreement through concrete policies and measures.
i consider it extremely important that it is a uniform and legally binding agreement which aims, among other things, to limit the increase in global average temperature, to encourage the transition to clean energy, and to respect to the greatest possible extent the principles of accountability and transparency.
avoiding dangerous climate change is in the interest of all global actors, and i therefore support this recommendation.
‒ the paris climate agreement is a key achievement in the fight against climate change and its adoption marked a decisive turn towards comprehensive and joint global action and efforts to mitigate global warming.
these efforts should not be seen as obstacles to economic growth but as a driver for new sustainable growth and jobs.
on 6 march 2015, the eu and its member states submitted their envisaged and nationally determined contributions to the unfccc, committing to be directed towards achieving the binding target of reducing domestic greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40% by 2030. this requires the active involvement of member states and support for the moroccan presidency in its focus on the contribution of renewable energy sources to the fight against climate change.
the scope of the measures to be taken by 2020 needs to be increased in order to meet the targets for greenhouse gas emission reductions, renewable energy and energy savings.
i believe that a globally agreed incentive to innovate in clean and renewable energy technologies is essential to achieve climate goals and to boost growth, which is why i supported this resolution.
the eu ratifies the agreement after 62 countries responsible for 51.89% of greenhouse gas emissions have already done so, and its decision allows the agreement to enter into force this year.
‒ the paris agreement is the most important and the first legally binding global climate agreement.
the most important objective of this agreement is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and limit the increase in global average temperature to well below 2 °c.
the paris agreement shall enter into force on the 30th day following the date on which the parties responsible for at least 55% of the estimated global greenhouse gas emissions deposit their instruments of ratification with the un.
so far, 19 of them have deposited their instruments of ratification, representing a total of 0,18% of all global greenhouse gas emissions.
ratification by the eu allows the treaty to enter into force as the criterion of covering at least 55% of estimated global greenhouse gas emissions is met, which is why i am extremely proud of today's ratification.
the adoption of the decision to conclude the paris agreement has re-emphasised the eu's leading role in the fight against climate change.
‒ the paris agreement is a legally binding agreement that marks a historic milestone in the fight against climate change.
key commitments are set out, such as limiting the global temperature increase to well below 2 °c, reducing global emissions, making the global clean energy transition, establishing national climate change mitigation measures, etc.
the ratification of the paris agreement by the european parliament is a historic moment for all of humanity, as it sends a strong message and highlights the commitment of the european union to tackling climate change.
and we can't just look at it as solving the particular climate problem we face, but as changing the whole paradigm of how humans relate to our planet.
i would also like to stress that the use of clean and green technologies is also the first step towards the sustainable development we all aspire to.
- climate change is a global issue.
the paris agreement is considered to be a highly significant multilateral instrument for climate change mitigation, which seeks to highlight the importance of energy efficiency, the use of renewable energy sources and the reduction of emissions of harmful substances.
the stability of the climate system is important for food security, energy production, water and biodiversity conservation.
the union's contribution to the global warming mitigation efforts should be limited to the amount of eur 100 million per year.
the eu treaty states that the european union's objective is to contribute to solidarity and sustainable development of the planet earth in its relations with the rest of the world.
the eu's environmental policy, as set out in the treaty on the functioning of the eu, promotes measures to combat climate change at international level.
the eu, as a major player in climate diplomacy, has one of the leading roles in the fight against climate change.
given the exceptional importance of the agreement, i support the recommendation for a draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the paris agreement adopted under the united nations framework convention on climate change.
‒ i supported the conclusions of the paris agreement, based on the united nations framework convention on climate change (unfccc), as i believe that this will highlight the leadership of the european union and its member states and continue to address climate change at international level.
in particular, i believe that the implementation of the paris agreement will make a key contribution to global efforts to combat climate change and keep the increase in global average temperature well below 2°c compared to pre-industrial levels.
since the implementation of this convention will achieve the objective of adapting the ecosystem to climate change, allowing economic development to continue in a sustainable manner and not jeopardising food production, i consider that the european parliament should approve this report without delay.
the future agreement must ensure policy coherence for the achievement of sustainable development and identify the fight against inequality and poverty as key features and objectives of the partnership.
cooperation should be pursued in areas of common interest where mutual benefit can be expected, not only in economic terms but also in terms of peace and security, human rights, good governance and democracy, environmental protection and the fight against climate change and other areas related to the well-being of the acp and eu populations.
the parties shall cooperate to ensure that the implementation of the agreement is consistent with the objectives of the union's 2030 agenda for sustainable development and the objectives of the union's 2030 agenda for sustainable development, and to ensure that the implementation of the agreement is consistent with the objectives of the union's 2030 agenda for sustainable development and the objectives of the union's 2030 agenda for sustainable development.
‒ the main objective of the cotonou agreement is to 'reduce and ultimately eradicate poverty, in line with the objectives of sustainable development and the gradual integration of the acp states into the global economy'.
the fight against poverty and inequality, as well as the promotion of sustainable development, must remain the main objectives of cooperation.
the establishment of the most effective framework for cooperation is important in order to promote the strategic interests and shared values of the partners while respecting human rights and promoting sustainable development.
the commission should also be able to provide information on the implementation of the union's policy on sustainable development in the acp states.
while i support the efforts of the rapporteur to eradicate the donor-recipient mentality, i cannot agree with the calls to emphasise the importance of legally binding sustainability provisions and the calls to not jeopardise development aid for its beneficiaries and to rely on fresh funds alone for migration-related initiatives, as i do not consider this to be realistic or proportionate.
the convention was signed on the basis of the protocol of accession of peru to the convention on the protection of the marine environment of the world oceans and of the international convention for the safety of life at sea (icesl) and on the basis of the protocol of accession of peru to the convention on the protection of the marine environment of the world oceans and of the international convention for the safety of life at sea (icesl).
‒ i support this report which stresses the importance of achieving sustainable development, aimed at ending hunger and malnutrition by 2030. i believe that the european commission, the council, the member states and the international community, as well as the governments of developing countries, must take immediate action to combat all forms of malnutrition and to mobilise long-term financial investment for food, food security and sustainable agriculture and to improve food and nutrition security through improved governance and accountability.
‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled after the question for an oral answer (b8-0717/2016) pursuant to rule 128 (5) of the rules of procedure on the next steps for the achievement of the eu's global targets and commitments related to food and food security in the world (2016/2705 ((rsp)) as a coordinated action among global, national, local, governmental, non-governmental and other actors is needed to meet sustainable development goal 2 of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development on the eradication of hunger.
the eu, member states and the international community, as well as developing country governments, need to mobilise immediate long-term financial investment in food and nutrition security and sustainable agriculture and enhance food security.
i also stress the need for the commission to support small farmers in the implementation of innovative, more productive agricultural practices which also meet the criteria of adaptation to climate change and are based on agro-ecology.
i support the sustainable development goal, which aims to eradicate hunger and malnutrition by 2030, by increasing the productivity of smallholder farmers, by achieving sustainable agricultural and food systems that are resilient to climate change, capable of feeding the world's population.
i supported this resolution, among other reasons, because i believe that the responsible use of resources for food production can contribute to the well-being of the eu's population and contribute to the improvement of environmental and climate conditions at global level.
the objective of sustainable development is to eradicate hunger and reduce unhealthy diets by 2030 by increasing the productivity of smallholders, and by achieving sustainable agricultural and food systems resilient to climate change.
but on the other hand, the importance of sustainable agricultural and rural development, responsible and climate-sensitive investments in the agricultural sector and the role of small producers are still being neglected, and i believe that these are the areas that need to be re-emphasised and highlighted.
it is essential to improve the relationship between people and their physical environment in order to integrate the three dimensions of sustainable development - economic, social and environmental.
if done right, agriculture, forestry, and fisheries can provide healthy food for all and generate decent incomes while supporting people focused on rural development and environmental protection.
‒ with the world's population expected to reach 8.5 billion by 2030, the goal of sustainable development and related tasks is to eradicate hunger and malnutrition.
coordinated and rapid action among global, national, local, governmental, non-governmental and private actors, including scientific and industrial research bodies, and among donors is therefore of the utmost importance, in particular with regard to reinvestment in local food production targeting mainly small producers and agro-ecological practices, the achievement of sustainable agricultural and food systems resilient to climate change in order to feed the world's population, while protecting biodiversity.
that is why i think it is right that the eradication of hunger has become one of the priorities of the sustainable development goals of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development.
this resolution encourages the increase of smallholder productivity and the achievement of sustainable agricultural and food systems, and recognises rural transformation as a key process for creating jobs, increasing incomes and achieving long-term food and nutrition security.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation in the member states.
europe is a social market economy with the aim of achieving sustainable economic and inclusive growth, and it is therefore necessary to create a comprehensive industrial policy protecting workers in the eu in order to avoid new displacements of production.
the union's industrial strategy must be based on digitalisation, sustainability, energy efficiency and promote the importance of skilled workers and the link between research and industry to strengthen the eu's industrial competitiveness, which is why i supported this resolution.
‒ in its new strategy for 2012, the commission envisaged a 'new industrial revolution' with the aim of increasing industrial activity to 20% of eu gdp by 2020. however, the negative cases of caterpillar and alstom are examples of the problems faced by european industry where economic growth is still unable to generate improvements in the construction and infrastructure industry, the resource industry and the energy and transport sectors.
the commission should also be able to provide the european parliament and the council with the information necessary to assess the impact of the union's policies on the environment and the environment, including the impact of the union's policies on the environment, and to provide the european parliament and the council with the information necessary to assess the impact of the union's policies on the environment.
the eu must become more involved in efforts to achieve sustainable peace and take concrete action to address this humanitarian and cultural disaster.
it was truly a historic event and the eu showed that it is capable of being a leader, of being in the lead when it comes to fighting climate change.
it is now up to the member states to ratify it in their parliaments - i hope they will do so as quickly as possible - but it is also up to them to show their action plans to combat climate change.
in any case, we remain committed to the targets we have set for 2030, namely to reduce warming by 2°c and greenhouse gas emissions by 40%.
as a social democrat, i am in favour of accounting standards that ensure financial stability, sustainable growth and long-term investment.
‒ i support this question on the un climate change conference.
the draft resolution aims to define the european parliament's position with regard to the climate conference to be held in marrakech, morocco, in november.
the draft resolution addresses issues such as the urgency of ratifying and implementing the paris agreement, but also the comprehensive effort of all sectors to reduce co2 emissions, etc.
i think we all need to work together to balance climate change, to leave a better place for future generations to live in.
‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled after the question for an oral answer (b8-0718/2016) pursuant to rule 128 (5) of the rules of procedure on the implementation of the paris agreement and the un climate change conference to be held in 2016 in marrakech, morocco (cop22) (2016/2814 ((rsp)) as it is practically the last step towards the ratification of the paris agreement and its subsequent implementation.
developed countries need to be urged to drastically reduce their greenhouse gas emissions even more than they have committed to.
on the positive side, the eu is on track to exceed its 2020 greenhouse gas emission reduction targets and to meet the 2020 renewable energy target.
further efforts are needed to mobilise climate change funds of usd 100 billion by 2020.
written.
‒ i welcome the european parliament's resolution on the occasion of the un climate change conference to be held in marrakech, morocco, in 2016. the effects of recent climate change are visible in all parts of the world and we are all feeling them today.
it is our responsibility and duty to future generations to start significantly reducing greenhouse gas emissions today.
the commission will continue to support the development of the union's energy policy and its policies in the field of climate change, including through the establishment of a european energy union.
i support this resolution and stress that the european parliament must have a role in shaping and implementing european climate change policy, which is why i expect the ep to have guaranteed access to all preparatory documents for the upcoming marrakesh conference from the outset.
‒ the ep highlighted as priorities in the resolution: a comprehensive effort by all sectors (the ep warns of emissions linked to land use for agricultural purposes, livestock, forestry and the problem of emissions in the transport sector); reducing non-co2 emissions (the ep also warns of the importance of mitigating emissions of so-called short-lived pollutants such as black carbon, hydrocarbon and methane to slow down short-term partial warming); the role of non-state actors (also the importance of dialogue between governments, business, cities, regions, international climate organisations, civil society and academic institutions to promote a strong global climate finance); the issue of climate change (the ep stressed the need to continue to invest in adaptation efforts to combat climate change) and the importance of eu diplomacy and efforts to mobilise the necessary funds to achieve the eu's climate change ambitions by 2020; welcomes the fact that the eu has committed usd 100 billion to the fight against climate change in the form of a climate change diplomacy and a climate change strategy.
- the existence of climate change is now unquestionable.
the paris agreement is considered to be a highly important instrument for climate change mitigation, which seeks to highlight the importance of energy efficiency, the use of renewable energy sources and the reduction of emissions of harmful substances, all with a view to reducing potential poverty caused by climate change and increasing economic growth.
i support the motion for a resolution on the implementation of the paris agreement and the un climate change conference to be held in marrakech in 2016. the ratification of the paris agreement fulfils the role of parliament in addressing this problem, since parliament has the power to adopt concrete measures.
the european parliament resolution on the united nations climate change conference to be held in marrakech in november 2016 supports the paris agreement and proposes more ambitious targets to combat climate change.
my position is that to protect people, habitats and ecosystems, we need to address the global challenge of climate change and strengthen resilience and reduce vulnerability to climate change.
however, i believe that member states, and other participating countries, cannot achieve the proposed increased targets and i believe that increasing financial resources to combat climate change would only cause additional burdens for member states without any long-term progress at local, national, regional and international level.
that is why i think it is right that the eradication of hunger has become one of the priorities of the sustainable development goals of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development.
this resolution encourages the increase of smallholder productivity and the achievement of sustainable agricultural and food systems, and recognises rural transformation as a key process for creating jobs, increasing incomes and achieving long-term food and nutrition security.
the commission's annual report shows that the environment, transport and internal market and services have in most cases remained at their 2014 level.
the majority of infringements in 2014 were in the area of environmental protection, transport and the internal market.
‒ i supported this resolution as i consider that the draft commission implementing decision goes beyond the powers provided for in directive 2001/18/ec and is not in line with its objective of protecting human health and the environment in certain cases where genetically modified organisms are deliberately released into the environment.
‒ in 2005, efsa issued an opinion concluding that there are no compatible relatives with which maize could be crossed in nature and that no adverse environmental effects are expected from the cultivation and spread of this species.
this is a scenario that carries a high risk to farmers and the environment.
the draft commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law as it is incompatible with the objective of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 which is, in accordance with the precautionary principle, to approximate the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states concerning the protection of human health and the environment when genetically modified organisms are deliberately released into the environment.
in addition, the risk assessment of the cultivation by the european food safety authority is incomplete and the commission's draft implementing decision is not sufficiently aligned with the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states protecting human health and the environment in the event of the deliberate introduction of genetically modified organisms for any purpose other than placing on the union market.
in view of the human health and environmental implications involved, i consider that each member state has the right to determine the conditions or restrictions for the placing on the market of genetically modified products and their cultivation, whether genetically modified food intended directly for human consumption or animal feed.
along with human health, the protection of our traditional agricultural production and the environment must come first, so we need to take every possible measure to prevent genetically modified corn from being dispersed through the air.
theosinta, the ancestor of cultivated maize, present in spain since 2009, is the one that poses a major risk to farmers and the environment and is a cause for concern.
for this reason, and because the draft commission implementing decision exceeds the powers provided for in directive 2001/18/ec and is not in line with the objective of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 to protect human health and the environment in cases of deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms, i supported this resolution.
this is a scenario that carries a high risk to farmers and the environment.
the draft commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law as it is incompatible with the objective of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 which is, in accordance with the precautionary principle, to approximate the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states concerning the protection of human health and the environment when genetically modified organisms are deliberately released into the environment.
in addition, the risk assessment of the cultivation by the european food safety authority is incomplete and the commission's draft implementing decision is not sufficiently aligned with the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states protecting human health and the environment in the event of the deliberate introduction of genetically modified organisms for any purpose other than placing on the union market.
as i have already pointed out, certain member states have prohibited the cultivation of this genetically modified maize and, since this decision may affect human health, the environment and agriculture in the member states, i consider that each member state must have the right to choose whether to allow the placing of genetically modified seed on its market.
the impact of genetically modified products has been a subject of debate for many years, given that various scientific studies show a high potential for adverse effects on human health and the environment.
i believe that the commission should withdraw its decision and that future decisions should be taken primarily in line with the provision of high protection of human health and animal welfare and the environment, and that it should bear in mind that the european parliament has never given authorisation for the placing on the market of genetically modified products.
‒ i supported this resolution as i consider that the draft implementing decision goes beyond the powers provided for in regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 and is not compatible with its objectives of providing a basis for a high level of protection of human health and life, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests with regard to genetically modified food and feed, and at the same time the effective functioning of the internal market.
i would remind you that the efsa gmo panel reiterates its recommendations for monitoring the environmental impact of the placing on the market of mon 810 maize every year, and it should be borne in mind that efsa itself has excluded cross-pollination in maize in its scientific opinion, thus overlooking the potential risks to biodiversity.
‒ efsa arbitrarily excluded cross-pollination in maize from consideration in its scientific opinion on mon 810 maize, thereby overlooking potential risks to biodiversity.
theocyte populations may become recipients of transgenic dna derived from mon 810 grown in spain in some regions where theocyte is spreading uncontrollably, thereby producing bt toxin and allowing a higher survivability of maize hybrids and theocyte hybrids compared to theocyte native plants such a scenario poses serious risks to farmers and the environment.
the efsa gmo committee repeats its recommendations on the monitoring of the environmental impact of the placing on the market of mon 810 maize and the importance of national gmo cultivation registries every year in vain.
the draft commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law as it is incompatible with the objective of the regulation to provide a basis for a high level of protection of human health and life, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests with regard to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market.
in addition, the risk assessment of the cultivation by the european food safety authority is incomplete and the draft implementing decision by the commission is not in line with the objectives of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 to ensure a high level of protection of human health and life, animals, the environment and consumers associated with genetically modified food while ensuring the efficient functioning of the internal market.
i also believe that all the institutions of the european union, including the commission, should put a high level of protection of the life and health of citizens, the preservation and protection of the environment and consumer protection first.
for these reasons, but also considering that the draft implementing decision of the commission exceeds the implementing powers provided for in regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 and is contrary to its objective of a high level of protection of human health and life, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests with regard to genetically modified food and feed, and at the same time to the effective functioning of the internal market, i have decided to support this resolution.
as parliament suggested to the commission that it submit a new proposal that would take into account member states' concerns, which are not exclusively related to the safety of genetically modified organisms for health or the environment, this has not been done to date.
it is not in accordance with union law, is incompatible with the objective of the regulation to provide a basis for a high level of protection of human health and life, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests with regard to genetically modified food and feed and thus to guarantee the effective functioning of the internal market.
however, i expect the commission to submit a new legislative proposal amending regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 which will also take into account concerns expressed by member states on issues not necessarily related to the safety of genetically modified organisms for health or the environment.
it is necessary to protect human health, animal health and the environment.
as there are still various doubts about the impact of genetically modified products, both on human health and on the environment and animal health, i consider it irresponsible to renew the authorisation of a product for which we cannot say with certainty that it has no harmful effects.
in view of the above, i consider that the draft implementing decision is not in line with the objective of a high level of protection of human health and life, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests with regard to genetically modified food and feed while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market, as set out in regulation (ec) no 1829/2003, the draft also exceeds the implementing powers of that regulation and therefore i support the resolution and stress that the regulation must be amended in such a way that the concern for the wishes of the member states is not limited to health and environmental impact issues.
it is not in accordance with union law, is incompatible with the objective of the regulation to provide a basis for a high level of protection of human health and life, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests with regard to genetically modified food and feed and thus to guarantee the effective functioning of the internal market.
i call on the commission to take into account issues that are frequently raised at national level and that go beyond concerns about the safety of genetically modified organisms for health and the environment.
such a high-profile legislative procedure is not appropriate for the adoption of decisions relevant to the protection of human health, animal health and the environment.
the commission should take such decisions primarily on the basis of the protection of human health and the environment and should be guided by the fact that the european parliament, as the representative body of the citizens of the european union, has never given its consent to the placing on the market of genetically modified products.
mr. president, when my college friends see that i've been talking about sustainable finance, they'll probably laugh because i was once the editor-in-chief of a magazine called bankruptcy.
we really need to talk about this and that kind of sustainable finance here.
i think that in any case we need to talk about the synergy of funding many projects that are important to us especially when we talk about climate change and green projects that simply cannot be seriously funded without also having in mind the need for various types of subsidies.
speaking specifically about energy, i'm more than pleased that finally a project in croatia, called plomin 3, is no longer in operation because it was the idea to use coal and to pollute again for the next twenty, thirty years an area.
however, investing in wind and solar, as we have a number of examples in croatia, we know that it is looking for the right kind of subsidies and in that context i seriously think that the commission has to come out with concrete proposals where we really need to use solar energy in europe because it doesn't make sense to me that on many parallels where the sun is very scarce we often see solar power plants or attempts to exploit the profitability of the sun for energy purposes.
and finally, i would add that i am convinced that all of these aspects of funding that are available can create sustainable funding, not bankrupt us.
mr. president, financial sustainability is not an end in itself.
there's been a lot of talk here today about that aspect, about climate change and the green economy, but financial sustainability is important for the whole, not just the financial life of our societies and our countries.
for example, the pension systems of our countries, many of them, are on the verge of sustainability, and since these systems collectively account for a large part of public finances, their breakdown can lead to a breakdown of the overall public finances.
all these mechanisms should be found in all other bilateral and multilateral agreements concluded by the eu, and in particular in development aid programmes, as the eu is the largest donor of all other countries together with eur 68 billion in 2015. and we can use that development aid to develop those mechanisms in developing countries that are actually the most vulnerable to the problems of financial sustainability, the dangers of unsustainability.
mr president, i am convinced that the energy union is the only correct solution, and in that context, of course, solidarity with countries with energy problems.
i think this is very important for the transition of the european union towards a low-carbon society.
but what i would like to draw attention to is that we have defined some of our goals by signing the paris agreement, that we have embedded this in the european parliament's resolutions as goals that we should achieve by 2030 with a view to 2050, and that we have to warn the member states that switching to natural gas as a substitute for coal is not the solution, because it's only a 40% reduction in emissions and we're not going to achieve the goals that we promised, actually signed the paris agreement.
i would point out that in addition to energy and transport, the sector is very important and it is very important to link this lng strategy with the transport strategy.
mr president, commissioner vella, i think this is a very important subject because the common fisheries policy must certainly define the sustainable development of fisheries in the european union and especially in those member states which have this wealth, but also this tradition.
i would also like to thank him for including in his report the need to strengthen the eurovelo cycling network, which is also a good alternative, or follow-up to sustainable transport.
the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment protection.
energy cooperation can play an important role in increasing the diversification of the sources of energy supply in the eu and reducing the dependence of member states on a single supplier.
in addition, institutional changes will foster better public information and understanding of the eu in terms of culture, human rights and environmental sustainability.
trade and human rights can be mutually supportive, and the business community can also play an important role in promoting human rights, democracy, environmental standards and responsible business.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
‒ the primary focus of this report is to call on corporations doing business in third countries to voluntarily embrace values relating to human rights, labour standards, environmental protection and the fight against corruption.
the increase in lng on the global market is a good opportunity for the eu to transform its energy supply.
however, i believe that lng is only a temporary solution, whereas we urgently need a long-term reduction of gas dependence within the eu in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to achieve the union's climate and energy objectives.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu strategy for lng and gas storage (2016/2059(ini)) as the internal energy market, by including lng and gas storage, has a significant role to play in achieving a resilient energy union.
the eu lng and gas storage strategy is one of the elements of the energy union in achieving a sustainable, secure, competitive and independent energy system.
the eu lng strategy must be aligned with the framework strategy for a resilient energy union and contribute to greater energy security, decarbonisation, long-term economic sustainability and low energy prices.
i believe that the future of european energy policy lies in the use of energy from renewable sources, energy that does not come from fossil fuels and energy that will be available to our citizens at reasonable prices.
however, in order to achieve this worthwhile objective, it is necessary to devise ways of making the european energy market independent of the use of different sources of energy supply and of as many different suppliers as possible.
the project will be implemented in the following areas: in this way, it can ensure the safe reception and transport of this energy in the central european area.
it is precisely because of these opportunities offered by this eu strategy that i ask the newly elected croatian authorities to start drafting a new energy strategy as soon as possible so that croatia can fully adapt to today's needs and be included in the current currents of european energy and climate policy.
‒ gas will continue to play an important role in the eu's energy system for decades to come.
energy security will be enhanced by better coordination of national energy policies, the establishment of a true energy union with a single energy market and a common energy policy.
it is important to weaken the eu's dependence on the import of energy from authoritarian regimes that violate human rights, in line with the eu's core values.
the eu, as the world's second largest importer of liquefied natural gas, needs to play a more proactive role in international energy diplomacy, regulatory development and fostering flexibility and convergence of global gas markets.
the ultimate goal is to realise our aspiration to rapidly transition to a sustainable, secure and competitive energy system and end our dependence on greenhouse gas emissions.
we want to become the world leader in renewable energy.
‒ the european union is the world's second largest importer of liquefied natural gas, so a more proactive policy in international energy diplomacy and better coordination of national energy policies are important for the purpose of equitable affordability of energy supply.
the eu lng and gas storage strategy contributes to the european union's goal of moving as soon as possible to a sustainable, secure and competitive energy system and to making the eu more competitive in the field of renewable energy at the global level.
i support the report on the eu strategy for liquefied natural gas and gas storage by the committee on industry, research and energy.
‒ the report on the european union strategy for liquefied natural gas and gas storage contains many useful points such as increasing energy security, integrating the european energy market, energy efficiency, decarbonising the economy and research, innovation and competitiveness.
but i cannot agree with the call to set binding climate and energy targets for 2030. since the targets of a 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions in the european union, a share of renewable energy of at least 30% and a 40% increase in energy efficiency are unrealistic, i have abstained.
the review of the council regulation, which is expected to take place soon, will focus on better implementation of the standards in the different member states, in particular by promoting greater harmonisation, provided that the simplification is based on a solid existing control framework and does not reduce the highest standards in terms of occupational, environmental, trade union or social protection.
‒ the transport potential and the development of transport infrastructure for the purpose of balanced and sustainable economic growth and development in these parts of the european union is of paramount importance.
the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment protection.
above all, the environment must not be neglected.
improving transport infrastructure can have a positive impact on the environment and on the energy efficiency of transport.
further development of transport should include solutions that take the environment into account.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation in the member states.
the insufficiently controlled import of plants infected by pests that have no natural enemies in europe is a major threat to our biodiversity.
however, we know about the palm oil problem and all that's happening in terms of the environmental damage.
the commission should be able to make use of the appropriations made available to it under the multiannual financial framework for the period from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2015. the union should be able to contribute to the development of the union's energy sector, including through the development of the union's energy sector, and to the development of the union's energy sector.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's commitments in the area of climate change and its impact on the environment, in particular through the implementation of the paris agreement.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's commitments in the area of climate change and its impact on the environment, in particular through the implementation of the paris agreement.
it is necessary to ensure for the remaining years of the current financial perspective a realistic, credible, coherent and sustainable eu budget which must strike a balance between meeting the union's long-term political priorities and responding to new challenges.
the commission intends to simplify the financial rules, which is an important conclusion for the mid-term review, and the simplification itself must be aimed at improving and implementing the user environment.
the credibility of the european union itself is at stake and i therefore vote in favour of this resolution on the mid-term review of the mff 2014-2020 and call on the council to take responsibility, to put words and deeds in harmony and to guarantee a realistic, sustainable and credible budget for the remaining years of the current financial perspective.
the problem is a series of serious crises that have emerged over the past few years, in particular the migration and refugee crisis, internal security problems, external unforeseen situations, the crisis in the agricultural sector, high levels of youth unemployment, environmental challenges, etc.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate and energy policy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate and energy policy.
the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and on the environment in the member states.
the commission should also be able to use the information contained in the annual report to assess the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment.
‒ i voted in favour of the draft european parliament resolution on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the parliament and of the council on protective measures against organisms harmful to plants and amending regulations (eu) no 228/2013, (eu) no 652/2014 and (eu) no 1143/2014 of the parliament and of the council and repealing council directives 69/464/eec, 74/647/eec, 93/85/eec, 98/57/ec, 2000/29/ec, 2006/91/ec and 2007/33/ec, as plant protection is essential to achieve the sustainability and competitiveness of the agricultural and forestry sector.
it is necessary to preserve european biodiversity and to prevent the introduction of pests on imported plants.
the proposed amendment replaces and repeals directive 2000/29/ec which seeks to establish a transparent and sustainable regulatory framework for plant health, and i therefore voted against the proposal to reject the council's position.
plant health is key to promoting a sustainable and competitive agriculture, horticulture and forestry sector.
the eu plant health regime is the cornerstone of the health protection and economic sustainability of the plant production sector.
these organisms are particularly dangerous because they threaten biodiversity and ecosystems.
the new policy mix presented by the commission needs to be implemented to stimulate growth, as monetary policy alone is not sufficient to stimulate growth if other elements such as investment and sustainable structural reforms are lacking.
to increase economic growth, productivity and the eu's competitiveness in the market, investments are needed in transport, telecommunications, digitalisation, environmental protection, education, and research and innovation.
i voted against because i think the report's focus has gone completely wrong instead of focusing on the importance of implementing structural reforms in individual member states of the union, the report identified weak public demand and a deteriorating international environment as key challenges facing europe on the road to economic recovery.
the domains include air traffic control, carbon energy, nanotechnology, computer technology, cleaner aviation technology and nuclear fusion.
in europe, we need to build a dynamic ecosystem for the development of new technologies.
‒ i voted against the discharge decision on the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. eniac was established on 20 december 2007 to establish and implement a research programme to develop key competences in nanoelectronics in various application areas in order to increase competitiveness and sustainability and to enable the development of new markets and societal applications.
the domains include air traffic control, carbon energy, nanotechnology, computer technology, cleaner aviation technology and nuclear fusion.
‒ the artemis joint undertaking was established in december 2007 for a period of 10 years to define and implement a research programme to develop key technologies for embedded computing systems in order to increase the competitiveness and sustainability of the union and to enable the emergence of new markets and socially relevant applications.
the artemis joint undertaking aims to define and implement a 'research programme' to develop key technologies for embedded computing systems in different application areas in order to increase european competitiveness and sustainability and to enable the emergence of new markets and societal applications.
‒ i support this 2014 dissolution report for the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy.
the domains include air traffic control, carbon energy, nanotechnology, computer technology, cleaner aviation technology and nuclear fusion.
‒ i voted in favour of the second discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2014, as the discharge and the approval of the accounts allow the european joint undertaking to continue its work without any disruption.
‒ the european parliament gives discharge to the executive director of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy in respect of the implementation of the budget and the closure of the accounts of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. as the director-general of the iter organisation has presented an action plan to the iter council with concrete measures to address the main constraints affecting the development of the project, i have supported this report.
‒ the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy is an international undertaking involving, in addition to the eu member states, major economic powers such as the usa, india, japan, russia and china.
the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the proposed measures on the environment and the environment protection of the union's forests, in particular by assessing the impact of the proposed measures on the environment and the environment protection of the union's forests.
i am proud of the eu's important role within the project, our leadership on the way to the energy future.
the european union has created a european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy, with the tasks of ensuring the european community's contribution to the international fusion energy organisation (iter) for atomic energy, ensuring the contribution of euratom to the widespread access activities with japan for the accelerated realisation of fusion energy, and preparing and coordinating the programme of activities for the preparation of the construction of experimental fusion reactors and associated facilities.
the union's macro-financial assistance should be directed to the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance and the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, the associated countries of the former soviet union, the associated countries cyprus, malta and turkey, and the efta countries, the associated countries cyprus, malta and turkey, and the efta countries, the efta countries and the efta countries, members of the european economic area, and efta countries, members of the european economic area, and associated countries, members of the european economic area and non-member countries, as well as to the implementation of the european investment bank's (eib) macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, the efta countries, members of the european investment bank and the efta states, and the efta states, members of the european investment bank, in accordance with the provisions of the treaty on european union, in accordance with the provisions of the association agreement between the european economic area and the european community and the european atomic energy community ('the 'eib').
‒ building a stable and secure environment is not only necessary in the city of mosul, but in the wider area around this great city.
this joint proposal supports the objectives of the nuclear non-proliferation treaty, as they underpin global efforts to prevent proliferation, promote the safe use of nuclear energy for civilian purposes and achieve the goal of a world free of nuclear weapons.
the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons (npt) is a key international treaty that seeks to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons and nuclear weapons technology, promote cooperation in the peaceful uses of nuclear energy, and advocate global nuclear disarmament, and has been signed by 191 states.
the objectives of this treaty underpin global efforts to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons, to promote the safe use of nuclear energy for civilian purposes and to achieve the goal of a world free of nuclear weapons.
we live in a world where the effects of radiation pollution are impossible to contain within a narrow range of potential conflict.
work should also be done to curb nuclear testing in order to protect human health and the environment.
i also support the strengthening of the mandate of the international atomic energy agency and the creation of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the middle east, which is one of the key preconditions for building lasting peace in the region.
the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment protection.
the creation of jobs in rural areas must be part of a sustainable policy geared to specific areas.
the commission should also be able to use the information provided by the member states to assess the impact of the measures taken by the member states on the environment and the environment in the union.
i believe that the development of a competitive and sustainable agricultural model based on family, diversified and multifunctional farming has no alternative.
a hundred years ago, when wartime time was first introduced, the main argument was to save the key energy source, coal.
today, fortunately, we have more and more renewable energy sources, and of course our daily lives have completely changed.
so it's clear that energy conservation is no longer a strong enough argument to change the clocks throughout the year.
they claim there's virtually no energy savings.
five years after the forum held in busan, korea, it is a good moment to assess the implementation of commitments taken and to discuss how effective development cooperation can best contribute to implementing the 2030 agenda on sustainable development and the addis ababa action plan on financing for development.
the private sector and providers of south-south cooperation can make a huge contribution to achieving the sustainable development goals.
mr president, the coordination of fiscal policies and joint action in the framework of the european semester have proved to be more than necessary for the long-term and sustainable development of the european union.
there is still plenty of room for investment and growth, and a lot of work ahead of us all, from building the digital single market, the energy union to an incentive ecosystem for innovation and start-ups.
in view of the current security environment in the european union, it is clear that it is in the common interest to establish high-quality cooperation in order to create a high-quality framework for the fight against international crime.
i believe that the maximum sustainable yield principle should be fully implemented by establishing rules on fishing quotas and the obligation to land cod stocks in good time.
i believe that maritime and fisheries policy should be based on sustainable measures and principles and in accordance with national and international provisions.
the scientific evaluation of the effectiveness of council regulation (ec) no 1342/2008, carried out in 2011, concluded that the plan for cod stocks and the fishery exploitation of those stocks has not achieved its objectives but that there is a prospect of achieving them in 2015. the commission should be able to request the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, which is to be consulted by the european parliament and the council.
‒ i supported a recommendation that would allow cod catches to be above the level acceptable for achieving sustainable cod stocks, and these measures should apply from 1 january 2017 for the kattegat, skagerrak, north sea, eastern channel, areas west of scotland and the irish sea.
the objective of these measures is to ensure that cod is restored to a number that will allow a sustainable fishery.
only sound fiscal policies and productivity-enhancing reforms can drive sustainable improvements in the economy in the long term.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and climate change.
military threats, terrorism, hybrid threats, economic instability, cyber and energy insecurity, organized crime represent the main security threats in an increasingly complex and interconnected world.
it is necessary to establish a council of defence ministers in order to provide sustainable political leadership and coordinate the shaping of the european defence union.
a truly strong european defence union can offer member states guarantees and capabilities beyond those they have themselves, which is particularly needed in the face of the deteriorating security environment at the european union's borders.
i support this report because the deterioration of the security environment on the eastern and southern borders of the european union calls for the urgent establishment of a european defence union.
‒ the strengthening of the position on the need to create a european defence union comes at a time when the international foreign and security situation and the european union environment are undergoing crises and instabilities that could result in a wider wave of destabilisation.
it increases the safety of passengers on ships sailing in eu waters, revitalizes the tourism potential of remote local communities and increases environmental efficiency, and thus quality of life.
this also reduces co2 emissions and congestion on the roads, and it is important to note that waterways are not only used for inland navigation but increasingly also along the coast.
‒ passenger water transport plays a key role in creating a more sustainable european transport sector.
there are many european regions where ferry or round-trip transport would be more sustainable, easier and faster, thus increasing their social and economic well-being while protecting the environment and the health of europe's citizens.
in addition to the potential of small vessels to significantly improve environmental performance, they could also be used to provide transport services of key importance to remote local communities and to revitalise their tourism potential.
today 75% of europe's trade with other countries and 40% of its intra-european freight traffic is carried by waterways, and to this statistic we must add passenger transport precisely because of its cost-effectiveness and minimal co2 emissions.
we also need to take into account the environmental targets we have set for ourselves, which this report is in line with.
by encouraging people to use this form of transport, through affordable costs and quality of service, we would reduce the daily use of cars and thus the air pollution.
‒ europe's geographical features, its long coastline and its numerous islands and rivers offer excellent opportunities for sustainable passenger waterways and must be given greater attention in the eu's transport policy agenda.
the integration of waterborne passenger traffic into urban public transport networks could significantly improve efficiency in terms of mobility, environmental protection, quality of life, cost-effectiveness, land transport network relief and comfort in cities.
it is the most sustainable way of travelling and its integration into urban public transport networks would significantly improve efficiency in terms of mobility, environmental protection, quality of life, affordability and comfort in cities.
i supported the proposal for a european parliament and council directive, taking into account the above factors and the objectives achieved at cop 21 in terms of reducing co2 emissions, in order to contribute to sustainable solutions for a cheaper, cleaner and greener transport sector.
‒ europe's geographical features, its long coastlines and its numerous islands, rivers and canals offer excellent opportunities for sustainable passenger waterways.
the integration of waterborne passenger traffic into urban public transport networks could significantly improve environmental protection, relieve urban land transport networks and employ excess capacity of water infrastructure and vessels.
it also provides an alternative to congested city roads, improves road safety and lays the foundation for reducing car emissions.
the commission's call to the european commission highlighting the importance of the waterway passenger sector in developing sustainable tourism and addressing the seasonal nature of tourism, especially in remote and peripheral regions of the union such as coastal, island, lake and rural regions, is of particular importance.
the commission should be able to assess the impact of the aid on the environment and the environment protection of the union's forests and ecosystems, and to assess the impact of the aid on the environment and the environment.
i particularly welcome the recognition of the importance of this sector in developing sustainable tourism and addressing the seasonal nature of tourism, especially in remote and peripheral regions, and the call to the commission, the member states and local and regional authorities to make the most of the funding opportunities offered by the european union to smes as focal points for the promotion of tourism services, including subsidies to local communities in peripheral regions.
passenger water transport is also environmentally friendly because it is cost-effective and emits a minimum amount of carbon dioxide.
the report stresses that the eu, which has played a leading role in the preparation of the current standards for aid and development effectiveness and in the adoption of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development, should continue to lead in these areas and contribute to considering their interconnections and synergies.
it reaffirms the importance of development assistance and sustainable development financing while promoting an approach that goes beyond aid.
i call for the use of all development policy tools in eradicating poverty and promoting the sustainable development goals.
i support this report because it calls for the use of all development policy tools in poverty eradication and the promotion of sustainable development goals and stresses that the effectiveness of development finance should be assessed on the basis of concrete results.
i believe that the sustainable development goal of peace, justice and strong institutions is of the utmost importance for the effectiveness of development aid, as the rule of law and respect for human rights in developing countries are essential elements for the delivery of development aid and poverty reduction.
i support this report because it clearly highlights the importance of development aid and sustainable development finance, but also calls for an upgrade of the existing approach.
but before i begin on content, let me say that i am particularly glad, and proud even, to discuss our common defence just a few hours after the presentation of our sustainable development package.
also because security in our region depends clearly on sustainable development and also vice-versa.
it is therefore necessary and important to work on smarter investment in the defence industry, and in particular, as i have already pointed out, dual use technology where, for example, the fleets protecting the eu's borders, including the croatian one in the adriatic sea, can be focused on equipment, for search and rescue operations, for medical transport operations, preventing sea pollution, and by modular upgrading in a very short time can become combat fleets.
we said earlier that pollution knows no boundaries.
we highlight every year in the progress report for bosnia and herzegovina the example of the oil refinery in bosnia and herzegovina, in bosanski brod, which causes pollution.
we have an example of that country being the third country in the world to die from air pollution.
so there is no border, we in croatia suffer from pollution in bosnia and herzegovina.
this parliament always has bigger goals than it can achieve, but in any case it is a good way to solve the problems by 2030.
mr president, for years, i would say decades, we have been fighting the battle in istria regarding the air pollution caused by the plomin thermal power plant in the labinština area and, of course, much wider.
in eastern croatia, slavonski brod is one of those cities that suffer from enormous air pollution, and that's coming across the border from bosnia and herzegovina.
i therefore call on this commission to think hard about how to include cross-border air pollution from countries that are not members of the european union but are candidate countries and want to join the european union.
and we need to have a serious conversation with them about transboundary air pollution.
i think this is a big milestone, because we need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, use more renewable energy, and look at energy efficiency.
‒ i voted against because i strongly oppose the unnecessary waste of taxpayers' money on travel between the two seats of the european parliament, because in the same way, without any logical justification, about 180 million euros are spent annually, which could certainly be spent on countless useful and necessary projects.
the member states now need to act to fully implement the directive and furthermore step up their ambition in the fight against air pollution.
‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a directive of the parliament and of the council on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants and amending directive 2003/35/ec, because the deterioration of human health and environmental pollution are problems that know no borders, directly affect all citizens of the union and require urgent action.
air pollution has a direct and powerful impact on premature death, rising health costs, ground-level vegetation diversity, plant growth, and a host of other problems.
the targets set for reducing air pollution are still not met and concrete measures are needed to achieve long-term and consistent union targets.
i support new emission limits for 2020 and 2030, and the development of national air pollution control programmes.
‒ this proposal for a directive should contribute effectively to the achievement of air quality objectives set out in union legislation and to the mitigation of the effects of climate change by reducing emissions of short-lived climate pollutants, improving synergies with union climate and energy policies and ensuring that there is no overlap between existing legislation, while improving air quality worldwide.
however, the eu is still far from achieving its long-term objective of adhering to the recommended pollution limits under the 2005 air quality guidelines.
in 2013, the commission published the long-awaited clean air package, which sets out measures to ensure that existing targets are met in the short term and sets new air quality targets for the period up to 2030. this report emphasises the fact that better regulation and environmental protection are not mutually exclusive and that this directive should therefore be aligned with the other pillars of eu policy.
the commission should be able to assess the impact of the proposed amendments on the environment and the environment protection of the union's forests, and to take into account the impact of the amendments proposed by the commission.
‒ the programmes required by the directive must take into account the cost-effectiveness of emission reduction measures, the priorities of concrete policy measures aimed at reducing the health risks to vulnerable groups of people, quantify additional reductions in greenhouse gas emissions to meet the 2030 world health organisation targets, support the shift of investment towards clean and efficient technologies and sustainable production with the help of fiscal incentives.
the directive contributes to the union's long-term objective of achieving a level of air quality that does not lead to significant adverse effects on human health and the environment, to the achievement of the union's biodiversity and ecosystem objectives by reducing the levels and deposition of certain atmospheric pollutants, to the achievement of the air quality objectives of union legislative acts, to the mitigation of the impacts of climate change by reducing emissions of short-lived climate pollutants and to improving synergies with the union's climate and energy policies.
in the light of the above, i supported the amendments adopted by the european parliament on 28 october 2015 on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants and amending directive 2003/35/ec following reconsideration by the standing committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
‒ the european union has made significant progress in the last 20 years in the area of anthropogenic emissions and air quality thanks to ambitious policies.
however, environmental and human health risks remain.
this directive is an important step in the fight against air pollution.
the directive should contribute to the achievement of air quality objectives set out in union legislation and to the mitigation of the effects of climate change by reducing emissions of short-lived climate pollutants while improving air quality at global level and improving synergies with union climate and energy policies.
90% of europe's citizens live in cities and are exposed to air pollution levels that are harmful to human health.
i call on member states to act as soon as possible and to fully implement the directive and take further steps in our joint fight against air pollution.
‒ air pollution is a local, pan-european and global problem because air pollutants emitted in one country can easily reach other countries, causing or contributing to poor air quality.
the european union is working at many levels to reduce exposure to this problem: through legislation, cooperation with the sectors responsible for pollution, national and regional authorities, non-governmental organisations and research.
the revised thematic strategy on air pollution sets new strategic targets for the period up to 2030 to achieve the union's objectives, including measures to reduce emissions of nitrogen dioxide, nitrous oxide, ammonia, fine particulate matter and the number of cases and premature deaths from air pollution-related diseases.
however, aviation emissions from take-off and landing and marine emissions are still not taken into account.
it is necessary to amend directive 2003/35/ec of the european parliament and of the council in order to ensure consistency with the 1998 aarhus convention on access to information, public participation in decision-making and access to justice in environmental matters.
the enhanced efforts of all member states are a key enabler of this process in reducing emissions of climate pollutants and improving air quality globally.
‒ i support the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants and amending directive 2003/35/ec because it correctly identifies the shortcomings of the existing regulations, in particular as regards the cost-effectiveness of emission reduction measures and the priorities of concrete policy measures aimed at reducing the health risks of vulnerable groups.
air pollutants affect not only humans, but also the environment and the fauna and flora action is needed to offset possible consequences for the ecosystem as a whole.
‒ i have expressed my support for the proposal for a european parliament resolution on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants and amending directive 2003/35/ec.
the report offers a better solution using modern technologies that will increase the efficiency of the control of emissions of air pollutants.
the report defined the shortcomings of the existing regulations in a substantive way, with an emphasis on the cost-effectiveness of measures to reduce pollutant emissions and on the establishment of adequate policy measures that will reduce health risks.
taking into account that pollutants affect the entire ecosystem, additional financial resources from the budget of the european union should be mobilised to achieve adequate air quality.
the report insists that the environmental policy of the european union be fully aligned with positive legislative solutions.
‒ while the eu's policies are largely focused on preserving and protecting the environment, it can be seen that much of the focus is on tackling climate change, while far less attention is paid to air quality.
considering that poor air quality contributes to premature mortality, disease, loss of productivity, loss of crop yields, and damage to buildings, it is clear that emissions of air pollutants are a health and environmental problem.
i support the recognition in the report of the need to reduce the negative impacts and risks of air pollution on the environment and human health, but i believe that the introduction of new, higher limits will not achieve much as individual member states cannot achieve the targets set.
‒ i support the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants and amending directive 2003/35/ec.
the anthropogenic emissions of gases and particulates are mostly caused by incomplete combustion of fuels used for heating, energy production, transport or processes in industrial chemical plants, and by abrasion produced by motor vehicles.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy (based on the council's annual report on the common foreign and security policy to the european parliament) (2016/2067(ini)), given the complex european security environment which has become significantly more dangerous and less predictable and the need for stronger connectivity and coordinated action against the threats and dangers faced by member states.
‒ the european security environment is significantly fragile, with threats of a conventional and hybrid nature, coming from the south and the east, and affecting member states differently.
the fact is that the european union is a large community, with a population of almost 510 million, and that its neighbourhood and external borders are a volatile environment that threatens the stability of the entire continent.
this is the task of national states and national security and intelligence forces, but faced with many non-traditional security challenges, we must become aware that coordination and joint action are the only and exclusive way to achieve the goal, which is peace and an environment that allows prosperity and development for all.
our security environment has been compromised and it's become more fluid and less predictable.
the eu should be prepared to face structural changes in the international security environment - challenges such as state breakdown and cyberattacks, as well as the security implications of climate change.
so it's particularly important to work on smarter investment in the defence industry, and especially as i've already pointed out the dual-use technology where, for example, the fleets that protect the borders of the european union, including croatia in the adriatic sea, can be focused on equipping for search and rescue operations, for medical transport operations, preventing sea pollution, and with modular upgrades in a very short time can become combat fleets.
the volatile european environment requires a clear and consistent response to all threats and the european union must ensure the consistent implementation of the common security and defence policy.
accessibility is a prerequisite for persons with disabilities to lead independent lives and participate in society on an equal basis and is not limited to physical accessibility of the environment but also refers to accessibility of information and communication, including in the form of the provision of sign language content.
deaf, deafblind and deaf-mutes pupils and their parents must be enabled to learn the national or regional sign language of their environment through pre-school care and in schools.
it is of particular importance that the precautionary principle be applied in cases where there is a risk to human health or the environment.
in the present case, the various circumstances indicate that caution should be exercised in order not to approve an active substance which may endanger public health or the environment and i therefore support this objection.
according to the united kingdom environment agency, the active substance benthazone is the most commonly found pesticide in the uk groundwater and is also present in surface water.
based on the assessment of the representative uses of the active substance benthazone, it cannot be concluded that it can be expected that a plant protection product containing the active substance benthazone will not have any adverse effects on human or animal health or on groundwater or any unacceptable effect on the environment, and i therefore support this resolution.
as the possibility of sustainable conventional farming without the use of herbicides is not in sight in the near future, and for all the other reasons mentioned here, i did not support this objection.
‒ the active substance bentazone acts as a selective herbicide used in agriculture and, due to its inherent properties, there is a high possibility of direct leaching into groundwater as well as the presence in surface waters, as confirmed by the environment agency.
i therefore take the view that the draft commission implementing regulation exceeds the implementing powers provided for in regulation (ec) no 1107/2009 and consider that the assessment of representative uses of benzazone is not sufficient to conclude that the plant protection product containing that substance will not have any adverse effects on human or animal health or groundwater, or any unacceptable effects on the environment.
the health and cleanliness of the environment, especially that in which food is produced, must be the european union's absolute priorities.
‒ the approval of the active substance benzazone, which is widely used in agriculture, expires on 30 june 2017. although the commission has proposed to renew the approval of that active substance, i believe that the protection of human health as well as the protection of the environment should be a priority for the institutions of the european union.
the commission should obtain all necessary information on the effects on humans, animals, plants and the environment of that substance before deciding to authorise the renewal.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council providing further macro-financial assistance to the hashemite kingdom of jordan (com ((2016) 0431 c8-0242/2016 2016/0197 ((cod))), given that it is an eu partner country that has been hit particularly hard by the environment in recent years, which has resulted in the loss of a significant part of its traditional market.
pension systems across the european union need to be adapted to ensure adequate, secure and sustainable pensions.
this directive aims to encourage member states to build sustainable occupational pension systems and to facilitate cross-border activity.
sustainable peace must be achieved as soon as possible to stop the suffering of the innocent.
i regret that the commission has provided incomplete documentation to the committee of inquiry into emissions from the automotive sector (emis).
the fight against vat revenue losses and vat-related tax fraud should be a priority for the eu and the member states, and the need for a more inclusive and fairer single market to promote tax justice, sustainable consumption, employment, growth, investment and competitiveness is also highlighted.
vat fraud distorts the fiscal environment, particularly harming small and medium-sized enterprises, and is exploited by criminal organisations that exploit existing legislative gaps between member states.
we need a single european vat area a genuine basis for a deeper and fairer internal market that will help to promote tax justice, sustainable consumption, employment, growth, investment and competitiveness while reducing the potential for vat fraud.
the emergence of a definitive vat area is a prerequisite for the creation of a deeper and more uniform single market driven by tax justice, sustainable consumption, employment, growth, investment and competitiveness.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu action plan to combat illegal wildlife trade because it has serious negative effects on biodiversity, existing ecosystems, the natural heritage of the home countries, natural resources and species conservation.
recently, we've seen a decline in biodiversity, which really leads us to wonder if we're in for another wave of mass extinction.
also, to maintain the un sustainable development goal, it is crucial to prevent further illegal trade in flora and fauna.
the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment protection.
the problem of tackling illegal wildlife trade is addressed in the eu security programme 2015-2020, which states that such illegal activities threaten biodiversity in regions of origin, sustainable development and regional stability.
the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the proposed measures on the environment and on the environment in the member states.
this will not only preserve biodiversity for future generations, but also improve and strengthen the eu's security framework.
i believe that the motion for a resolution adequately addresses the establishment of a prevention against illegal trade in wild fauna and flora by emphasising the importance of its suppression for the preservation of the environment, but also for the protection of the rule of law and the human rights system.
small businesses are facing these and many other challenges more difficult and costly, and this report therefore considers that any regulation imposing new conditions on small businesses, including in tax, social and environmental matters, must be proportionate, simple and clear, must not hamper their development and, where necessary, must reflect the regional and national characteristics of individual member states.
the view of all the leading economic and financial institutions is clear that sustainable economic growth is only possible if there is strong entrepreneurial activity, especially in the small and medium-sized enterprises sector.
‒ small businesses are a key element of european mobility and are full of talent who need a stimulating environment to develop.
the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the transition to a low-carbon economy on the transport sector.
i supported the european parliament's resolution to invest further efforts in completing the single european transport area, thereby contributing to the further growth and development of small and medium-sized transport companies that will offer safe, sustainable and highly competitive solutions.
the resolution encourages the competent institutions to make further efforts to complete the single european transport area and to ensure that the new conditions in tax, social and environmental matters are proportionate.
– mr president, honourable members, i would like to thank the committee on development and its chair, mrs mcavan, for putting energy high on the development agenda.
european union development cooperation in sustainable energy is supporting developing countries to advance towards economic growth powered by sustainable, affordable, reliable and modern energy for all.
the three objectives of our energy and development engagements are to address the lack of energy access, to increase renewable energy generation and to contribute to the fight against climate change while ensuring sustainable use of resources.
half of the global population without access to energy lives in this region and demographics aggravate the issue, with repercussions for political stability and migration to europe.
the promotion of energy, in particular renewable energy, must be owned by the partners.
in the current financial framework, energy is a focal sector in about 30 national and regional indicative programmes.
the commission has signed, on behalf of the european union and together with several member states, 21 joint declarations on enhanced energy cooperation with developing countries’ partners.
second is the creation of an enabling environment.
it is estimated that, through blending, eur 3.7 billion allocated for energy cooperation in the current multiannual financing framework period will leverage investments of eur 15 to eur 20 billion, or even more.
this illustrates the significant contribution it can make to reaching universal access to energy.
there is also an important role for the participation of civil society, as organisations with a long presence and relationships of trust with local populations can be excellent partners in the energy sector.
likewise, women need to play a major role in the integration of renewable energies in local economies and everyday life.
there are still important risks impeding the investments which are necessary to meeting sustainable development goal no 7 – among others political instability, current fluctuations and insufficient market sizes.
let me reconfirm that no 11th edf projects in the energy sector will be presented as long as there is not a substantial project in support of the implementation of the un-led universal periodic review recommendations for eritrea under the governance sector.
and one of the important elements in how we can and should reduce the development gap is, of course, energy policy.
and so i welcome the initiative of my colleague, mr wente, and the committee on development of the european parliament, to raise this issue of access to energy in developing countries.
it's a very ambitious agenda, to get not energy but electricity, which is the most elementary form of energy policy, to 500 million people by 2030, which in itself, even if it's an elementary, not a real approach to energy in all aspects of our operations, is a very ambitious goal and it's important that it's set.
it is important to note that the modern energy policy of the european union is essentially a new european policy because of the increasing difficulty of accessing energy, because of new requirements in terms of clean energy and it would be good if these new european policies in this form as modern and modern could be implemented in those countries that are energy poor.
so, the main topic here is to bring electricity, but commissioner mimica also talked about other aspects of energy cooperation that are much more serious than just bringing electricity to a village in africa.
i draw this parallel because we have the same situation a little bit more globally -- we have the fact that we have no energy and no water.
if we don't have energy and water, we don't have development.
i think that a sincere cooperation of all the key players should be the goal of everyone to save the situation in africa and to allow the people of africa to have access to energy, water and everything they need in key infrastructure projects.
i'm also inclined to talk about more resources to invest in energy in african countries, such as solar and wind energy, and not to do, as my last and third message, those mistakes that we made in developing energy in europe.
so that the more we go to renewable energy sources and even those local sources that will not be networked.
the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the aid on the environment and the environment protection.
i voted in favour of this report because i believe that such a fund is absolutely necessary, especially in times of great climate change which have led to a significant increase in the number of natural disasters.
the union's policy dialogue with the solomon islands is focused on the protection of their vulnerable environment, in particular in relation to climate change.
in terms of development cooperation, the main focus of the european union in relation to the solomon islands since the 1990s has been on sustainable rural development and human resource development.
the eu-federated states of micronesia political dialogue focuses on the protection of their fragile environment, in particular in relation to climate change, and the protection of human rights and gender issues.
the pacific democracy is fully committed to the protection of human rights and we have good communication when it comes to protecting their fragile environment, especially in relation to climate change, but in the field of trade, the eu's relations with the federated states of micronesia are still very limited and the potential for their development needs to be exploited.
the pacific democracy is fully committed to protecting human rights and we have good communication when it comes to protecting their fragile environment, especially in relation to climate change, but in the field of trade, the eu's relations with tuvalu are still very limited and their potential for development needs to be exploited.
the union's policy dialogue with the marshall islands shall focus on the protection of their sensitive environment, in particular in relation to climate change, on the one hand, and the protection of human rights and gender issues, on the other.
the pacific presidential democracy is fully committed to protecting human rights and has a constructive dialogue with the eu on protecting their fragile environment, especially in relation to climate change.
the eu and the republic of the marshall islands signed the agreement on the establishment of a joint committee on the protection of the marine environment and the protection of the marine environment in geneva on 27 june 2016. the agreement has since been applied provisionally pending the approval of the european parliament.
the number of disasters in the eu has increased significantly due to climate change and is becoming an increasingly serious problem, and therefore it is necessary to insist on a flexible instrument to provide adequate and rapid assistance to citizens affected by major disasters.
the beneficiary countries, to take all measures designed to prevent disasters and to restore the affected areas in a sustainable manner.
i voted in favour of this report because i believe that such a fund is absolutely necessary, especially in times of great climate change, which has led to a significant increase in the number of natural disasters.
the eu is also ready to help deliver meaningful fiscal reforms, improve the business climate and competitiveness, and facilitate trade and customs cooperation.
‒ the commission has proposed to mobilise the european union solidarity fund to provide financial assistance in connection with the disaster that struck germany in may and june 2016. the commission has also received information from the member states and the commission on the impact of the measures taken by the member states on the environment and the environment.
‒ draft budget no 6/2016 covers the proposed mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund for the floods that affected germany in may and june 2016. the commission therefore proposes to amend the budget for 2016 and to increase budget line 13 06 01 'aid to member states in the event of major natural disasters with serious consequences for living conditions, the natural environment or the economy' by eur 31 475 125 in commitment and payment appropriations.
draft budget no 6/2016 includes the proposed mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund for the floods that affected germany in may and june 2016, and therefore proposes to increase budget line 13 06 01 'aid to member states in the event of major natural disasters having serious consequences for living conditions, the natural environment or the economy' by eur 31 475 125 in commitment appropriations and payment appropriations, which is the amount of aid authorised by the mobilisation of the solidarity fund for germany.
‒ the commission has proposed to amend the budget for 2016 and to increase budget line 13 06 01 'aid to member states in the event of major natural disasters with serious consequences for living conditions, the natural environment or the economy' by eur 31 475 125 in commitment and payment appropriations.
the commission proposes to amend the budget for 2016 and to increase budget line 13 06 01 'aid to member states in the event of major natural disasters with serious consequences for living conditions, the natural environment or the economy' by eur 31 475 125,00 in commitment and payment appropriations.
‒ in line with the commission's proposals to amend the budget and increase the budget line 'assistance to member states in the event of major natural disasters with serious consequences for living conditions, the natural environment or the economy', i support this report.
the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment protection.
european farmers, pressured by the state of the global market, the crisis in the milk sector, the crisis in the fruit and vegetable sector, faced with the increasingly frequent and increasingly severe consequences of global warming, exposed to unfair trade practices and other problems caused by political decisions such as the russian embargo, simply cannot cope with the difficult situation any longer.
secondly, it is also necessary to provide sufficient funds to compensate for the damage caused by climate change.
without young farmers, there will soon be no sustainable agriculture.
a united europe is the complex and proud project of our continent, and like any project, it requires bold investment and resolute support when the environment calls into question its success.
the soundness and systematic nature of this draft budget is also reflected in the provision of sufficient funds for contingencies, sustainable growth and the mobilisation of flexibility instruments.
economic activities, the environment, agriculture and the potential of the tourism and hospitality industries have also suffered.
the case of energy commissioner miguel arias cañete shows that the current system is not enough.
the report focuses on the importance of updating the existing liability system in the member states to ensure that 'polluter pays' is applied to traditional pollution as well as to environmental pollution.
‒ i voted in favour of the liability, compensation and financial guarantee report for offshore oil and gas activities because these activities are taking place in increasingly extreme environments and could therefore potentially have major and devastating consequences for the environment and the economy of marine and coastal areas.
this report welcomes the adoption of the coastal safety directive 2013/30/eu, which complements the environmental liability directive 2004/35/ec and the environmental impact assessment directive 2011/92/eu, and the ratification by the council of the protocol on offshore activities to the barcelona convention as the first steps towards the protection of the environment, human activities and the safety of workers.
i would point out that, in accordance with article 191 tfeu, union policy on the environment must be based on the principles of precaution and prevention.
‒ eu action in marine and coastal areas must be geared towards achieving a high level of protection, as offshore oil and gas activities are taking place in increasingly extreme environments and can potentially have large and devastating consequences for the environment and the economy of these areas - and even cross-border adverse impacts.
fisheries and tourism, and other sectors relying on good conditions in the common marine environment, must be protected by adopting preventive measures and devising effective practices.
the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment protection.
‒ the report is based on the principle of prevention and sustainability and the 'polluter pays' principle.
the introduction of criminal liability at eu level could enhance the deterrent effect beyond civil penalties, thereby improving environmental protection and compliance with safety measures.
sustainable access to affordable energy is essential to meet basic human needs and to meet almost all types of economic activity, and the way energy is produced and used can have a major impact on development progress.
‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on energy access in developing countries because i believe that energy management is crucial for economic and human development in the countries concerned.
it is clear that access to energy accelerates development and it is therefore essential that the european union is involved in efforts to reduce poverty in third countries, which of course requires an active and coordinated contribution from governments and civil society.
renewable energy in africa represents a huge potential that must be harnessed in a smart, balanced and responsible way.
the international community must also work together to ensure universal access to energy, and i continue to support this resolution.
the paris agreement stresses the need to promote universal access to sustainable energy in developing countries, in particular in africa, by strengthening the development of renewable energy sources.
africa has the greatest potential in the world for renewable energy, but it also has the greatest backlog in electrification.
the european parliament also notes that africa has a great potential for renewable energy sources in terms of solar and wind energy, and that this would enable access to energy for all, especially in rural areas.
i supported the european parliament resolution on energy access in developing countries which takes into account the sustainable development goals, in particular goal 7 on energy access, goal 12 on sustainable consumption and production and goal 13 on climate change.
this resolution also takes into account the 'sustainable energy for all' initiative launched by the un in 2011. the resolution also includes the 'energy for development' initiative, launched by the european commission in 2012 to provide an additional 500 million people in developing countries with access to sustainable energy by 2030. energy based on a sustainable approach, which is affordable, reliable and secure, is key to meeting basic human needs and rights and is a key driver of development.
access to energy is linked to security and geopolitical aspects, and energy issues can become a source of conflict.
the resolution calls for the phasing out of fossil fuel subsidies and encourages the allocation of these released funds to effective social policies and measures to eradicate energy poverty in developing countries.
‒ sustainable access to reliable and secure energy is key to meeting basic human needs and is a key driver of development, the foundation of most economic activities.
in terms of this approach, the worst situation is in africa, particularly the sub-saharan region, where population is growing faster than access to energy.
the heavy reliance on traditional biomass is putting at risk forests and scrub areas across the african continent - the continent with the greatest potential for renewable energy in the world.
the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment protection.
i also call on the eu to include a gender dimension in all its energy policies.
the example of the use of coal for traditional cooking clearly shows the harm to health and the environment, with women bearing a disproportionate share of the burden of using such materials.
i welcome 'energy for development', the commission's initiative to provide access to sustainable energy for an additional 500 million people in developing countries by 2030, as well as the electrifi initiative.
‒ energy poverty is a global challenge, and it concerns europe too.
given that half of those without access to electricity live in africa and that the continent's population is growing faster than energy access is expanding, support for third world countries is essential as sustainable access to affordable, reliable and secure energy is key to meeting basic human needs and rights, including access to clean water, sanitation, a safe environment, healthcare, heating and education.
the paris agreement stresses the need to promote universal access to sustainable energy in developing countries, in particular in africa, by strengthening the development of renewable energy sources i support this draft report because the availability of energy is important for all types of economic activity and is a key driver of development.
in addition, energy access is linked to security and geopolitical aspects and, as energy issues can become a source of conflict, it is important to influence this issue.
‒ i support the motion for a resolution on energy access in developing countries.
i believe that attention needs to be drawn to the extent and implications of energy poverty in developing countries and to the strong involvement of the european union in efforts to reduce this poverty.
in particular, i believe it is important to keep in mind the great potential of renewable energy sources, especially when it comes to solar and wind energy in africa, the high-quality and systematic use of which would provide access to energy in many rural areas.
the commission should also be able to provide information on the implementation of the union's energy policy and on the implementation of the union's energy policy.
‒ governments, civil society and other stakeholders in developing countries, with the help of international partners, need to act strongly and in concert to reduce energy poverty.
the key driver of development is the achievement of sustainable access to energy, which also contributes to poverty eradication.
at the international level, there are various initiatives to promote access to sustainable energy in developing countries, especially in africa, but the effectiveness is still not satisfactory.
the european union should provide support and technical assistance in the field of energy in order to maximise the use of energy from clean, local and economically renewable sources and to reduce carbon dioxide emissions.
i believe that the european union should make its contribution to ensuring access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all, including the poorest people in remote regions, and to reducing energy poverty.
as achieving sustainable access to energy is essential to meeting basic human rights and needs, i supported this resolution.
‒ i support the motion for a resolution on energy access in developing countries because it correctly recognises the importance of energy in accelerating development and draws attention to the extent and implications of energy poverty in developing countries.
the european union must invest heavily in development policy mechanisms and instruments towards third countries to help reduce poverty and to create a framework for sustainable development.
the latter is particularly relevant for rural parts of developing countries that do not have access to energy networks or corridors.
security and energy are strongly linked.
to this end, the european union must encourage local authorities to develop the potential of renewable energy sources in africa.
mr president, commissioners, the commission's proposals on clean energy for all europeans reflect the fact that the clean energy transition is a growth sector of the future and an opportunity for smart investors.
europe imports energy worth €1 billion a day.
investing in energy efficiency reduces the need for energy production.
it's better to invest a billion euros a day in our economy than to pay for energy from imports.
the potential of biomass and biofuels based on the sustainable management of these resources should also be better exploited.
energy efficiency, the use of renewable energy sources and the involvement of consumers in production are the cornerstones of the new energy package.
we are the world's first circular economy, and the new energy package is an extra incentive to keep it that way.
to talk about a new package and not to deal with pollution cases like the one in slavonski brod caused by production in bosanski brod is to be inconsistent.
according to the european environment agency, some pollutants transform into airborne particles that can affect countries far from the source of the pollution.
the published graphs show that 63% of all air pollution in the netherlands comes from outside its borders.
in the case of the czech republic, this percentage is around 70%, and the pollution emitted by the czech republic is as high as 80%.
given that pollution knows no borders, it is essential to develop awareness of the need for cross-border cooperation and the implementation of joint projects with non-eu countries.
energy and the energy union are one of the 10 political priorities of the juncker commission with very ambitious goals: taking global leadership in the use of renewable energy, providing a fair deal for consumers and enabling energy efficiency.
the european union is currently the world's largest energy importer, importing an estimated 53% of all the energy it consumes at an annual cost of some €400 billion.
the commission should be able to assess the impact of the measures on the energy market and the energy market in the union in order to assess the impact of the measures on the energy market.
efficient energy management as well as clean energy are sectors of future growth and opportunities for smart investors.
the paris agreement, which commits the european union to reducing co2 emissions by at least 40% by 2030, is proof of this, while allowing for the modernisation of the economy, the creation of new jobs in the green sector thanks to increased use of renewable energy sources and growth for all european citizens.
algeria, the largest country in africa in terms of area, rich in resources and with a population of 40 million, needs to continuously develop relations in all fields, from energy and education to transport and security.
sustainable economic development and job creation, along with a general increase in respect for the rule of law and human rights in partner countries, need to be encouraged.
in order to protect sensitive marine ecosystems more effectively, depth limits of 800 metres have also been agreed with the aim of protecting the seabed ecosystem and, in general, vessels caught fishing in sensitive ecosystems at a depth of more than 400 metres will have to stop their fishing activities and move at least 5 nautical miles away.
over time, it has become clear that the original rules for deep-sea fisheries are not sufficiently restrictive and can no longer ensure the sustainable management of the stocks.
‒ i support this report which recognises the cultural and creative industries (ccis), traditionally based on cultural values and creativity, as a strategic sector for job creation and sustainable development.
it is necessary to improve the investment environment and to broaden the range of financial instruments available to micro-enterprises and smes in the cultural and creative sectors with new and innovative funding programmes.
the eu needs to increase investment in new sources that will guarantee smart, sustainable and inclusive development.
i would like to highlight sustainable development goal 5, which calls for the eradication of all forms of violence against women and girls in the private and public spheres.
the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection of the union's forests, in particular by assessing the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment.
uzbekistan should aim to move away from monoculture cotton and reduce its dependence on cotton exports by diversifying its economy, which could gradually alleviate the catastrophic environmental situation.
i believe that the agreement will allow the continuation of the policies of incentives for economic and social sustainable development.
the agreement also contains a chapter on trade and sustainable development, which includes ambitious provisions on labour and environmental protection and seeks to ensure predictable and stable environmental conditions for investors and entities from both sides.
‒ the trade agreement between the european union and its member states and colombia and peru provides for the possibility of accession of other andean community member states and in november 2015 the european parliament adopted a resolution on the accession of ecuador to the agreement, welcoming the conclusion of the earlier negotiations and encouraging its full entry into force to spur reform policies for economic and social sustainable development.
accession to the agreement brings a number of necessary economic and political benefits and guarantees a commitment to respect and implement international treaties and agreements in the field of labour rights and environmental protection.
in addition, the agreement contains a chapter on trade and sustainable development, which includes ambitious provisions on labour and environmental protection and aims to ensure predictable and stable conditions for investors.
the rapid and full entry into force of this agreement will enable ecuador to continue the economic and socially sustainable development of the country.
it also supports the implementation of a reformed eu fisheries management system in line with the objectives and basic principles of the new common fisheries policy, in particular the introduction of a landing obligation and mandatory measures to maintain stocks above levels that allow for the achievement of maximum sustainable yield.
however, following several railway packages that transformed the railway sector, the regulation is no longer in line with the existing legal environment and it implements discrimination between those railway undertakings included in the list and those subsequently added to the list.
‒ regulation 1192/69 is no longer compatible with the existing legal environment, since it was adopted at a time when rail transport in europe was developing mainly within national borders under the management of integrated undertakings.
the commission notes that following several railway packages that transformed the sector, the regulation is no longer in line with the existing legal environment.
as it has also experienced several railway packages that have transformed the sector and the regulation is no longer in line with the current legal environment, i support the commission's proposal to repeal it.
the proposed amendments set out clearer rules relating to the definition of public service obligations and their scope and will achieve the public transport policy objectives, in particular the financial sustainability of the provision of public passenger transport services, in an economic way.
i support the council's position on this subject, and because rail is the cleanest form of transport and we also protect our environment.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate change objectives and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate change objectives.
i support this proposal to contribute to the modernisation of port services and operations with a view to efficiency, better interconnection and the sustainable functioning of the trans-european transport network (ten-t).
‒ i supported the regulation establishing a framework for market access to port services and financial transparency of ports which seeks to contribute to the goal of a more efficient, interconnected and sustainable functioning of the trans-european transport network.
this regulation aims to contribute to a more efficient, interconnected and sustainable functioning of the ten-t by creating a framework that improves the performance of all ports and helps them to cope with changes in traffic and logistical requirements.
research covers production processes, the use and conservation of resources, environmental protection and occupational safety.
ensuring peace and stability in the union's environment is a key priority, as sustainable development is impossible without security.
‒ the eu today faces unprecedented internal and external challenges, including interstate conflicts, state fragmentation, terrorism, hybrid threats, cyber and energy insecurity and organised crime.
this year's report reflects the environment in which the eu is currently operating, including the brexit issue, relations with the us after the presidential elections, growing challenges on its eastern and southern borders, and particularly instability in the south due to extremist islamist groups.
furthermore, the eu needs to play a more active and effective role in conflict prevention and peacebuilding, in particular the importance of finding a sustainable solution to the conflict in syria.
‒ the european union faces a number of challenges including interstate conflicts, terrorism, hybrid and cyber threats, organised crime and climate change.
income uncertainty harms investment and innovation and may undermine economic sustainability, while excessive volatility benefits neither producers nor consumers.
‒ i support the european parliament's resolution on the cap tools to reduce price volatility in agricultural markets, which brings a more decisive and coherent policy with appropriate instruments at eu and national level, with a view to ensuring multifunctional and sustainable agricultural production throughout the union.
greater synergies between the cap and other eu policies are needed, particularly in the areas of energy, water supply, land use, biodiversity and ecosystems, and the development of both rural and island areas.
i believe that the long-term objectives of agricultural policy must be to ensure a fair standard of living for farming communities and primary producers, to seek to stabilise the market and to guarantee sustainable food production.
climate change events such as droughts and floods also contribute to price volatility.
the commission should also be able to provide information on the implementation of the union's policy on the environment, in particular on the implementation of the union's policy on the environment, the union's policy on the environment and the union's policy on the environment.
food independence and food security in the eu, as well as the development of a competitive and sustainable agricultural sector across the union that meets the needs of citizens, must remain the strategic objectives of the future cap and an adequate standard of living for farmers must be urgently guaranteed.
implementing policies not only at eu level but also at national level will ensure sustainable and multifunctional agriculture.
the case of xylelle fastidiose in italy has shown the consequences that such pests can have on plants, on the local economy and on biodiversity.
‒ caring for plant health is one of the main foundations for the development of sustainable and competitive agriculture, ensuring healthy and quality food, and protecting the environment in general.
the deadly bacterium introduced into the european agro-ecosystem, destroying olive groves, is transmitted by insect vectors, and its emergence and domestication on the salento peninsula in italy represent a phytosanitary risk of the highest degree also for olive growing in the republic of croatia.
the thalidomide case was one of the main reasons for the establishment of eu pharmaceutical legislation, which led to a strengthening of the regulatory environment for the development of medical devices.
the annual statistics for 2015 show that the majority of citizens seek parliament's assistance on issues related to the environment, justice, the internal market and fundamental rights.
the objective of this aviation strategy report is to enhance the competitiveness and sustainability of the whole eu air transport network.
the european aviation sector can fit into a competitive global environment and international agreements with china, japan, turkey, asean, mexico, the gulf members and armenia will greatly contribute to this goal.
the eu's bilateral aviation agreements promote cooperation to ensure a high level of civil safety and environmental acceptability, and safety and security must be at the heart of all efforts to enhance the performance and efficiency of the single european aviation market to ensure consumer confidence and the global competitiveness of the eu aviation sector.