we have worked on making digital markets work better by launching a sector inquiry into e-commerce; we have had cases concerning google and concerning qualcomm; we have acted to protect the internal market for energy with our cases involving gazprom and bulgaria energy holding; we have launched the first ever sector inquiry into state aid, looking into capacity mechanisms; and we continue our actions against cartels affecting products that consumers use every day.
we have reviewed major cross-border mergers as general electric’s acquisition of alstom in energy-related businesses.
we still need to continue to give priority to the sustainable management of this important stock.
this is necessary to ensure that compliance is there – the compliance of the union with its international obligations – and it is also there to maintain the eu’s credibility in sustainable fisheries management.
quotas work on the environmental side, but they don't seem to work on the socioeconomic side.
the mechanism for fishing quotas for bluefin tuna must be freed from the monopoly of large shipowners, favouring more sustainable fishing systems and small and medium-sized enterprises.
small-scale fishing, traditional techniques, old tuna fishing, all the sustainable systems that are disappearing, must be protected.
but we must combine ecology with economics, as an interesting commentator said in an italian newspaper a few days ago, because ecology, which seems to sell health to citizens, is actually bad for the health of citizens, because if we here followed the reasoning of those who today claim to be the best friend of the environment, the best champion of air quality, we would find ourselves with a huge contradiction.
it is now clear that the average nitrogen oxide emissions measured in the laboratory are three or four times lower than those measured on the road.
we cannot, in order to reduce carbon dioxide emissions, turn a blind eye to air pollution.
i am glad that the commissioner has taken the initiative to put forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers.
i am glad that the commissioner has taken the initiative to put forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers.
the agenda includes the report by kaja kallas and evelyne gebhardt, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy and the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on 'towards a digital single market act' (2015/2147 ((ini)) (a8-0371/2015).
europe can and must work to overcome the current situation which, in addition to penalizing small fishermen, risks undermining the sustainability of fisheries.
the measure frees the current mechanism from the monopoly of large shipowners and promotes more sustainable fishing systems such as those for small-scale fisheries.
for italy in particular, this will mean a 20% increase in the maximum allowable catch limits for the year 2016, significantly increasing the amount of fish caught without compromising the balance of our marine environment.
that is why i supported the amendment which challenges the current monopoly mechanism of large shipowners, which is intended to promote more sustainable fishing systems, such as those used by small-scale fisheries.
‒ with this report we have clearly expressed the european parliament's support for artisanal fishing and more artisanal and sustainable types of gear, such as traditional tuna traps, and we have clearly stated our intention to give european consumers quality european bluefin tuna, avoiding that the best products end up on foreign markets.
‒ i voted in favour of the ep legislative resolution on the multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean because i consider it a very important act in defence of sustainable fisheries, the interests of territories such as the south of italy and of economic operators who are often sacrificed to the needs of big business.
the s&d group has been fighting for new quota systems for bluefin tuna that eliminate the monopoly of large shipowners, promote sustainable fishing, and promote small-scale fishing.
it is now up to the member states to review their course and find a high point of synthesis between economy, employment protection and respect for the environment.
‒ i voted in favour of this report, but above all i voted in favour of my group's amendment against the monopoly of the big shipowners to protect small-scale fishing and traditional techniques, the old tuna nets: all sustainable systems that disappear.
finally, i welcome the adoption of the amendment calling on the member states to allocate tuna quotas more equitably, not only to the benefit of large shipowners but also to small fishermen who use sustainable fishing techniques.
in addition, the iccat recommendations take into account the specificities of the different tuna fishing gear, in particular traditional, more artisanal and sustainable gear.
such gears have a very low impact on marine ecosystems due to their low level of energy consumption and bycatch.
i supported parliament's first reading position that there is a need to pay greater attention to small-scale fishing and to the types of gear that are more sustainable and contribute to the achievement of the plan's objectives, because of their high level of selectivity and their low environmental impact.
‒ i voted today in favour of the proposal for a regulation on the multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean, with a view to ensuring a more sustainable development of the stock and introducing measures to support small-scale fishing.
that is why i voted in favour of an amendment calling on the member states to review the system for allocating fishing quotas for bluefin tuna in order to favour small-scale fishermen, who can ensure a more sustainable system than large shipowners.
the system in force until now has particularly penalized small-scale fishermen and has undermined the sustainability of fisheries.
the report stressed the importance of innovation, the creation of favourable conditions for smes, start-ups and micro-enterprises, sustainability and the promotion of high environmental standards for an effective and credible european competition policy.
in particular, the resolution stresses that competition policy must take account of the objectives of sustainable development and social cohesion, must support enterprises located in regions with temporary or permanent disadvantages and must grant greater flexibility to regions with serious economic problems, such as regions covered by the convergence and competitiveness objectives, and to island regions.
this report marks a new beginning, because as was also stressed during the investiture procedure of the new ec, competition policy 'will contribute, where necessary, to the programme for employment and growth, including in innovative areas such as the digital market, energy policy, financial services, industrial policy and the fight against fraud.
we share the view of president juncker: competition policy will contribute, where necessary, to the agenda for jobs and growth, including in areas such as the digital market, energy policy, financial services, industrial policy and the fight against tax evasion.
we europeans have a moral duty and a political opportunity to take what we represent in the world and, through the important and ambiguous instrument of intercultural dialogue, to put it into practice both with people coming to the union from other countries and with those who remain in areas of environmental crisis or conflict.
to this end, structural and sustainable support should be given to ngos, institutions dealing with children and young people, training institutions, all relevant organisations and initiatives at local level.
promoting the eu's core values also requires increased cooperation between international institutions, in particular between the union, its member states and international organisations such as the united nations and its agencies, and increased structural and sustainable support to ngos, organisations working with children and young people, training institutions and all organisations concerned.
i agree with the report almost entirely: it is important to note that intercultural and interreligious dialogue and education are fundamental elements for the creation of a climate of peace and important tools for conflict management.
this risk is less abstract than one might think, if leading economists are now predicting an "epidemic" in the energy sector due to the possible failure of shale oil companies and if the monetary authorities of the main countries do not take proactive steps.
initiatives to improve sme financing should be extended to start-ups, micro and medium-caps in order to promote stable and sustainable growth and the creation of new jobs.
the creation of a capital markets union also requires clearer and more effective, but also more transparent and coherent legislation, which is capable of creating a more favourable investment environment, including the creation of new channels of access to credit, which can benefit in particular small and medium-sized enterprises and start-ups.
it will not solve the problem of financing smes, which need stable, sustainable and long-term sources of credit.
it will therefore not solve the problem of financing smes which need stable, sustainable and long-term sources of credit.
the european union must promote a holistic approach to women's entrepreneurship, combating gender stereotypes, fostering the creation of an environment that develops women's entrepreneurial potential and facilitating access to finance.
‒ promoting entrepreneurship is a key driver of employment, economic growth, development and innovation, a top priority of the european union and at the heart of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
one of the reasons why i voted in favour is the call for the commission to monitor the states to create an environment favourable to the development of women's enterprise.
‒ in its strategies to boost the economy and create new jobs, the european union should not overlook two key factors: to provide access to more entrepreneurs and adopt a strategy for smart and sustainable growth.
this is clearly a cultural problem which the european union must take up and try to remedy: this is why we call for a further effort both in terms of funding (increased visibility of entrepreneurship funding and easier access to funding for women entrepreneurs in innovative and sustainable sectors where there is a greater presence of men) and in a broader sense, by providing a holistic approach to female entrepreneurship, aimed at encouraging and supporting women in choosing a career as entrepreneurs, including by contributing to the creation of an environment that allows women to fully realize their potential by ensuring work-life balance, access to childcare facilities and calibrated training.
the identification of measures aimed at achieving a better balance between family and work life, as well as the elimination of the prejudices that persist in terms of access to credit, would help to achieve a wider inclusion of women in the business environment.
the overcoming of certain old ideologies which relegate the role of women to that of housewives is essential to creating an entrepreneurial environment where men and women have the same career opportunities and fulfilment in terms of work and family.
an ageing europe cannot afford to 'waste' the talents and skills of its young people and in this respect i hope that the dutch presidency will do its utmost to support young people and future generations.
the legislator's action must be carried out on three fronts: accessibility, to improve access to digital goods and services for consumers and businesses across europe; environmental, to create a favourable environment for the development of digital networks and innovative services; the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules.
our main amendments in the itre-imco procedure concerned the strengthening of the concept of digital citizenship, actions to combat the digital divide, the coordination of public and private investment, the strengthening of fundamental rights guarantees, specific opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises, attention to workers' rights and environmental standards when facilitating cross-border activities, and the multidimensional care of citizen trust.
in particular, we call on the commission and the member states to take all the necessary steps to: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new rules on the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new rules on the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
it can also be used for energy and resource savings, improved efficiency and longer-lasting product performance in a circular economy.
the digital single market strategy is structured in three parts: improving access to digital goods and services for consumers and businesses across europe; to create a favourable environment and a level playing field for the development of digital networks and innovative services; maximising the growth potential of the digital economy.
the measures proposed in this connection include: the creation of an appropriate legal basis to enable europol to carry out its activities to counter illegal content on the internet; special measures to combat the sexual exploitation of children online as well as all measures necessary to make the internet a safe environment for children as well; and working with stakeholders to promote education and awareness campaigns.
you will also have noticed that the commission has been able to launch the security agenda, the energy agenda, all the actions that necessarily follow from the establishment of the digital market and so on.
it is also the role of the european union to invest in good stories, making them possible, and, once they do happen, making them sustainable, making them last and making them work, which is not something that we can ever take for granted.
this is clearly a very ambitious calendar, a very ambitious agenda, but it is clear that we cannot afford to waste time and we have to set high objectives in order to have some hope that the process starts.
confidence-building measures in particular have to be implemented immediately to create a favourable environment for the talks, and to guarantee that the process is credible and delivers to the syrian people immediately.
i think there are two essential conditions: i must overcome and work to overcome the misgivings that exist between the various groups that make up the anti-daesh faction and then, i think, most importantly, spread the positive climate that the iran deal has thrown ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after so much ambiguity on the part of many of the powers involved, 400 000 dead, 6.5 million refugees, the negotiating table that so many of us had hoped for has finally been set up.
first of all, we want rapid approval of public country-by-country reporting and on social europe and environmental sustainability.
yes, time, the one that requires us to act quickly to stop climate change.
one for a circular economy and one for reducing co2 emissions.
fiscal consolidation must be sustainable and not undermine recovery, and countries with more fiscal space must use it.
i agree with him: it is about quality of legislation, not quantity of legislation, and with him and others we will work on the digital single market, the capital markets and the energy union.
that is a clear given, to address the common challenges that europe faces – the economy, climate, energy, migration and, at the same time, security.
the challenge will be to feed 9 billion people globally in 2050. climate policy, smart agriculture, combating food and water waste are all important and prominent issues for the netherlands presidency programme.
the objective of innovation and sustainability in agriculture, in the simplification of the cap, which is one of the priorities of any presidency that wants to combat food waste and ensure food security, must therefore be challenged and achieved.
the aim is to simplify and technically update the rules on products which, on our market, are linked to the safe use of gas and the rational use of energy.
i agree with the amendments which are being introduced to improve consumer safety, particularly as regards the risk of carbon monoxide poisoning, which is the main cause of death in this sector.
a series of technical measures which serve to further increase the safety of people, promote a more rational and efficient use of energy and at the same time guarantee fair conditions of competition for european businesses.
i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the change in the legal instrument from a directive to a regulation is in line with the general political commitment to work towards better regulation and simplification of the regulatory environment.
in voting in favour of this report, i also support the wish for greater protection of the environment and the health of citizens.
the proposal also appears to be very consistent with european environmental and consumer protection policies.
the new regulation appears to be open to compliance with and implementation of energy efficiency legislation.
it has also contributed to the completion and functioning of the single market by harmonising the conditions for the placing on the market and/or putting into service of gas appliances falling within its scope with regard to the safety and energy-saving risks of gas.
as i am a member of the envi and itre committees, i very much welcome the new provisions and amendments proposed by the rapporteur, which are part of the union's energy policy.
the new regulation will ensure that new appliances placed on the european market will further increase the safety and protection of citizens and ensure the rational use of energy.
i am also pleased that the report refers to carbon monoxide poisoning as one of the many problems associated with the use of gas appliances, and not as the only problem to be found, as was originally intended.
i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the change in the legal instrument from a directive to a regulation is in line with the general political commitment to work towards better regulation and simplification of the regulatory environment.
the commission is empowered to adopt delegated acts in order to grant an applicant state the special incentive arrangement for sustainable development and good governance, under which no import duties are applied for more than 6000 tariff lines from beneficiary countries.
this is a much more restrictive position than that laid down in part 3 of annex i to the delegated regulation submitted by the commission, which provides that 30% of the energy supplied by infant foods may come from sugar.
since the who recommends limiting sugar intake to less than 10% of total energy intake during early childhood, we had no choice but to reject the commission's proposal that sugars could continue to account for up to 30% of the calorie intake of baby food.
furthermore, part 3 of annex i to the delegated regulation provides that 30% of the energy provided by infant formulae may come from sugar.
the who recommends limiting sugar to less than 10% of total energy intake, but according to the european commission's proposal sugars could continue to provide up to 30% of calories in baby food.
i believe that sugar intake of 10% or more is a negative health determinant, since excessive energy and caloric intake is the definite cause of many metabolic diseases, the first of which is obesity.
‒ part three of annex i to regulation (eu) no 609/2013 on foods for infants and young children provides that 30% of the energy provided by foods for young children may come from sugar.
the who recommends limiting sugar intake to less than 10% of total energy consumption, making it clear that adhering to the 5% limit would offer greater guarantees to prevent the onset of certain diseases.
it is disappointing, for example, that the word decarbonisation disappears: our goal should be to stop emitting, but instead we're left with a definition that's a little ambiguous because it says to strike a balance between anthropogenic emissions and removals through greenhouse gas sources.
we are talking about negative emissions technology, which would of course offset the positive emissions that are obviously left over.
it is a system which we believe is not working, it has failed to stimulate investment in new technologies to reduce emissions and this has led to fraud and financial speculation.
the establishment of a global market, as called for in the paris agreement, is even more worrying because of the delay it would cause in the implementation of other policies which have had a more significant impact on the eu than the ets, such as incentive tariffs for renewable sources and energy saving and efficiency measures.
particularly on the implementation of the dcfta, we will build on current support programmes to improve the business climate, provide support to small and medium-sized enterprises, and help ukraine find new markets.
the government has also adopted a law on the natural gas market, which aims at bringing the gas sector of ukraine into line with the eu third energy package.
the country is in great need of stable leadership, with the determination and energy required to address a number of problematic issues, including high-level corruption.
this should ensure a more predictable business environment, leading to much-needed growth and jobs.
it should stimulate kosovo’s progress in the area of transport and energy as it foresees the gradual integration into europe’s energy markets and the development of quality infrastructure.
under its terms, kosovo commits itself to a visible and sustainable improvement in relations with serbia.
it is enough to think of the increase in executions, the attacks on international workers and activists, the arrests of political opponents, the very serious violations against migrants at all stages of their journey, the effects of climate change, which are covered in this resolution.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union, australia and new zealand share democratic values and interests and have the same views on global issues of the utmost importance, such as human rights, security, development and environmental protection.
the agreement is an important contribution to stability and prosperity in the region and will help to undertake the necessary reforms that create the conditions for stable and sustainable growth, to implement the necessary reforms and to create trade and investment opportunities.
‒ i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community, of the one part, and kosovo, of the other part.
the agreement establishes contractual relations involving enhanced political dialogue, closer trade integration and new forms of cooperation in the fields of human rights, education, the environment, energy, justice and home affairs, and aims to create a free trade area.
‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation concerning the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the stabilisation agreement (saa) between the european union and the european atomic energy community, of the one part, and kosovo, of the other part.
i also believe that the saa sets important conditions for closer cooperation between the eu and the republic of kosovo in the fields of education, the environment, culture and the fight against organised crime, and i hope that this cooperation will develop, mature over time and cover wider and different areas of action.
‒ in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community, of the one part, and kosovo, of the other part.
it will also be able to create cooperation in a wide range of areas, ranging from education to employment and energy, from the environment to justice and home affairs.
it covers a number of areas, such as education, energy, the environment, justice and home affairs.
‒ today i voted in favour of the proposal to appoint members of the committee of inquiry into the measurement of emissions from the automotive sector.
following the emissions scandals involving some european car manufacturers, the european parliament decided to carry out an inquiry to identify shortcomings and omissions in the application of eu emissions legislation.
‒ i voted in favour of the nomination of the proposed members of the committee of inquiry into the measurement of emissions from the automotive sector set up by the european parliament at its plenary session last december.
‒ following the discovery in the us that the volkswagen group used software to reduce nox emissions during testing, we voted a resolution last october calling for a thorough investigation into the role and responsibilities of the european commission and the member states, asking them to disclose what they knew about these violations and what actions were taken subsequently.
i therefore voted with the whole m5s europe delegation in favour of the appointment of the members of the committee of inquiry into the measurement of emissions from the automotive sector.
‒ i voted in favour of the appointment of the members of the committee of inquiry into the measurement of emissions from the motor vehicle sector.
‒ the issue of emissions in the automotive sector leaves me, as a politician, with a big doubt: is it fraud, how will the courts find out, or were the rules too permissive?
‒ i voted in favour of appointing the members of the committee of inquiry into the measurement of emissions from the automotive sector, which will present a first report within six months and a final report within 12 months of the start of its work.
‒ air pollution, as we know, is a global problem today and is a growing phenomenon, especially in large urban areas.
as a member of the envi parliamentary committee and as a person who is sensitive to environmental issues, i wish all the members of this committee a good job so that you can make continuous improvements in this area.
the scandal is that member states, without opposition from the commission, have introduced correction factors which make it legal to double emissions until 2018 and 1.5 times the limits for the following years.
the italian government has even proposed to legalize emissions at least 300% above the limits.
the european union must work to keep the political will alive within these countries and to foster effective coordination within each of the partner governments in order to build a national consensus in favour of the measures needed to ensure real and sustainable transformation.
europe's efforts should be directed in particular towards developing the social dimension of the partnership, and promoting compliance with the commitments made by these countries on labour and the environment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new law on the protection of the environment.
seventy years after the birth of the un system, in a world torn by war, threatened by global warming, and hit by the largest migration phenomenon since the second world war, the great theme of respect for human rights remains a priority.
not only does it not propose any concrete solutions to the issues raised, but it is completely unbalanced in favour of protecting immigrants, even calling for the introduction of the category of "climate migrants" among the categories to be protected.
it notes the introduction of the so-called climate migrant category among the categories to be protected.
for several months now, we have been witnessing the worst humanitarian crisis since world war ii, with a growing number of people forced to leave their homes due to persecution, armed conflict and climate change.
the 2014 petition rate is just under 30%, with a high level of interest in the areas of environment, fundamental rights, health, justice and the internal market.
while the number of unsuccessful petitions also remains high, it is important to note that citizens' attention seems to be focused mainly on issues of justice, the environment, fundamental rights and the internal market.
the most frequently raised issues were justice, the environment, the internal market, fundamental rights and health.
the countries with fiscal space must use it and the fiscal adjustment of those with less space must continue at a sustainable pace, applying all the rules of the stability pact, including the flexibility it contains.
if, therefore, there is a recovery in the euro economy, the great fragility of its fundamentals leaves ample room for intervention for the political commitment of states and institutions to implement sustainable and socially balanced structural reforms.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for the opinion adopted unanimously in the itre committee, where we supported both the general approach of the reding report - transparency, accountability and protection of public services - and the specific needs of telecommunications and energy, i want to explain why parliament is taking this action.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 11 december this year the european union will have to express a clear, reasoned and sustainable position on the granting of market economy status to china.
the one that some of you have been referring to that talks about millions and millions of jobs is simply scientifically not sustainable because it starts from the assumption that all our trade with china would be under anti-dumping and hence affected, whereas, as i said, it is only 1.38% of our trade with china that is subject to anti-dumping duties.
for the five star movement, not only is there no obligation to recognise china as a market economy, which it is not, but a decision to do so would be a real suicide for the european economy, which would obviously be exposed to unsustainable competition from chinese products, based on artificially low or sub-cost prices, with enormous distortions in the internal market and dramatic repercussions on employment and even on our already under pressure social and environmental standards.
sustainability and human rights are indeed key to all our trade agreements.
our african partners in the west african agreement were not ready to go as far as we would have wanted them when it comes to sustainable development formulas: this is under negotiation.
but anyway we will, as i said in my introduction, pay specific attention to implementing, monitoring and making sure that we follow up on labour, environmental and human rights in the different forums that we are creating here, and the european parliament has a very important role to play here.
the epas, if properly implemented, are indeed a great opportunity to promote sustainable growth and respect for human rights through the tools typical of trade agreements.
the problem is that it is a bitter vote because, despite the support for this report, despite the positive vote, we will not be able to achieve the objectives that we have in the biodiversity strategy for 2020. the medium-term ratio is disastrous and we are nowhere near any of the six targets we are trying to target for 2020. so despite our efforts, the situation remains disastrous and it is depressing to see how little member states are doing to protect biodiversity and to implement the rules that could protect it and protect it and bring wealth, also as a result of this protection.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the loss of biodiversity is mainly due to human causes such as pollution, land use and climate change.
biodiversity has enormous socioeconomic value as it creates 4.5 million jobs in the natura 2000 network.
we need to engage all the stakeholders, as we do in the biodiversity, hunting and rural intergroup, where we work together with researchers, farmers, foresters, hunters and parks to find common solutions.
i have to say, madam president, in this report we ask ourselves whether our european approach to the conservation and promotion of biodiversity is sensible and sufficient.
no matter how many beavers, how many wolves and how many bears roam our waters and our forests, they are worth protecting, regardless of whether they actually contribute to biodiversity.
we must balance the sensible conservation of biodiversity, mountain farming and the safety of the citizens, otherwise the bear and the wolf will come and the miner will go.
this will not be a great step forward for biodiversity, especially in the alps.
‒ in 1979, the eu ratified the convention on transboundary air pollution by heavy metals, the first binding instrument in the field.
the convention, which regulates the control and subsequent reduction of pollution from industrial sources or the incineration of waste, was subsequently extended by eight protocols, the last of which was in 1998. the aarhus protocol has tightened the rules on emissions of certain metals, such as lead, cadmium and mercury, forcing member states to make significant reductions in their emissions.
i voted in favour of the amendments because i think they are appropriate and will ensure better protection of the environment and human health.
‒ air pollution is one of the greatest threats to human health and the environment.
since the 1970s, the international community has decided to tackle the problem by creating the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution in 1979, which was later extended by several protocols.
in 1998, the protocol on heavy metals, which the community acceded to in 2001, specified the measures needed to limit and control emissions of lead, cadmium and mercury.
the proposed amendments to the 1998 aarhus protocol aim to reduce and better control both emissions of 'heavy metals' and 'persistent organic pollutants'.
i believe that it is essential to strengthen the existing legislation, which will certainly bring greater protection for both the environment and the health of our citizens.
‒ the fight against air pollution knows no national borders and must therefore be tackled globally.
in this sense, the 1979 convention, subsequently extended by eight protocols, established a legally binding framework to reduce the risks to the environment and human health caused by air pollution.
the 1998 aarhus protocol, which the european union has transposed, regulates emissions from industrial sources, combustion processes and the incineration of waste.
the protocol has recently been reviewed and updated, setting stricter limits for emissions of certain dusts and establishing annual national emission registers for substances including lead, cadmium and mercury.
i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution by heavy metals and the protocols thereto are fundamental documents for the protection of the environment and human health and that it is therefore the union's responsibility to ensure their full implementation.
‒ the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution aims to protect the human environment from air pollution.
it has been known since 1972 that air pollutants can be transported thousands of kilometres before they are deposited, which highlighted the need to address the problems caused by air pollution at international level as early as 1979, with the signing of the convention on transboundary air pollution which entered into force in 1983. it establishes a common framework for controlling and reducing the harm caused by transboundary air pollution to human health and the environment.
the european parliament is due to vote today on the commission's proposal to update the 1998 protocol to reduce and control anthropogenic emissions of lead (pb), cadmium (cd) and mercury (hg) into the atmosphere: the parties are required to reduce their total annual emissions of these three metals to levels below 1990 levels and emission limit values are defined for certain large fixed sources, as well as requiring states to apply best available techniques (bat).
it is important to support all efforts to curb air pollution and protect the health of our citizens.
‒ the 1998 aarhus protocol on persistent organic pollutants aims to control, reduce or eliminate discharges, emissions and releases of persistent organic pollutants (dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (ddt), hexachlorocyclohexane (hch), polychlorinated biphenyls (pcbs), polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (pahs), dioxins/furans (pcdd/pcdf) and hexachlorobenzene (hcb)).
decisions 2009/1 and 2009/2 include seven new substances, update the implementation obligations for a number of substances, update the limitations on emissions of pcdd/pcdfs from different sources and add pcbs to the list of substances subject to annual emission limitations and reporting obligations.
‒ recommendation on the draft council decision on the acceptance of the amendments to the 1998 protocol to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution concerning heavy metals.
the convention on air pollution is the first legally binding international instrument in this field, as it has established a framework for controlling and reducing the damage caused to the human environment by the spread of pollutants.
the accession of the european community to the latter protocol was approved in april 2001, but the text has been reviewed in terms of the adequacy and effectiveness of the obligations provided for, in particular by setting stricter limit values for dust emissions from some large fixed sources, as well as flexible transitional provisions for the benefit of the parties acceding by the end of 2019. the recommendation accepts these amendments and that is why i voted in favour of it.
‒ i voted in favour of ratifying the amendments to the aarhus protocol on heavy metals, which i believe will achieve a higher level of protection of health and the environment.
the aim of these amendments is to reduce and control anthropogenic emissions of a number of heavy metals into the atmosphere, with particular regard to emissions from industrial sources, combustion processes and waste incineration.
the amendments also provide that the protocol in question should set stricter limit values for dust emissions from certain large fixed sources.
‒ i decided to vote in favour of the measure because i believe that its ratification will be a decisive step towards ever-increasing protection of public health and the environment from the possible harm of crossborder pollution.
this protocol regulates the reduction and control of emissions of lead, cadmium and mercury, heavy metals which are easily liable to cross-border air pollution.
the protocol requires the parties to reduce the total annual amount of emissions of these heavy metals.
‒ considering that the 1998 protocol to the convention in question responds to the need to tackle the problem of air pollution, i have decided to vote in favour of the recommendation concerning the draft council resolution amending the said protocol.
‒ the 1998 protocol to the 1979 convention aims to reduce and control emissions of seven new substances, including emissions of lead (pb), cadmium (cd) and mercury (hg) into the atmosphere.
the parties are required to reduce their total annual emissions of these three metals to levels below 1990 levels.
studies on air pollutants in the 1970s already highlighted the need to address the problems caused by air pollution.
‒ the european parliament resolution, for which i voted in favour, approves the amendments to the protocol on heavy metals to the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution.
the proposed amendments set stricter limits on transboundary emissions than those set out in the protocol to the convention in order to better prevent air pollution and its effects on human health.
‒ the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution has been an important step forward in protecting human health and the environment, especially with regard to the threats from air pollution.
i therefore vote in favour of this measure in order to give a fresh impetus to the european union's commitment to environmental issues.
the unece convention on transboundary air pollution aims to limit and prevent air pollution and its adverse effects on human health and the environment.
the aarhus protocol (1998) and its subsequent amendments have further extended the scope of the convention; it has the function of reducing and controlling emissions of lead, cadmium and mercury into the atmosphere.
in this connection, there is an obligation on farms to apply the best available techniques to reduce emissions to air, water and soil, as well as the production of waste.
‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the acceptance of the amendments to the 1998 protocol to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution concerning heavy metals.
the 1979 convention on transboundary air pollution is one of the first legally binding international instruments to limit, gradually reduce and prevent air pollution and its adverse effects on human health and the environment.
the convention on air pollution has been extended by eight protocols, including the 1998 aarhus protocol on heavy metals.
the ratification of the amendments to this protocol will ensure greater protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution.
‒ the unece convention on transboundary air pollution aims to limit and prevent air pollution and its adverse effects on human health and the environment.
the aarhus protocol and its subsequent amendments have further extended the scope of the convention by reducing and controlling emissions of lead, cadmium and mercury into the atmosphere.
i have decided to vote in favour of the council decision because i consider it a decisive step towards increasing protection of public health and the environment from the possible damage of pollution.
‒ air pollution was already the subject of a study in 1972. several studies showed that air pollutants could be transported thousands of kilometres before being deposited, which highlighted the need to address this problem at international level.
the aarhus protocol on heavy metals was established with the aim of reducing and controlling anthropogenic emissions.
over the years, the convention has been expanded to define specific measures that parties must take to reduce air pollution emissions.
as a member of the envi parliamentary committee and being sensitive to environmental issues, i am voting in favour of ratifying this convention, certain that it will be an important step forward towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution.
‒ the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution was created to protect the environment and public health.
it establishes a framework for controlling and reducing the harm caused by transboundary air pollution to human health and the environment.
over the years, the convention has been expanded by eight protocols, which define specific measures that the parties must take to reduce emissions of air pollutants.
the 1998 aarhus protocol on heavy metals aims to reduce emissions from industrial sources, combustion processes and waste incineration.
‒ with today's vote, parliament transposes into eu law the amendments to the 1998 aarhus protocol to the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution concerning lead, cadmium and mercury.
the convention, signed in 1979, establishes a framework for controlling and reducing the harm caused by transboundary air pollution to human health and the environment.
the 1998 amendments to the protocol set stricter limit values for dust emissions from industrial sources, combustion processes and waste incineration.
i voted in favour of the recommendation because ratification of these amendments will be an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution.
it has significantly reduced emissions from industry, energy production, transport and waste incineration by using the best available technologies and reducing leaded petrol and mercury in alkaline batteries and measuring instruments.
in particular, stricter limits are imposed for dust emissions from certain large fixed sources and new parties are encouraged to accede to the amended protocol by 2019, especially in eastern and south-eastern europe.
we hope that the parties will ratify decision 2012/5 as soon as possible and commit to fostering the technological improvement necessary to protect the health of citizens and the environment from transboundary air pollution.
we will also ensure that the adaptation to the protocol in both eastern and western europe is accompanied by transitional measures to make industrial and energy production, transport and waste incineration more sustainable.
‒ the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution aims to protect the human environment from air pollution.
several studies between 1972 and 1977 had shown that air pollutants could be transported thousands of kilometres before being deposited, which highlighted the need to address the problems caused by air pollution at international level.
the convention, which was signed in 1979 and entered into force in 1983, was the first legally binding international instrument adopted in this field: it establishes a framework for controlling and reducing the harm caused by transboundary air pollution to human health and the environment.
the amended protocol sets more stringent limit values for dust emissions from certain large fixed sources.
the amendments are fully consistent with existing eu legislation and their ratification will be an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution.
‒ studies conducted in the 1970s showed that air pollutants can be transported thousands of kilometres, causing enormous damage to human health and the environment.
the 1979 convention on transboundary air pollution sought to combat this phenomenon by developing a framework for pollution reduction and control.
for these reasons i voted in favour of the amendments which strengthen prevention policies and lay down additional parameters and obligations, so as to protect not only the environment but also the health of all citizens in an efficient way.
‒ the 1998 aarhus protocol on persistent organic pollutants was a major step forward in protecting the environment and the health of citizens.
the restrictions on the use of dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (ddt), hexachlorocyclohexanes (hch) and polychlorinated biphenyls (pcbs) were linked to the obligation to use the best available techniques and to properly dispose of and transport pollutants that have become waste.
the proposed amendments to the 1998 aarhus protocol aim to reduce and better control both emissions of 'heavy metals' and 'persistent organic pollutants'.
i believe that it is essential to strengthen the existing legislation, which will certainly bring greater protection for both the environment and the health of our citizens.
‒ the 1998 aarhus protocol to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution aims to control emissions, spills and discharges of persistent organic pollutants, with action to reduce the use of ddt and other harmful substances.
i therefore voted in favour of this report, which approves the amendments and calls for stronger protection of human health and the environment.
i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution from persistent organic pollutants and the protocols thereto are fundamental documents for the protection of the environment and human health and that it is therefore the union's responsibility to ensure their full implementation.
‒ since 1972, we have known that air pollutants are transported thousands of kilometres before they are deposited, which highlighted the need to address the problems caused by air pollution at international level as early as 1979, with the signing of the convention on transboundary air pollution, which entered into force in 1983. it establishes a common framework for controlling and reducing the harm caused by transboundary air pollution to human health and the environment.
the european parliament is today expected to support the commission's proposal to update the 1998 protocol to reduce and control anthropogenic emissions of dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (ddt), hexachlorocyclodexane (hch) and polychlorinated biphenyls (pcbs) and to reduce the total annual emissions of aromatic polycyclic hydrocarbons (pahs), dioxins/furans (pcdd/pcdf) and hexachlorobenzene (hcb) into the atmosphere: the parties are required to reduce their total annual emissions of these three metals to levels below 1990 levels and emission limit values are defined for certain large fixed sources, as well as requiring states to apply best available techniques (bat).
it is important to support all efforts to curb air pollution and protect the health of our citizens.
‒ the 1998 aarhus protocol on persistent organic pollutants aims to control, reduce or eliminate discharges, emissions and releases of persistent organic pollutants (dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (ddt), hexachlorocyclohexane (hch), polychlorinated biphenyls (pcbs), polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (pahs), dioxins/furans (pcdd/pcdf) and hexachlorobenzene (hcb)).
decisions 2009/1 and 2009/2 include seven new substances, update the implementation obligations for a number of substances, update the limitations on emissions of pcdd/pcdfs from different sources and add pcbs to the list of substances subject to annual emission limitations and reporting obligations.
‒ today i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the acceptance of amendments to the 1998 protocol to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution on persistent organic pollutants.
the problem of long-range transboundary air pollution has been addressed at international level by the convention signed in 1979 and entered into force in 1983. over the years, it has been extended by eight protocols, such as the 1998 protocol on persistent organic pollutants, which was established with the aim of controlling, reducing or eliminating discharges, emissions and spills of persistent organic pollutants, limiting the use of many substances compared to the pre-1990 period.
‒ the amendments to the protocol to the convention on long-range air pollution include the inclusion of as many as seven new persistent pollutants, update the implementation obligations and limitations of total annual emissions of dioxins/furans (pcdd/f) from different sources, and provide for the addition of polychlorinated biphenyls (pcbs) to the list of substances subject to annual emission limitations.
this is therefore an important step towards an international approach to the problems caused by air pollution and i voted in favour of ratifying these amendments with great conviction.
‒ i voted in favour of the amendments because i believe that the problems caused by air pollution must be tackled at european level.
the aarhus protocol on persistent organic pollutants aims to control and reduce discharges and emissions of these substances.
this vote marks important steps towards protecting the environment and combating pollution, fundamental objectives which the european union must pursue at supranational and national level.
‒ since the 1970s, studies have been conducted on the environmental and human health hazards of the release of persistent organic pollutants into the atmosphere.
the amendments will enable eu citizens to live in an increasingly healthy environment, and for these reasons i have decided to vote in favour.
‒ the european parliament resolution, which i voted for, approves the amendments to the protocol to the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution on persistent organic pollutants.
the proposed amendments set stricter limits on transboundary emissions than those set out in the protocol to the convention in order to better prevent air pollution and its effects on human health.
the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution aims to protect the human environment from air pollution.
it establishes a framework for controlling and reducing the harm caused by transboundary air pollution to human health and the environment.
the amended protocol includes seven new substances, updates the implementation obligations for a number of substances, updates the limitations on emissions of pcdd/pcdfs from different sources and adds pcbs to the list of substances subject to annual emission limitations and reporting obligations, ensuring a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution.
the 1998 aarhus protocol further extends the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution to include persistent organic pollutants.
it therefore aims to control, reduce or eliminate discharges, emissions and spills of persistent organic pollutants.
the amended protocol includes seven new substances, updates the limits on emissions of pcdd/pcdfs and adds pcbs to the list of substances subject to annual emission limits and reporting obligations.
‒ the 1998 aarhus protocol further extends the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution to include persistent organic pollutants and aims to control and reduce discharges and emissions of these substances.
i voted in favour of this so that we can move forward in the direction of protecting the environment and combating pollution, which are fundamental objectives which the european union must pursue.
‒ in 1983, the convention on air pollution came into force, the first legally binding international instrument in this field.
the aarhus protocol on persistent organic pollutants was subsequently established in 1998 with the aim of controlling, reducing or eliminating discharges, emissions and spills of these pollutants.
‒ the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution, signed in 1979 and entered into force in 1983, aims to protect the human environment from air pollution and is the first legally binding international instrument adopted in this field.
it establishes a framework for controlling and reducing the harm caused by transboundary air pollution to human health and the environment.
over the years, the convention has been expanded by eight protocols, which define specific measures that the parties must take to reduce emissions of air pollutants.
the 1998 aarhus protocol on persistent organic pollutants aims to control, reduce or eliminate discharges, emissions and spills of persistent organic pollutants.
the amended protocol includes seven new substances, updates the implementation obligations for a number of substances, updates the limitations on emissions of dioxins/furans from different sources and adds polychlorinated biphenyls to the list of substances subject to annual emission limitations and reporting obligations.
i consider that the amendments to the amendments to the protocol (08648/2015 add 1) are fully consistent with the existing eu legislation and constitute an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution.
‒ with today's vote, parliament is transposing into eu law the amendments to the 1998 aarhus protocol to the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution on persistent organic pollutants.
the convention, signed in 1979, establishes a framework for controlling and reducing the harm caused by transboundary air pollution to human health and the environment.
the amendments to the 1998 protocol include seven new pollutants, update the implementation obligations for a number of substances, update the limitations on emissions of dioxins/furans from different sources and add polychlorinated biphenyls to the list of substances subject to annual emission limitations and reporting obligations.
i voted in favour of the recommendation because ratification of these amendments will be an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution.
we recognise that this protocol has been an important tool in countering acidification, eutrophication and ground-level ozone, providing for the first time national emission limits for ddt, hch and pcbs and commitments to reduce ipa, pcdd/pcdf and hcp through best available technologies (bat).
this is a necessary and important step forward in protecting the health of citizens and the environment from transboundary air pollution.
we hope that the parties will ratify decisions 2009/1 and 2009/2 as soon as possible and commit themselves to promoting the technological improvement necessary to protect the health of citizens and the environment.
bachelet, on behalf of the european union, on the implementation of the council decision of 28 june 2014 on the conclusion of the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of moldova, of the other part (oj l 295, 30.10.2014, p. my vote is in favour.
the establishment of a european platform, through the exchange of information and the sharing of good practices, can help to discourage the occurrence of the phenomenon of undeclared work, to regularize the situation of millions of european workers, ensuring them access to the necessary services, and to define a sustainable fiscal stabilisation.
in this climate, in which the labour market sector is probably the most affected, the data tell us of a submerged labour economy in europe of over 18%, which is often associated with other worrying phenomena that make the situation of our workers even more worrying, such as social dumping, the complete absence of guarantees and rights, and unlikely working conditions.
‒ underground work is a problem affecting european economies with negative repercussions on the production system and the sustainability of social security systems in the member states.
employment of employees without prior notification of the establishment of the employment relationship by the employer fosters unfair competition between undertakings and does not promote a climate of free and equal competition.
for governments, underground work threatens tax revenues by putting the sustainability of social protection systems to the test.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 2015 was a year of very high environmental awareness.
2015 was the year of cop21, with the world confronting the need for greater protection of the environment and nature.
the debate must now be followed by a concrete commitment, because it seems that the strategy for the protection of biodiversity has unfortunately failed.
i appreciate the report by my colleague, who is profoundly aware that biodiversity is a resource, a resource which - i would add - is also economic, but above all social wealth.
i particularly stress the need to protect marine biodiversity and to integrate nature conservation objectives into all eu policies.
there can be no blue growth without protecting the biodiversity of our seas.
achieving these goals also means boosting growth through support for universities and the study of ecosystem conservation, without which the world will be poorer and our health more compromised.
‒ the protection of biodiversity is a fundamental strategy of the european union, but even more so is our duty to the future generations who will take our place.
the union's ecosystems are at risk and this requires a more effective integration of biodiversity into other sectoral policies, accompanied by a more targeted use of existing financial instruments.
habitat destruction, changes in consumption patterns and the impact of human activities on the environment pose serious threats to both life and the planet's economy.
the european union adopted a biodiversity strategy in 2011 which has so far failed to deliver the expected results.
the demesmaeker report, which i supported with my vote, has effectively highlighted how full implementation and effective funding are the fundamental prerequisites for the success of the union's biodiversity strategy.
the development of a trans-european network for green infrastructure, the adoption of sustainable solutions for agriculture and the commitment to reduce marine pollution are some of the first measures that must be put into practice together with a commitment to halt the loss of biodiversity also outside protected natural areas.
‒ while the demesmaeker report proposes solutions that at first sight seem concrete in terms of biodiversity protection, i do not share the underlying approach that permeates it.
calling for 'more europe' in this area too is a contradiction, as the eu's own policies are promoting the loss of biodiversity, as they are based on standardisation and 'free movement' on the largest scale, on a multinational scale rather than on the protection of local territories and biodiversity.
‒ the large participation in the commission's public consultation on the adequacy of nature protection directives demonstrates the awareness of european citizens of the importance of biodiversity.
the protection of biodiversity is also a matter of concern for the well-being of all mankind and represents an important socioeconomic value.
its protection provides real opportunities for development and employment, while guiding us towards sustainable growth, in line with our objectives and international commitments, in the interests of present and future generations.
in line with this, i support this report which, in addition to highlighting the fundamental role of biodiversity and the need for its wider integration into other sectoral policies.
i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the protection of biodiversity is one of the priorities of the union and that it is the task of the european institutions to work towards the achievement of the objectives set by the eu biodiversity strategy 2020. the economic and social costs of biodiversity loss are too high for the union and the member states to ignore.
some of these proposals appear, rather than being 'concrete', to be dictated by an ideological approach or to be in keeping with the ecological alarmism that is often and willingly echoed in politically correct parlour discussions.
it is contradictory to call for 'more europe' in this area too, when the eu's own policies are favouring the loss of biodiversity, as they are based on standardisation and 'free movement' on the broadest scale, on a multinational scale.
‒ after careful reflection and debate in the house, i have voted in favour of the report on the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy, on the basis of the following considerations: biodiversity is a human resource under threat and in a precarious equilibrium, to the point that its compromise is estimated to be among the ten most serious global risks to ecosystems and to the resilience of the earth, a 'system' resource that cannot be eliminated to address the necessary challenges of environmental sustainability; the six-objective strategy is complex and far from being achieved.
it follows that ultimately, greater political will and a multi-stakeholder approach are needed, with the development of a higher ecological awareness by regional and local actors, which collectively contribute to developing an ecological footprint that is double that of the sustainable one.
‒ the report sets out parliament's position on the commission and council's stated intention to improve the implementation of the biodiversity directives and to integrate biodiversity more effectively into other sectoral policies.
i voted in favour of this report because it stresses the need not to amend the directives on the protection of biodiversity but rather to improve their implementation.
‒ pollution, overexploitation of natural resources, climate change, land use change and deforestation are among the main factors driving biodiversity loss in europe, with adverse impacts on species survival.
this means that the natura 2000 network and the habitats and birds directives, where implemented, have delivered the expected results but it is still too little compared to the rate at which we are seeing biodiversity loss.
but unless these efforts are accompanied by a more resource-efficient, climate-resilient and low-carbon economy, the eu risks failing to meet its 2020 target.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the mid-term review of the biodiversity strategy because i believe that the enormous intrinsic value of biodiversity must be protected for the benefit of future generations.
biodiversity offers benefits for human health and makes a contribution of great social and economic value.
i voted in favour of amendment no 82 in order to apply the precautionary principle fully when authorising the use and release of gmos into the environment.
‒ we all agree that biodiversity is a value.
however, being a value for all, it risks, like everything that is public, not to be a value for anyone: the farmer who has to grow one species and not another in a given area to protect biodiversity must have a convenience or, most likely, just on principle, could decide not to do so.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy, as i think it is worthwhile to focus on this subject and to take a moment to note the progress made and the objectives still to be achieved.
the protection of biodiversity is important for the maintenance of ecosystems, which are increasingly at risk, and the projects already implemented to ensure such protection have helped to create significant economic returns in designated areas.
i would stress, however, that the ban on the use of neonicotinoid pesticides must be maintained, as their use is becoming more frequent, despite an increasing number of scientific studies revealing their possible negative impact on biodiversity, starting from the essential condition for the prosperity of natural habitats, such as through pollination.
‒ the european commission published (10/2015) a report on 'the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy to 2020', which assesses the results achieved since 2011, the date of adoption of the strategy, in implementing the actions and achieving the targets set.
overall, the report finds no significant progress towards the key objective of 'stopping biodiversity loss and ecosystem degradation in the european union (eu) by 2020'.
the council agreed last december to want better implementation of the sectoral directives (habitat and birds directives); more effective integration of biodiversity into other sectoral policies, in particular the common agricultural policy (cap), a more targeted use of existing financial instruments; a greater focus on international strategies; the urgency of raising awareness and involving all sectors of society and all levels of government; a greater use, including economic use, of ecosystem services.
the rapporteur strongly stressed the need not to amend the habitat and other biodiversity protection directives, as these, when well implemented, give positive results.
‒ biodiversity is an absolute value for our planet, but it is constantly at risk because of human activities and the low impact of the initiatives taken.
the environmental value is certainly there, but also the economic value, if we calculate that the failure to achieve the objectives costs europe some 50 billion euros a year, while one in six jobs is dependent, in one way or another, on the environment.
the implementation of the biodiversity strategy (drafted in 2011) is proving to be a failure: the european commission believes that no real progress has been made and that the system is deteriorating in an unstoppable way.
in particular, while there are some successes in the fight against invasive alien species, the contribution of agriculture and forestry to the protection and restoration of biodiversity has been virtually nil to date.
this must be remedied quickly; the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european environment agency.
in particular, synergies with the union's development policies, in particular in agriculture, need to be strengthened by removing the barriers that have prevented the cap and other initiatives from better meeting environmental needs.
‒ according to the eurobarometer biodiversity survey, at least eight out of ten citizens in the eu consider the effects of biodiversity loss to be serious.
the report on the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy shows that there is still a long way to go to achieve the mid-term targets in this area.
i voted in favour of the report on 'the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy to 2020', as it assesses the results achieved since 2011, when the strategy was adopted, in implementing the actions and achieving the targets set.
however, i am well aware that the medium-term report is far from the 6 targets it aims to achieve by 2020, especially in relation to the key objective of 'stopping biodiversity loss and ecosystem degradation in the eu by 2020'.
member states must understand the importance of protecting biodiversity and must protect it, not by revising but simply by implementing the rules that already exist to protect it.
‒ i am refraining from approving the mid-term review because some eu policies are favouring the loss of biodiversity and member states would not be able to support such actions economically.
protecting nature and respecting our planet's ecosystem are fundamental to the health and well-being of the people who inhabit it.
i therefore share the need to intervene with an interim monitoring of the eu biodiversity strategy 2020, to push for the achievement of results that are still slow to come but are necessary for our future, to be able to rely on new and greater resources that our ecosystem offers us and to address the challenges that most threaten us, from the economic crisis to climate change, by promoting agricultural policies that preserve biodiversity and strategies that support greater awareness, also through a stronger involvement of the main local and regional actors.
biodiversity loss is one of the top ten global risks.
nature's products are the basis of many industrial activities such as agriculture, cosmetics, pharmaceuticals, papermaking, horticulture, construction and waste treatment.
the loss of biodiversity has negative impacts on our food supplies, on recreational and tourism opportunities, on sources of timber, medicine and energy.
it also interferes with essential ecological functions.
i have therefore decided to support mr demesmaeker's report because protecting biodiversity is in the interest of the whole of europe because of the impact it may have, also, on future generations.
‒ the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy highlights the need for greater commitment by member states to implementation to halt biodiversity loss and prevent the degradation of ecosystem services.
the eu has taken initial steps to reduce the indirect causes of biodiversity loss, in particular wildlife trade and illegal fishing, and to mainstream biodiversity in its trade agreements.
the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy aims to achieve the goal of halting biodiversity loss by 2020.
in writing.
‒ biodiversity is a fundamental element for our health, well-being and economic prosperity.
unfortunately, the climate change of recent years, pollution and over-exploitation of land pose a dangerous threat to europe and the world.
the european effort to halt biodiversity loss failed miserably in 2010, with the failure to transpose important directives.
by adopting this report, we are calling for more political will to make biodiversity loss a real strategic priority, requiring a multi-stakeholder approach in which european, but also regional and local actors play a special role.
biodiversity and nature must continue to be considered central to a smart, sustainable and inclusive europe.
‒ biodiversity is seriously threatened in europe and worldwide.
species are going extinct at an extremely high rate, and this is due to human activities, habitat changes, pollution and climate change.
the protection of biodiversity is in everyone's interest, especially for future generations, and that is why i supported mr demesmaeker's report.
‒ as is well known, in 2010 the european commitment to halt biodiversity loss failed and the following year the eu developed a new strategy with the main objective of halting biodiversity loss and the degradation of ecosystem services by 2020. as we are still far from achieving these objectives, i am voting in favour of this mid-term review.
‒ in europe, as in the rest of the world, the daily cost is the inexorable and constant degradation of biodiversity, mostly linked to human activities.
the strategy adopted by the european union in 2011 aimed to identify actions to be taken to integrate biodiversity challenges into the different european policies such as the common agricultural policy or the common fisheries policy.
the strategy aims to halt this degradation process by 2020 and yet, the report of the european environment agency of 3 march 2015 brings back a very worrying reality by suggesting that the european objective of halting global biodiversity loss is at risk of failing.
‒ biodiversity, a key element for our health, well-being and economic prosperity, is under serious threat in europe and around the world.
the loss of biodiversity is particularly damaging and entails losses for nature, humanity and the economy.
the world economic forum has ranked biodiversity loss and ecosystem collapse among the top ten global risks.
this loss is linked to climate change and raw material scarcity issues.
in 2011, the european union developed a new strategy with the main objective of halting the loss of biodiversity and the degradation of ecosystem services in the eu by 2020. the 2015 mid-term review found that progress was too slow to meet the headline target and without further substantial efforts, the eu will again fall short of the agreed target in 2020. i therefore believe that with more political will, better implementation and enforcement of existing legislation and new financial commitments, biodiversity loss can be stopped.
‒ the report voted on today concerns the mid-term review of the european biodiversity strategy, adopted by the eu in 2011 with the aim of halting biodiversity loss and ecosystem degradation by 2020. biodiversity is a pillar of our economy and our well-being, and i therefore supported the resolution of parliament expressing concern at the lack of progress towards the objectives set and calling for better implementation of the existing law.
‒ we voted in favour of the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy.
the results are not reassuring: we are continually losing biodiversity and degrading our ecosystems.
the first is the requirement that member states do not authorise new hydraulic fracturing operations in the eu, based on the precautionary principle and preventive action in view of the risks and negative impacts on the climate, the environment and biodiversity.
‒ the degradation and destruction of natural habitats due to land use change, land grabbing, climate change, unsustainable consumption patterns and the exploitation of marine resources are among the most important factors causing biodiversity loss in the european union and globally.
certain elements must be identified that define the state of biodiversity in a given area or region and support rational and sustainable use of resources.
it would be good to link international commitments on biodiversity to climate change strategies.
‒ i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy because it underlines the importance of a holistic approach to biodiversity protection in the fields of agriculture and the environment.
‒ the european commission has published a report on the 'mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy to 2020', which assesses the results achieved since 2011 in implementing actions and achieving the targets set.
overall, the report finds no significant progress towards the key objective of 'stopping biodiversity loss and ecosystem degradation in the european union by 2020'.
the council agreed last december to want better implementation of the sectoral directives (habitat and birds directives) and in particular: more effective integration of biodiversity into other sectoral policies, in particular the common agricultural policy (cap), a more targeted use of existing financial instruments, a greater focus on international strategies, the urgency to raise awareness and involve more all sectors of society and all levels of government and finally a greater value, including economic value, of ecosystem services.
this report strongly emphasises the need not to amend the habitat and other biodiversity protection directives and instead supports the idea of better implementation of existing legislation.
the european commission, after carefully assessing the results achieved since 2011 on biodiversity, has published a report reviewing the actions needed to achieve the objectives set by the adoption of the eu biodiversity strategy, which will be in force until 2020. according to the data in the report, there is no significant progress towards the key objective of halting biodiversity loss and ecosystem degradation in the european union by 2020. the report urges that directives concerned with protecting biodiversity should not be amended, confirming that such rules, when properly implemented and enforced, can bring significant positive results.
in the document, which i voted in favour of, parliament, in line with a recent council decision, called for better implementation of the sectoral directives (with the habitats and birds directives) and for more effective integration of the biodiversity theme with that of other sectoral policies, in particular the common agricultural policy (cap).
the proposals of the five star movement are still the same as we have presented them from the beginning: the european union has also adopted a number of measures to combat terrorism, such as the abolition of arms sales, the review of energy and economic policies, the amendment of the dublin regulation and the mandatory relocation of migrants between all 28 member states of the european union.
what makes the commission's delay all the more indefensible is the social cost of pollution by endocrine disruptors, paid for every year by, among others, some 60 000 infants who are born with significant cognitive delays due to exposure to these compounds in utero, children whose future we have stolen.
the protection of citizens and the environment and the application of the precautionary principle are priorities, above any commercial or economic interest.
the whole world recently converged in paris, france, for the climate change conference (cop21).
the world leaders have forged a common platform in addressing the devastating effects of climate change, particularly in the underprivileged countries across the entire length and breadth of the globe.
during this all-important global event, i declared my country’s position on climate change.
it is pertinent to mention that all the states contiguous to lake chad are facing the effects of climate change.
commission statement the commission is fully committed to putting very robust emission-testing procedures in place, as of september 2017, to measure real driving emissions (rde).
due to this revision clause and the technical improvements which can be expected, manufacturers will, as of today, have to design vehicles that will comply with a conformity factor of 1. the commission welcomes the report on the reduction of pollutant emissions from road vehicles (dess report) and agrees with the european parliament on the need to ensure that the commission is empowered to adopt measures and requirements on rde test procedures, including conformity factors, through delegated acts following the revision of the euro 5/6 legislation.
‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council implementing the safeguard clauses and the anti-circumvention mechanism providing for the temporary suspension of the tariff preferences contained in the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of moldova, of the other part.
‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's position on a regulation of the european parliament and of the council implementing the safeguard clauses and the anti-circumvention mechanism providing for the temporary suspension of the tariff preferences contained in the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of moldova, of the other part, because i believe it is important to have in place measures that can safeguard the european economy in the event of extraordinary circumstances.
the agreement provides for the temporary suspension, for two years, renewable for two years in exceptional cases, of the tariff preferences contained in the association agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova.
‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council implementing the anti-circumvention mechanism providing for the temporary suspension of the tariff preferences contained in the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part, in order to incorporate into eu internal legislation the instrument necessary to make the application of the anti-circumvention mechanism possible.
‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's position on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council implementing the anti-circumvention mechanism providing for the temporary suspension of the tariff preferences contained in the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part.
‒ the introduction of genetically modified organisms resistant to herbicides can pose a serious threat to the health of european citizens and the environment.
given the potential health hazard, i decided to vote in favour of the objection, reiterating the need for the commission to draw up a comprehensive proposal on gmos and gm feed as soon as possible, in order to carefully assess the environmental and health impact of these technologies.
i also reiterate the need for the commission to come up with a new proposal for gmos in food and feed, which will assess more closely their impact on the environment and human health.
i voted in favour of this objection because i consider that the draft commission implementing decision on genetically modified soybean fg72 is not in accordance with union law as it is not compatible with the objective of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 and regulation (ec) no 396/2005 of the european parliament and of the council which is, in accordance with the general principles laid down in regulation (ec) no 178/2002 of the european parliament and of the council, to provide the basis for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests in relation to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market.
the draft commission implementing decision therefore appears not to comply with union law as it does not ensure a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests in relation to genetically modified food and feed, nor the effective functioning of the internal market.
i therefore decided to vote in favour of the objection to this draft implementing decision by asking the commission, as indicated in the motion for a resolution, to submit a new legislative proposal which takes account of the concerns frequently expressed at national level regarding the safety of gmos for health and the environment and the proper functioning of the internal market.
‒ i voted in favour of the measure as i consider that the draft commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law as it is not compatible with the objective of regulations (ec) no 1829/2003 and (ec) no 396/2005 of the european parliament and of the council to provide the basis for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, the environment and consumer interests in relation to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market.
‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the draft commission implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of or produced from genetically modified fg72 soybean, because i believe that the european commission should come forward with a new comprehensive proposal on gmos and gm feed and carefully assess the environmental and health impact.
the introduction of pesticide-resistant gmos, such as genetically modified fg72 soybeans, poses environmental and health problems, leading to increased use of pesticides.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment by the placing on the market of genetically modified organisms.
this particular substance is in fact classified as 'probably carcinogenic' by the world health organization (who) in an assessment issued in 2015. we also call on the commission to propose a new, clearer and more consistent authorisation system for genetically modified food and feed, to protect human health and the environment.
rain transfers the weedkillers to watercourses - the very environment in which the weedkiller isoxaflutol is highly toxic - and to groundwater.
according to the 12th national report on pesticides and water prepared by ispra (the higher institute for protection and research under the ministry of the environment), italian waters are full of everything, starting with herbicides: up to 60 different substances in the same sample.
the commission has also proposed that the eu should be able to use its own resources to support the development of the eu's energy sector.
‒ the introduction of genetically modified organisms resistant to herbicides can pose a serious threat to the health of european citizens and the environment.
in view of the potential health hazard, i decided to vote in favour of the objection, reiterating the need for the commission to draw up a comprehensive proposal on gmos and gm-based feed as soon as possible, in order to carefully assess the environmental and health impact of these technologies.
i voted in favour of this objection because i consider that the draft commission implementing decision on genetically modified soybean mon 87708 x mon 89788 is not in accordance with union law, as it is not compatible with the objective of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 and regulation (ec) no 396/2005 of the european parliament and of the council, which is, in accordance with the general principles laid down in regulation (ec) no 178/2002 of the european parliament and of the council, to provide the basis for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests in relation to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market.
the draft commission implementing decision therefore does not appear to be in accordance with union law, failing to ensure a high level of protection of human and animal life and health, the environment and consumer interests in relation to genetically modified food and feed, and the effective functioning of the internal market.
i therefore decided to vote in favour of the objection to this draft implementing decision by asking the commission, as indicated in the motion for a resolution, to submit a new legislative proposal which takes account of the concerns frequently expressed at national level regarding the safety of gmos for health and the environment and the proper functioning of the internal market.
‒ i voted in favour of the measure as i consider that the draft commission implementing decision is not in line with union law, as it is not compatible with the objective of regulations (ec) no 1829/2003 and (ec) no 396/2005 of the european parliament and of the council to provide the basis for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, the environment and consumer interests in relation to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market.
‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the draft commission implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of or produced from genetically modified soybean mon 87705 × mon 89788 (mon-877ø5-6 × mon-89788-1), because i believe that the european commission should come forward with a new comprehensive proposal on gmos and carefully assess their environmental and health impact.
the introduction of genetically modified soybean mon 87708 × mon 89788, high in oleic acid and low in linoleic acid and containing glyphosate-resistant proteins, poses environmental and health concerns and leads to increased use of those pesticides.
in particular, this genetically modified soybean is also resistant to dicamba, a chlorine-based organic compound that is highly persistent in the environment once used and has a higher toxicity than glyphosate itself.
‒ the introduction of genetically modified organisms resistant to herbicides can pose a serious threat to the health of european citizens and the environment.
in view of the potential health hazard, i decided to vote in favour of the objection, reiterating the need for the commission to draw up as soon as possible a comprehensive proposal on gmos and gm-based feed in order to carefully assess the environmental and health impact of these technologies.
i voted in favour of this objection because i consider that the draft commission implementing decision on genetically modified soybean mon 87705 x mon 89788 is not in accordance with union law as it is not compatible with the objective of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 and regulation (ec) no 396/2005 of the european parliament and of the council, which is, in accordance with the general principles laid down in regulation (ec) no 178/2002 of the european parliament and of the council, to provide the basis for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests in relation to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market.
the draft commission implementing decision therefore does not appear to be in accordance with union law, failing to ensure a high level of protection of human and animal life and health, the environment and consumer interests in relation to genetically modified food and feed, and the effective functioning of the internal market.
i therefore decided to vote in favour of the objection to this draft implementing decision by asking the commission, as indicated in the motion for a resolution, to submit a new legislative proposal which takes account of the concerns frequently expressed at national level regarding the safety of gmos for health and the environment and the proper functioning of the internal market.
‒ i voted in favour of the measure as i consider that the draft commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law as it is not compatible with the objective of regulations (ec) no 1829/2003 and (ec) no 396/2005 of the european parliament and of the council to provide the basis for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, the environment and consumer interests in relation to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market.
‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the draft commission implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of or produced from genetically modified soybean mon 87705 × mon 89788 (mon-877ø5-6 × mon-89788-1), because i believe that the european commission should come forward with a new comprehensive proposal on gmos and carefully assess their environmental and health impact.
the introduction of genetically modified soybean mon 87708 × mon 89788, high in oleic acid and low in linoleic acid and containing glyphosate-resistant proteins, poses environmental and health concerns and leads to increased use of those pesticides.
it is a duty to set ambitious targets when it comes to protecting the environment and the health of millions of citizens.
after the volkswagen scandal and the ambitious paris agreement, the european parliament had an obligation to send a strong and clear message about the need to create the conditions for increasingly sustainable production now.
our cities are besieged by smog and high concentrations of fine dust, ozone and nitrogen dioxide, which cause damage to the health of citizens and generate very high health costs, are proof of this.
ambitious measures are needed to reduce emissions and it is certainly unacceptable to downsize the objectives and content of the previous regulation (ec) no 715/2007.
for these reasons i voted in favour of the resolution tabled by the committee on the environment, which opposes the amendments, because the protection of the environment and the protection of citizens cannot and must not be threatened by mere economic interests.
‒ the transport sector generated 46% of nitrogen oxides (nox) emissions and around 14% of particulate matter emissions in the eu in 2013; these are two types of pollutants linked to adverse effects on health, the environment and the climate.
the outbreak of the vw scandal led the european commission to take note of the discrepancy between the emission values obtained by laboratory tests and those obtained by road tests and to submit a proposal for a regulation to temporarily raise the permissible limits for nitrogen oxide emissions from passenger cars.
i supported the objection of the committee on the environment, in the belief that the commission's proposal could constitute a general derogation capable of causing a huge impact on the emission of pollutants into the environment.
a shared effort is needed to ensure that environmental protection and the protection of public health are reconciled with the needs of industry and the protection of jobs.
i voted in favour of this objection under article 106 of the regulation on emissions from passenger and light commercial vehicles because i believe that in the light of the volkswagen dieselgate scandal and the commitments made in the cop 21 negotiations, it is counterproductive and wrong to increase the emission limits for these vehicles.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
if the european union were to give in to the pressures of the car lobby, it would yield both in terms of public health protection and competition: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community's energy policy is not only a matter of the community's own resources but also of the community's own resources.
here 's the thing: do we want to measure vehicle emissions under real conditions or under simulated conditions?
in other words, the vehicle that polluted x in the tests actually polluted y times x. now we have taken the real parameter (y times x) as a reference and lowered it in such a way as to improve the quality of the environment.
if the objection had been accepted, we would have been faced with a situation in which the cars currently on the road would have continued to emit emissions within the limits approved by the laboratory tests.
therefore, the current objective is to get the commission to come forward quickly with a rde package to achieve a short, but sustainable and timely compliance factor of 1 (80 mg/kg) as soon as possible and no later than 2023, restoring consumer confidence, safeguarding air quality and enabling automotive companies to invest in more environmentally friendly technologies without having to cut jobs.
this is a subject that is of great interest to the public, particularly in the light of the recent scandals involving the falsification of car emissions data by well-known car manufacturers.
we therefore hope that a new proposal for regulation will be adopted as soon as possible, one which does not penalise the productive sectors but is respectful of the environment and the well-being of our citizens.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate and energy policy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate and energy policy.
so instead of more stringent regulations actually limiting emissions, both eyes are closed (and the lungs are blocked), allowing even more harmful substances to be released into the environment.
the motion for a resolution is in my favour because it leaves no room for doubt and asks the commission to withdraw its proposal immediately and to submit a new text consistent with its commitments to protect the environment and the health of the public.
first the postponement of the vote, then the closed meetings with the political groups and finally a last-minute document from the european commission: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the right to vote on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a serious accident at work.
in the wake of the vw scandal, the commission had put forward a proposal to the technical committee for motor vehicles (ctvm) to introduce a new method of measuring and monitoring nitrogen oxide emissions from passenger cars under real driving conditions by means of portable emission measurement systems (pems).
‒ as m5s we are strongly opposed to any method of calculating emissions that, instead of countering the action of those who would like to circumvent existing rules and limits, aims to achieve the opposite objective.
we refuse to believe that the protection of health and the environment can be a systematic detriment to employment and work.
we believe that environmental ideas can be a great opportunity to create jobs, as is happening in the integrated management of the waste cycle and in the field of renewable energies.
‒ i am against the objection because adoption of the objection would prevent the entry into force of new road tests with negative consequences on employment and environmental levels.
‒ parliament today put its finger on the pulse of the environment by reducing the emissions that cars will produce, with a review process that will start at the beginning of 2017 and will be monitored annually.
instead of a legislative vacuum, waiting for a new proposal and a new process (which would have taken between 1 and 2 years), our companies will now have a certain framework, which will allow investment in technologies that are more environmentally friendly and the protection of hundreds of thousands of jobs, which are our priority, together with the fight against pollution levels.
following the introduction of new vehicle type-approval tests, in which exhaust gas emissions are measured in road driving rather than in the laboratory, technical changes were necessary to convert the values when switching from one measurement mode to another.
the result of our vote is an environmental result because it actually reduces the emissions that the machines will produce, with a review process that will start at the beginning of 2017 and will have an annual monitoring.
‒ the objection under article 106 of the regulation on emissions from passenger and light commercial vehicles (euro6) does not meet my vote in favour.
the vote is to support the clear importance of being able to provide a certain framework of rules, thus enabling producers to make a timely investment which can actually lead to a reduction in emissions.
this is another key point which justifies the vote, since this will lead to a real progressive reduction in vehicle emissions.
‒ given the seriousness of air pollution, which causes 430 000 premature deaths in europe each year and costs public coffers 940 billion euro, i welcome the objection to the european commission's proposal.
the measures mentioned appear inadequate for the effective protection of public health and too weak to send a signal to industry and to guide investment in environmental innovation.
in view of our commitment to the inclusion of strict environmental clauses and the promotion of european environmental standards in international trade agreements, we cannot in any way approve a proposal which could potentially weaken the position of the european negotiators in the various trade initiatives and, in particular, in the negotiations with the american counterpart.
the commission proposal also appears to be inconsistent and hardly compatible with the ambitious goals set by the paris agreement on climate change.
a european diplomatic victory that confirmed the union's role as the main supporter of the fight against global warming.
the european union has been able to demonstrate the parallel between growth and environmental protection.
i do not think it is appropriate to support the objection and therefore i am voting against the measures adopted by the regulation on emissions from passenger and light commercial vehicles (euro 6).
it is understandable that the new real driving emissions (rde) test procedure, based on the portable emissions monitoring system (pems), requires an update to take into account the margin of error of the pems systems.
i therefore voted against this increase proposed by the commission because it is in complete contradiction with the environmental policies that europe has been trying to pursue for years, not forgetting the very high cost of human lives which, according to recent studies on air pollution, is attributed to nox emissions.
‒ the second rde package (real drive emissions real road emissions), proposed by the european commission and approved on 28 october 2015 by the technical committee for vehicles, aims to establish a number of quantitative criteria, including the so-called compliance factor, in order to equalise the data from tests on vehicles carried out in the laboratory with those under real road driving conditions and to limit vehicle emissions (euro 6).
this technical need arises from the introduction of the new tests, where exhaust emissions are measured in road driving, and does not change the legislative type-approval limit imposed by regulation (ec) no 715/2007, which remains, in the case of nox, 80 mg/km for the euro 6 stage.
if this objection had been accepted, we would have been faced with a situation in which the cars currently on the roads in our cities and regions would have continued to emit emissions within the limits approved by laboratory tests, which in real terms, that is to say, in road driving conditions, can be higher by about 400-500%.
it is therefore unthinkable that they should produce the same results and that emissions should have the same limits.
‒ with the introduction of new real driving conditions (rde) tests, vehicle emissions on the road will be as consistent as possible with those recorded so far during laboratory tests, with the aim of ensuring stricter enforcement of existing regulations and curbing the dangerous increase in pollutant and particulate emissions.
‒ despite the fact that the majority was not achieved by a narrow margin, i voted in favour of the resolution recommending that the european parliament veto the commission's draft delegated act establishing the procedure for real driving emissions (rde) tests for motor vehicles.
the text was therefore unfortunately rejected, allowing the temporary increase of the limits on emissions from vehicles in real driving conditions.
however, in the face of the increase in air pollution and the resulting respiratory diseases, i consider it a mistake and a lack of respect for citizens to fail to meet commitments to protect the environment and human health.
today's vote shows that a large part of parliament wants the commitments to be respected and will continue to follow closely future developments on emissions testing and the responses given by the commission and parliament.
‒ we in m5s voted in favour of the resolution which favoured the weakening of emission limits, thus vetoing the measures to double emissions.
it is clear that the multinationals wanted to circumvent the rules, rather than invest in innovation to reduce emissions.
the resolution recommended that the european parliament veto the european commission's proposal to introduce new procedures for the approval and monitoring of road emissions by means of portable detectors from 2017. this would have allowed the car industry to adjust to the parameters in a reasonable period of time.
i voted in favour of the resolution because the technology to reduce pollution already exists and has been on the car market for some time.
finally, i believe it is essential that the outcome of the negotiations, in addition to realising the untapped potential of a more globally integrated services market, is capable of avoiding social, environmental and economic dumping and of ensuring full respect for the acquis of the european union.
in particular, the amendments adopted make it clear that essential public services, which guarantee the fundamental rights of european citizens, such as health, the environment, education and cultural services, are inviolable.
respect for working conditions and the environment is among the main criteria which will guide the definition of the tisa.
the tisa negotiations are to ensure greater reciprocity in access to services markets (telecommunications, transport, financial services, energy), create a level playing field globally (including in the procurement market), provide tangible benefits for consumers and ensure the future multilateralisation of the agreement.
the adoption of the european parliament resolution gives the commission a clear mandate to negotiate an agreement that consolidates the eu's position as the largest exporter of services while favouring european businesses, ensuring greater rights and lower prices for european consumers, more jobs and greater protection for workers and promoting sustainable development.
parliament must be a pragmatic voice for all social, environmental and political actors if europe as a whole and its diversity is to meet this challenge.
the conclusion of the agreement would lead to the liberalisation of some 90% of the services market, such as banking and finance, the labour market, health, education, scientific research, postal services, air and sea transport, waste collection, construction and telecommunications.
in europe we have cutting-edge labour laws and environmental and plant health standards, and it is right not to dilute them for commercial reasons.
the final text of the agreement will have to ensure greater reciprocity in terms of access to services markets (in the telecommunications, transport, financial services and energy sectors), creating a level playing field at global level (including the procurement market) and at the same time offering tangible benefits to consumers.
sexual discrimination, despite the commitment and efforts to recognise and affirm women's rights, continues to be present in european societies today and gender-related disparities have direct consequences on economic and social cohesion, sustainable growth and competitiveness, as well as on demographic challenges.
moreover – some members have mentioned this and i think it is important – particular attention needs to be paid to full respect for fundamental rights, including protection of the most vulnerable groups – in particular the roma – as well as to the effective implementation of legislation on the protection of minorities, tackling discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity, and further improving the business environment and the investment climate.
implementation of the agreement will not only deepen our political relations, it will also ensure a more predictable business environment, leading to much-needed jobs and growth.
the environmental situation is a big problem, extreme deforestation has exposed the country to floods, hurricanes and landslides.
with few exceptions, cooperation has not been concerned with this issue and has not contributed to the sustainable development of the country.
our presence in haiti has ensured that the elections of 25 october were conducted in a lawful and fair manner, in a climate of legality and respect for the rules, as my colleagues have also testified.
we consider it to be such because at present the only agreement that has been concluded since the adoption of the convention is the energy charter, which is currently excluded from the scope of the uncitral transparency rules.
the requests for those still pending amount to over 30 billion, while it is not known how much has already been granted as a result of friendly transactions, such as the 2 billion paid by poland or the changed environmental legislation by germany.
this is causing serious problems, especially with regard to the energy charter, a treaty which provides for isds and which is giving rise to a very large number of cases.
as you know, our funds, european funds, have a long and successful tradition of supporting regions with specific geographical characteristics, including island regions that face various social, economic and environmental challenges and require a specific case-by-case approach.
this means a lack of territorial continuity, a lack of competition in the price of energy.
it's a bitter truth: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
the islands have so much to offer: the sea becomes blue, growth, natural resources renewable energy, agricultural products organic farming.
one of the islands' problems is transportation and energy.
instead, we could start the transition to a third industrial revolution, which would create a development model based on renewable energy, sustainable transport, the internet of things.
finally, how can the text of the motion for a resolution on energy and employment be reconciled with the different choices made by various national and local governments on oil, with the drilling in the sicilian canal, the ridiculous royalties and the various concessions made to the eni?
we are talking about the environment and pollution, but in sicily 80% of the railway network is single track and half of the trains run on diesel fuel!
take some specific initiatives now so that every island is connected to the digital networks, every island is connected to the energy networks, and there is no longer an island like sardinia that is disconnected from the gas network, every island is connected to the network with regard to transport conditions and every island is fully guaranteed the right to mobility.
it would be too long to list here all the waste and useless work that has been done over the years, including in my own country, and which has caused serious socioeconomic damage and damage to the image not only of the regions concerned but also of cohesion policy as a whole.
the creation of a genuine partnership between member states, regions and local authorities is essential to foster economic growth and sustainable job creation.
strengthening the rule of law and democratic mechanisms, the protection of human rights and respect for minorities must continue to be a priority alongside serbia's commitment to the creation of key energy and transport infrastructure.
‒ i voted against this resolution because it welcomes serbia's constructive approach to dealing with the migration crisis; the committee also welcomes the fact that the commission has taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment.
progress on a constructive approach to addressing the migration crisis, on economic reforms and on the business environment make serbia worthy of union support to pursue further reforms and to encourage the institutions to make greater efforts to progressively align its foreign and security policy with that of the eu.
we have seen progress in the business environment, the reduction of the budget deficit and the labour market, including labour law and employment policy.
‒ the detente climate and the progress made in normalising relations between serbia and kosovo are certainly positive.
it is essential for the stability of the entire balkan area and to respond to the many regional challenges that are currently open (refugee emergency, energy, fight against terrorism) that europe's influence is firm and contributes to strengthening internal governance in kosovo.
‒ article 174 tfeu recognises the reduction of regional disparities in social, economic and environmental terms as a fundamental objective of the eu.
‒ the european islands represent a common heritage in terms of biodiversity and culture within the union.
these areas, which are often located on the borders of the european union, are particularly vulnerable to problems of energy supply, demographic trends, climate change and, in particular, migration flows.
the potential of europe's islands must be exploited, ensuring the development of sustainable tourism systems alongside seasonal tourism, while at the same time not losing sight of the great opportunities offered by islands as sources of alternative energy such as ocean, wind and solar.
the resolution stresses the importance of support measures to counter the significant trend towards depopulation of island regions and calls on the european commission to undertake a thorough analysis of the additional costs of insularity in terms of transport systems for people and goods, energy supply and market access, particularly for smes.
the text calls on the commission to undertake a thorough analysis of the additional costs of insularity in terms of transport systems for passengers and goods and energy supply, and in terms of market access, particularly for smes.
however, the peripherality of these areas can become an added value for europe, particularly in relation to the production of alternative energy or the protection of biodiversity.
the union's islands are peripheral territorial areas at the external borders of the eu and are particularly vulnerable to the challenges facing europe, such as globalisation, demographic change, climate change, energy supply and exposure to illegal immigration.
the european islands contribute to the diversity of the union, both from an environmental and cultural point of view.
the european islands can contribute to strengthening the union's sustainable development, given their high potential for producing energy from renewable sources by virtue of their privileged exposure to wind, sea and sun.
it is time for someone to come along and put something in black and white that is in plain sight of everyone except the european bureaucrats: the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
there is no regional continuity, which means a lack of services and competition, a strain on smes, and an environment hostile to low-cost companies and multinationals.
it would be desirable to launch a thorough analysis of the additional costs incurred by islands, such as those related to the transport system or energy supply, and to establish a 'european strategic framework for islands' which provides for a set of concrete instruments that could have a strong territorial impact.
i am referring in particular to disadvantages such as accessibility to services, higher prices due to transport costs, difficult access to the single market, lack of infrastructure, vulnerability to environmental risks, scarcity of raw materials and protection against illegal immigration.
i hope that by improving existing policies and using available resources more efficiently, island regions can overcome their obstacles in terms of economic growth, job creation and sustainable development.
‒ today i voted in favour of the resolution on insularity, which contains some recommendations to deal with the problems associated with it, such as economic and social vulnerability, the additional costs incurred for transport, energy supply and access to markets.
by ensuring that they have access to digital, energy and transport networks.
it is necessary that the commission initiates a public consultation hopefully followed by coherent and effective action by the commission itself on how to strengthen the role of local and regional authorities in eu cohesion policy and that local and regional authorities are effectively supported to strengthen their role and impact in relation to the management of the european structural and investment funds in the period 2014-2020, taking due account of their respective responsibilities and the specificities of the member states, in order to create sustainable economic growth and jobs.
our municipalities and regions must be allowed to negotiate, within a stable legal framework, investments in priority areas that are essential to the development of our societies, such as research and innovation, the transition to a low-carbon economy and social inclusion.
to this end, mrs mihaylova's report recognises the importance of multi-level governance which supports these objectives (economic growth, social progress and sustainable development) by strengthening the democratic dimension of the eu and increasing the effectiveness of its political action; so i voted for it.
‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on the role of regional and local authorities in the european structural and investment funds (esif) because eu cohesion policy in the 2014-2020 programming period is the main instrument of investment in the eu that european territories will benefit from (according to well-defined allocation rules) and aims at creating a sustainable bottom-up growth process aimed at job creation, entrepreneurship and innovation development at local level.
local and regional authorities are facing new and important challenges, imposed by globalisation, climate change and the migration emergency.
only through good multi-level governance can we help local and regional authorities to respond effectively to global challenges such as climate change, energy security, migration flows and increased urbanisation, as well as to address specific problems of administrative capacity and regulatory complexity.
while cohesion policy aims to reduce economic, social and territorial disparities between member states and their regions, it is through an inclusive strategy that it can provide a real opportunity to create a sustainable growth process, to foster job creation, entrepreneurship and innovation in local and regional economies, improving the quality of life of citizens and creating solidarity and greater development in eu regions.
we must reduce the number of illegal entries into the european union from turkey in a sustainable way by further and decisive efforts to ensure the effective implementation of the action plan.
although it does present some points of agreement, which we in the five star movement have supported, such as the importance of stimulating domestic demand and increasing public investment and greater attention to environmental problems, the problem of unemployment and growing inequalities, these are nevertheless references which, unless accompanied by proposals for alternative policies and for the revision of the rules and mechanisms of economic governance, are empty and insufficient.
in the context of the european year of the environment, the commission has launched a new action plan for the promotion of the environment, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources and to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the union.
the italian agricultural sector, for example, would be subject to yet another decision without taking into account the impact on the economy, employment and the environment.
i believe that the task of the european union is to make a strong political, economic and financial contribution to ensure that the transition process under way is brought to a positive conclusion, and this must be done in good time, we cannot waste time.
it is not about repressive techniques, but about the environmental impact of the fight against drugs.
according to a study published by the open society foundations, an ngo headed by george soros, in the most critical areas of the world, the environmental consequences of the international drug war would be even more devastating than the economic and social ones.
the long tradition of glassmaking in wallonia is confronted with the overcapacity of asia and the higher production costs and stricter environmental standards in europe.
the two plants involved, belonging to the agc europe sa and saint-gobain glass benelux groups, were forced to close, in particular because of the strong competition from asian countries, which can produce without having to comply with the environmental and social constraints to which our companies are subject.
i appreciate that the report voted on today, which i support, moves away from the austerity mantra and puts particular emphasis on sustainable economic growth, based primarily on the revival of investment.
however, i believe that in addition to the short-term fiscal implications of structural reforms, the long-term environmental, economic and social effects should also be taken into account.
we must not forget that the transition to a green economy and investment in more efficient health systems will increase the security of energy supply, improve the health and well-being of european citizens and create quality jobs, thus helping to restore the competitive edge of the european economy.
the commission should also take into account in the priorities of the annual growth review and in the country-specific recommendations the shift towards a new economic model based on a circular economy, including the development of a fiscal framework that enhances the development of sustainable policies and complies with the polluter pays principle, which provides the right signals for investments in resource efficiency.
‒ i voted in favour of the report proposed by the committee on economic and monetary affairs as it is the report on the priorities of the european semester to improve growth in the european union in 2016. the proposals in the document aim to create a stronger economic recovery by creating quality jobs and restoring equal opportunities, without neglecting the major challenges, such as climate change, that need constant monitoring.
i support the initiative which will enable member states to address structural challenges and contribute to a long-term strategy to undertake new investments in support of sustainable and inclusive growth.
the report identifies the priorities for growth and jobs, but i believe that there is no adequate policy for a genuine energy union based on solidarity, and it is important that measures are taken to stimulate job creation, highlighting the importance of social protection systems.
the report stresses the essential link between the promotion of structural reforms that can enhance growth potential and, above all, the support for equitable and sustainable social protection systems.
the necessary deepening of emu must promote economic stability and convergence, giving countries with low growth, high unemployment and inadequate levels of investment, and therefore with a limited budgetary margin, the opportunity to converge and achieve the treaty objectives of balanced and sustainable growth.
at the same time, a long-term strategy for sustainable growth needs to be put in place.
we hope that all actors will actively participate in the european semester in order to achieve a stronger economic recovery, a greater resilience of the european social market economy to shocks and structural challenges, thus demonstrating that european democracy works and can ensure sustainable and broadly shared prosperity.
the main challenge to be met is debt reduction combined with investment recovery and domestic demand strengthening in an efficient regulatory environment.
only then will we be able to demonstrate that european democracy works and is capable of ensuring sustainable and broadly shared prosperity.
however, there are some points of agreement, such as the importance of stimulating domestic demand and increasing public investment and greater attention to environmental issues, unemployment and growing inequalities.
this is a serious phenomenon which, in addition to causing a loss of human capital, undermines the foundations of possible future sustainable economic growth.
in order to ensure socially responsible recovery and sustainable economic growth, it is therefore important to continue to focus on structural reforms and investment aimed at supporting employment, education and human capital, social development and reducing inequalities not only within individual countries but across the union.
the eu as a whole therefore needs to act with greater solidarity and foresight, moving beyond the narrow logic of austerity as the only way out of the economic crisis and implementing instead a broad sustainable and inclusive development plan that focuses on economic recovery in the most disadvantaged areas of europe.
however, i believe that in addition to the short-term fiscal implications of structural reforms, the long-term environmental, economic and social effects must also be taken into account.
we must not forget that the transition to a green economy and investment in more efficient health systems will increase the security of energy supply, improve the health and well-being of european citizens and create quality jobs, thus helping to restore the competitive edge of the european economy.
the commission should also take into account in the priorities of the annual growth review and in the country-specific recommendations the shift towards a new economic model based on a circular economy, including the development of a fiscal framework that enhances the development of sustainable policies and complies with the polluter pays principle, which provides the right signals for investments in resource efficiency.
the document stresses the need to promote sustainable and inclusive growth that leads to more quality jobs and real prospects for all, including young people.
investing in people, implementing structural reforms and reviving sustainable growth are good starting points, which i fully share, and it is for this reason that i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
‒ i welcomed the riberio report on the social and employment aspects of the european semester 2016. the key aspects of the report are social and responsible structural reforms, the enhancement of sustainable growth through investment, a better use of european funds to foster social and geographical cohesion, social inclusion as a challenge for society.
in the current economic conditions, the european union needs socially responsible structural reforms because the social impact of budgetary adjustment policies, mainly through spending cuts, is currently close to sustainable.
the new reforms must therefore start at the social level to create a model that ensures, through increased investment and better use of funds, sustainable growth, equality, protection for vulnerable groups and, in general, well-being for citizens.
in this sense, the development of the economy and the increase in trade with the eu are the key to a stable and plural society at a time of exposure to fundamentalism and terrorism: the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is based on the principle of subsidiarity.
we are convinced that european trade policy can be an effective instrument for promoting sustainable development and economic growth, and we are confident that the agreement will contribute to the complete stabilisation of the country through a higher level of employment and a reform agenda that can be implemented in a framework of cooperation at the regulatory level.
in this climate of uncertainty and general disillusionment with the eu institutions, the european ombudsman has been an important point of reference for the requests of european citizens, who have turned to the institution mainly to complain about issues related to the transparency of the eu institutions and access to documentation produced by them.
‒ after careful reflection and discussion in the chamber, i gave my positive vote on the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2014 on the basis of the following considerations: the crisis has painfully highlighted the economic difficulties faced by european citizens when structural rigidities are not promptly and decisively corrected by the member states; it follows that the ecb should be credited for defending the euro and price stability; a necessary step to correct macroeconomic imbalances and to exploit the effectiveness and flexibility of the stability pact is in any case to strengthen governance and economic policy coordination; the great fragility of the euro economy leaves ample room for political commitment by states and institutions to implement sustainable and socially balanced structural reforms.
in order to reach a compromise between the political parties, a document was produced that was far from sustainable.
strong political commitment to the implementation of sustainable and socially balanced structural reforms is essential to strengthen economic growth.
the ecb faced a complex monetary policy environment in 2014. the weak recovery in 2013 did not accelerate as initially expected.
these include investment, trade in goods and services, electronic commerce, public procurement, energy, competition, the fight against corruption, international law and agriculture.
‒ australia and new zealand are examples of established democracies in the asia-pacific region, where the rule of law is fully respected and where a high level of environmental protection and protection of human, social and employment rights is currently ensured.
the union's efforts in this area must, however, always be directed towards strengthening human rights, labour and environmental standards.
food safety), environmental (e.g.
the negotiations, which should lead to strong and enforceable provisions in a range of areas, require impact assessments on the overall sustainability of the potential agreements with a view to fully assessing the potential benefits and losses that would result from a strengthening of the eu's trade and investment relations with australia and new zealand, to the benefit of their respective people and businesses, including the outermost regions and the overseas countries and territories.
trade relations with australia and new zealand can therefore help to promote common values and interests by addressing investment, trade in goods and services, public procurement, energy, competition, anti-corruption and the needs of smes, without compromising consumer and environmental protection.
i believe that a deepening of trade relations with australia and new zealand, which takes account of issues such as investment, e-commerce, public procurement, energy, competition and the needs of smes, can make a positive contribution to economic growth in europe in all areas.
it is also safe to say that both countries ensure a high level of environmental protection and protection of human, social and employment rights.
the negotiation of two separate modern and ambitious free trade agreements certainly has important aspects to address, such as investment, trade in goods and services, energy, state-owned enterprises, competition and, above all, the needs and interests of smes.
australia and new zealand are a key component in eu relations with the asia-pacific region, and i believe that the expansion and deepening of trade relations with these two countries will lead to a strengthening of european trade policy in that region, with mutual benefits both in terms of market access, especially for smes, and sustainable development and investment.
illegal trade fuels the escape of exotic or wild animals into an environment devoid of their natural enemies, which can lead to their uncontrolled spread, with deleterious consequences for the environment, public health and the economy.
the existence of a compatible system for the identification and registration of wild animals commonly kept as pet animals would reduce illegal trade and improve the protection of public and animal health as well as biodiversity.
in fact, in a continent where 26 percent of adults are overweight, it is absolutely essential that we start in schools to teach and understand how to go about eating healthy, responsible and sustainable food.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the inadequate use of therapeutic antimicrobials in veterinary medicine, their use for non-therapeutic purposes and environmental pollution have accelerated the emergence and spread of resistant microorganisms, with serious consequences for animal and human health.
we can no longer accept the easy waste and fraud of european funds for regional management, the lack of transparency in the documentation of contracts awarded directly, the fact that national control authorities are appointed by controlled entities in conflict of interest and that they certify the expenditure and, above all, the lack of willingness of governments to cooperate seriously in the exchange of tax and banking information.
stimulating sustainable economic growth is a priority objective to be achieved through fiscal consolidation and austerity, including the fight against fraud in all its forms.
smes will benefit from the simplified regulatory environment that the regulation provides and the one-stop shop mechanism of the national supervisory authorities.
they are fleeing armed conflicts in their countries of origin, persecution and gender-based violence, or human rights violations, but also climate change that has left land barren and the misuse of the planet's resources.
finally, i am in favour of two other principles contained in the regulation: the need to guard against antibiotic resistance and the commitment to conserve biodiversity and valuable genetic resources.
the commission proposes in this document to concentrate the distribution of these products in schools by educating children about the environment and public health with the aim of strengthening their link with agriculture.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionising radiation.
‒ educating young people about healthy, responsible and sustainable eating, introducing sustainability, seasonality, zero km and ethical criteria in the selection of products that must be free of additives.
education for a healthy and balanced lifestyle can undoubtedly have a positive effect on the health of young european citizens and on the sustainability of the consumer choices they make throughout their lives.
the member states participating in this aid programme will have to promote healthy eating habits, organic farming and the fight against food waste.
particular attention is paid to the selection of products and their origin (local, fair and sustainable).
member states need to do more to promote healthy eating habits, organic farming, local food chains and the fight against food waste.
i also find it particularly useful that the products supplied come from the local area, as a guarantee of quality and respect for the environment.
in a continent where 26% of adults are now overweight, we need to start in schools to educate young people on healthy, responsible and sustainable eating, a diet with as little added sugar and salt as possible.
sustainability, seasonality, locality, ethical production and no additives will now be the criteria for selecting food for our children.
there is time for the final vote and i hope that we will find a way to give more attention to sustainable and green transport services, so as to contribute to better energy efficiency.
‒ contributing to a more efficient, interconnected and sustainable operation of the ten-t by defining a framework that allows all ports to improve their efficiency and helps them to cope with changing requirements in the logistics and transport sectors is certainly in the interest of european citizens.
finally, i fully support the introduction in the european parliament's position of minimum requirements for port service providers limited to proof of professional qualifications and compliance with the principles of maritime and environmental safety and national social standards.
the proposal under consideration aims to increase the level of efficiency, interconnection and sustainability of the ten-t by modernising port services and operations, while creating the necessary conditions to attract investment in ports.
the objective is to contribute to a more efficient and sustainable operation of the ten-t by providing a regulatory framework that makes it possible to improve the efficiency of ports in the logistics and transport sectors in order to attract investment in them.
the objective of this report is to contribute to a more efficient, interconnected and sustainable operation of the ten-t by defining a framework to improve the efficiency of all ports and to help them cope with changing logistics and transport requirements.
following the two reforms of 2001 and 2004 which dealt with the liberalisation of the sector, the focus is on transparency, workers' rights and safety, social dialogue and environmental protection.
the report aims to create a favourable environment for the effective implementation of monetary policies developed within the european framework by reducing the response times by member states for the production and dissemination of the relevant statistical data.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
‒ after careful reflection and debate in the chamber, i voted in favour of the report on the 2014 annual report on the protection of the european union's financial interests fight against fraud, as i believe that stimulating sustainable economic growth is a priority objective to be achieved through a budgetary consolidation and austerity that also includes the fight against fraud in all its forms.
in the present situation, with stagnant economic growth and populist and demagogic movements fanning the flames of anti-europeanism, we must be able to project the image of a responsible europe, one which works for the welfare of its citizens and which does not waste a single euro of the resources at its disposal.
finally, i would like to stress the importance of promoting a proper administrative culture which prevents the waste of important public resources, which should all be spent on the benefit of the european citizens.
the presence of numerous structural barriers in various dimensions remains a problem to be addressed in order to create a truly favourable environment for participation in decision-making at all levels.
‒ gender mainstreaming in eu sectoral policies is a key step towards achieving equality between men and women and towards an inclusive and sustainable society.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
the return of these women should be avoided by recognising the specific nature of the problems they are experiencing and, last but not least, the practice of family reunification should be encouraged, not only for their own safety but also as a guarantee of legality and well-being in the host countries (important studies show that the presence of women reduces the aggressiveness of migrant men and creates a positive climate of integration and tolerance).
and it is certainly very positive that the new climate of cooperation between russia and the united states, as well as, i stress, the victory of the reformists in iran, can further push towards a negotiated solution.
i think this is a good deal: it makes amendments updating the previous 2003 agreement; the dialogue with social partners and small and medium-sized enterprises will be maintained and developed; their input will be given greater consideration in the legislative process; the commission will also be able to take account of the social and environmental impact of the acts, especially in the course of the procedures.
it is not only important that the systems be sustainable and financially viable, but also that they be adequate.
with directive 93/12/eec, the eu has tried to combat sulphur dioxide emissions, which are considered to be one of the main causes of acidification and the formation of particles harmful to human health.
i therefore decided to vote in favour of the proposal for codification, considering it essential to encourage collective action by all member states to protect the ecosystem, biodiversity and the health of citizens.
‒ provision of a mere codification of community legislation for the reduction of sulphur dioxide emissions.
limiting sulphur content of acidifying pollutants emitted to the atmosphere by certain liquid fuels, such as the maximum sulphur content in marine fuels in europe, and focusing on alternative low sulphur fuels are actions with a single goal: the protection of the environment and the health of citizens in the eu.
directive 1999/32/ec setting maximum sulphur levels for heavy fuel oil, diesel oil, marine diesel oil and marine diesel oil used in the union is an important piece of eu environmental legislation: i am therefore in favour of its being codified, given all the changes that have taken place since then.
sulphur dioxide emissions contribute to the problem of soil acidification, with direct effects on human health and the environment.
sulphur, which is found in small quantities in oil and coal, has been identified as the main source of sulphur dioxide emissions.
i have decided to vote in favour of the report because i share the objective of gradually reducing sulphur dioxide emissions from the combustion of certain types of liquid fuels in order to reduce the harmful effects on public health and the environment.
the report, which aims to reduce sulphur dioxide emissions by setting maximum sulphur levels for heavy fuel oil and diesel fuels such as heating oil and light diesel used by ships, is a mere codification of existing texts without any substantial changes.
the difficult economic, social and international environment requires careful reflection on the prospects for the european budget for the coming year.
i hope that the union budget will promote convergence, integration and cohesion policies pursuing the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable, inclusive and inclusive growth.
while the commission must undoubtedly work more effectively with a lighter administration, it must never be forgotten that 94% of the union budget is earmarked for investment in employment, the environment, migration flows, enterprises, especially small and mediumsized enterprises, and research.
personally, i believe that this transition is crucial if the eu budget is to be a real tool for managing current crises, including in particular the migrant and refugee crisis, but also supporting economic growth (for example through the efsi) and climate policy.
the commission will not only cover economic, social and environmental aspects but will also assess the impact of the laws adopted on competitiveness, particularly in relation to regional realities and smes.
the role of social dialogue and social and environmental impact assessment will make it possible in the future to improve the quality of european legislation.
among the particular highlights of the agreement i would stress the guarantee that the impact assessments carried out by the commission before a legislative proposal also include the consideration of social and environmental standards and also take into account the so-called 'costs of non-europe', i.e.
i welcome the reference to the cost of non-europe in the commission's impact assessments and the need to take account of the social, environmental and labour effects of eu rules before they are adopted, because this is an important step in protecting the rights and interests of our citizens.
while the agreement reduced cigarette smuggling, the market and regulatory environment have changed since then and the agreement with smes should not be renewed, extended or renegotiated.
the agenda includes a debate on the question with a request for an oral answer to the commission on the zika virus epidemic, by annie schreijer-pierik, matthias groote, boleslaw g. piecha, josé inácio faria, katerina konecná, martin häusling, piernicola pedicini, joëlle mélin, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000030/2016 - b8-0119/2016) (2016/2584 (((rsp)).
today we are asking egypt to demonstrate its willingness to shed light on the death of giulio regeni, to punish those who are really responsible and not those who are convenient, to put an immediate end to the very serious violations of human rights and freedom of expression and opinion, because geopolitical and energy interests cannot justify the unjustifiable, because extremist terrorism is not fought with state terror.
this encourages a more deliberate and regulated use of medicines, which can in no case replace good farming practices and must be administered only after a careful assessment by the veterinarian, thereby enhancing the protection of animal health, human health and the environment.
i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is important to make a clear distinction between the market for veterinary medicinal products and that for medicinal products for human use, ensuring the availability of products and promoting administrative simplification, without sacrificing the essential objectives of public health and environmental protection.
clear and as simple as possible legislation is therefore needed to improve access to medicines, reduce administrative burdens, stimulate competitiveness and innovation, so that new and better medicines for the treatment and prevention of animal diseases are available, while avoiding damage to the environment.
‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on veterinary medicinal products, which updates the european rules on the subject in order to protect animal and human health while protecting the environment.
the text voted today adds another important aspect to the commission's proposal, which focuses on the availability of veterinary medicines and administrative simplification, while respecting public health and protecting the environment, namely the fight against antibiotic resistance.
in the process of defining a competitive and future-oriented regulatory environment capable of promoting technological progress and innovation, in particular in public administrations, the union will need to be firm in ensuring an adequate level of data protection and dissemination.
to move from being spectators/users of services to becoming protagonists in the development of the data-driven economy, it is necessary to create a competitive environment by supporting the creation and standardisation of open data, especially with regard to data developed by the public sector, and also by encouraging private companies to open their databases whenever possible while respecting privacy.
investing in infrastructure capacity, building specialised skills, promoting entrepreneurship, in a secure but flexible regulatory environment, can create the conditions for the european, joint and coordinated development of the data economy, to enable the eu to compete globally.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
‒ progress in the accession negotiations with montenegro is now certain and the two negotiating chapters on transport and energy were announced at the brussels intergovernmental conference on 21 december 2015. the state of israel needs more support from the union and i would therefore have voted in favour.
there are still very few complaints, given the very low commitment of the judiciary and the police, which does not contribute to creating a climate of trust.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, today's debate was not originally on the agenda, but i think it is right that we should be discussing in this house such an important subject which is closely related to human and animal health and the environment, and i am therefore glad that this debate can take place here in front of you all.
the envi committee, faced with this situation, decided by a large majority that the precautionary principle should be applied in this case, in order to ensure that active substances or products placed on the market do not have harmful effects on human or animal health or the environment.
the regulation on the placing of plant protection products on the market states that, in particular, it does not prevent member states from applying the precautionary principle where there is scientific uncertainty as to the risks to human health, animal health or the environment of plant protection products to be authorised on their territory.
finally, the environmental impact, the environmental impact on the environment, especially on aquatic organisms, must be studied, monitored, as well as on human health.
we have seen that there are very different positions within parliament, as has already been pointed out in the committee on the environment, but now is also the time to look for possible solutions.
the 5-star movement does not intend to renew the authorisation of glyphosate until there is a unanimous opinion on the absence of carcinogenic risk and echa has also taken a decision on the likely endocrine-disrupting properties of the active substance, which is expected by 2017.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the particular subject of the single market, an essential instrument for boosting economic growth and employment, raises challenges of effectiveness and efficiency of legislation which cannot be postponed, since, by means of the right body of legislation, we are restoring fruitfulness to an environment which is no longer competitive for our companies and to improve the single market legislation, which strengthens consumer confidence.
it is also essential that both the commission and the member states progressively increase the quotas allocated to small-scale fishermen in order to promote this type of fishing which is socially and ecologically sustainable, just as it is important to give priority to small-scale coastal fishing in the allocation of the european maritime and fisheries fund.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the united nations intervention to conserve and use marine biodiversity in areas outside national jurisdiction is right and most appropriate, and perhaps only a little late.
the proliferation of maritime activities and the increasing pressure on marine sustainability make it no longer possible to delay action on conservation.
the development of a legally binding international instrument that is truly effective and well coordinated in the field of marine biology must necessarily also cover fisheries, just as the principle of liability must be incorporated into the new international agreement through the recognition of ecological damage at sea and the establishment of the chain of responsibility for this damage.
the new international agreement should provide for the development of an institutional mechanism to carry out a preliminary environmental impact assessment for activities that may have a significant impact on the marine environment, with a sound scientific basis and accompanying such activity with environmental and socioeconomic monitoring.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am here to say that thanks to the italian judiciary, a new scandal has come to light concerning the illegal disposal of waste from oil extraction in basilicata, in southern italy.
however, on 13 november 2014, i asked the commission, which is represented here, whether the plants at tempa rossa, tecnoparco and centro olio di viggiano complied with the european directives; on 7 january 2015, i reported on the adverse health effects of mining activities in the val d'agri; on 5 march 2015, i requested information on the environmental compatibility of an eni well, which had been struck for the fifth time.
on 12 march 2015, i reported the illegal dumping of industrial sludge in tempa rossa; on 21 june 2015, i reported heavy metal and hydrocarbon contamination of the groundwater near the oli di viggiano centre; i would add: a written statement, ten speeches in plenary, more than twenty speeches in the committee on the environment.
the search for urgent responses to the crisis must not therefore undermine the ability to tackle complex challenges at european level, such as safeguarding the economic, social and environmental role of agriculture.
i supported the affronte report on the new partnership agreement with denmark and greenland because i am convinced of the possibilities offered by the new agreement both in economic terms, it will be the third most important in the sector for the whole union, and in terms of sustainability.
it promotes a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the greenlandic fishing zone.
the aim is to develop a sustainable fisheries policy with responsible exploitation of resources and to strengthen cooperation between the union and greenland.
i could only vote in favour of this report because it represents a key economic engine for the european union, based on full respect for the sustainability of the resource.
‒ whereas the european parliament gives its consent to the conclusion of the new protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and greenland; that the apa between the parties has been in force since 2006 and has been renewed several times; that the commission's analysis is that the renewal of the protocol would bring additional benefits to both the eu and greenland, allowing the former to fish in greenland and the latter to have a significant financial return as well as generating employment in the sector; that in the event of a fishing opportunity lower than that provided for in the protocol, greenland is under an obligation to return to the eu part of the amount received in return for the permit granted; the new protocol should increase the benefits in terms of sustainable exploitation of fish stocks and overcome the difficulties encountered so far, i thought it appropriate to vote in favour.
it also promotes a favourable partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the greenland fishing zone.
‒ the new protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union, on the one hand, and the government of denmark and the local government of greenland, on the other, promotes a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the greenland eez.
‒ this report, drawn up by our colleague marco affronte, on the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union, denmark and greenland, is one of the most sustainable fisheries agreements in terms of exploitation of fish stocks.
i stress that it is in our interest to continue to promote responsible fishing in order to ensure the long-term conservation and sustainable exploitation of marine biological resources.
the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
‒ in 2004, a working group was set up at the un general assembly to address the issue of conservation and sustainable use of marine resources in areas not under national jurisdiction.
in order to create coordinated action with member states, the last report of 2015 stressed the need to develop a legally binding instrument at international level on the law of the sea and, in particular, on the protection of marine biodiversity.
‒ seas and oceans cover 71% of the earth's surface and contain 97% of the planet's water, representing an incomparable heritage in terms of biodiversity.
the nicolai report, which i supported with my vote, reiterates the need for the eu to play a proactive role in ensuring a real assertion of science-based marine governance by supporting the draft of a new international agreement at the un that complements the previous agreement on the conservation of fisheries resources (unfsa) signed in 1995. only through a joint commitment at the global level will it be possible to act to stem the consequences of climate change and ocean acidification and the negative impacts of overexploitation, pollution, waste and the destruction of marine habitats and ecosystems
in writing.
‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that it is the european union's task to maintain its leading role in the field of the law of the sea and fisheries and that it is necessary to use this role to achieve the adoption of an instrument that disciplines the issue of the conservation and sustainable use of marine biological diversity in areas not under national jurisdiction in an international and compelling manner.
‒ marine activities are developing and multiplying at a rapid pace, and so the pressure on sustainability and the conservation of marine biodiversity is continuously increasing.
the international community recognises the need for an international approach to managing pollution, environmentally degrading human activities and, in general, threats to marine biodiversity.
a legally binding international instrument to protect marine biodiversity should be presented by the end of 2017 in the framework of the international convention on the law of the sea.
‒ the report promotes an internationally legally binding instrument under the un convention on the law of the sea for the conservation and sustainable use of marine biodiversity in areas not under national jurisdiction.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on 'fishing aspects in the framework of the international agreement on marine biodiversity in areas not under national jurisdiction, united nations convention on the law of the sea' because i believe that the united nations intervention aimed at the conservation and sustainable use of marine biological diversity in areas not under national jurisdiction is right and most appropriate.
the proliferation of marine activities and the increasing pressure on marine sustainability no longer make it possible to delay conservation action, but the development of a legally binding international instrument that is truly effective and well coordinated in marine biology must necessarily also cover fishing activities, among the main marine activities; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environmental impact of the shipping industry is taken into account.
‒ the un general assembly working group on the effectiveness of the current framework in addressing the conservation and sustainable use of marine resources in areas beyond national jurisdiction stressed in its latest report the need for a comprehensive global regime and recommended the development of an internationally legally binding instrument.
‒ the increasing development of maritime activities is undermining the sustainability and conservation of marine biodiversity, including in areas outside national jurisdiction.
the ad hoc working group established by the un general assembly to address the issue identified the need for international coordination for the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity and sees the creation of a legally binding international instrument, under the united nations convention on the law of the sea (unclos), as the most effective way to address the issue globally.
i believe, as i also said in the report voted in plenary and on which i voted in favour, that this is a path that is now mandatory, but i believe that it is necessary for the new instrument to also include fishing activities, which are among the main causes of the loss of marine biodiversity.
‒ i voted in favour as this report aims to develop a legally binding international instrument on the conservation and sustainable use of marine biological diversity in areas not under national jurisdiction.
a response that protects marine biodiversity from the growing dangers it faces, such as pollution or illegal fishing.
as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i feel particularly sensitive to this subject and i feel that my vote in favour was a responsible expression of an international modernisation which is increasingly concerned with the collective good that the sea represents.
‒ i agree with this report to support the decision of the united nations general assembly to develop, by 2017, a legally binding international instrument in the context of unclos, on the conservation and sustainable use of marine biological diversity in areas not under national jurisdiction.
we cannot allow activities such as unregulated or undeclared fishing or, even worse, pollution and dumping of waste at sea to endanger our marine ecosystems for all that they represent from an environmental, economic and social point of view.
– i supported this report because it is very important that the european union lead the way in the process of finding more sustainable ways to use the resources of the sea and to protect the sea’s biodiversity.
a sustainable way to use the sea is especially important in areas where there is currently no jurisdiction as we can have no control over activities in these areas.
i welcome the report by my colleagues on the committee on fisheries, in which the european parliament takes positive note of the decision of the united nations general assembly to develop a legally binding international instrument in the context of the conservation and sustainable use of marine biological diversity.
promoting the conservation and sustainable use of marine biodiversity is essential for our continent, and will be even more effective if we apply modern and sustainable approaches to the management of marine ecosystems, the principles of ocean governance and the management of the exploitation of marine resources.
‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on fisheries aspects in the framework of the international agreement on marine biodiversity in areas not under national jurisdiction, the un convention on the law of the sea, because i think it is based on a balanced and positive approach to one of the major challenges of the european fisheries sector, namely the achievement of the necessary balance between sustainability and biodiversity protection on the one hand, and economic activities and fisheries on the other.
since 1995, the international community has recognized the environmental impact of human activities on biodiversity and has taken important initiatives such as the signing of the unfsa, the establishment of specific working groups and, finally, the mandate to draft an internationally binding text by 2017. the eu, with its common fisheries policy, has always promoted very high environmental standards at international level, combining blue growth and environmental protection.
i also welcome the calls for the fight against illegal and unreported fishing, the need for better data on marine biodiversity in european seas and the call to take a leading role in the fight against plastic waste at sea.
as reported by the united nations, it is our duty to find a system of inter-agency laws to manage marine pollution and to safeguard the biodiversity in our waters.
‒ i am voting in favour of the report on fisheries aspects of the international agreement on marine biodiversity in areas not under national jurisdiction.
the report welcomes the decision of the united nations general assembly to develop an international instrument on the conservation and sustainable use of marine biological diversity in areas not under national jurisdiction by 2017. the report highlights the importance of including fisheries-related activities in this new instrument and the key role that the eu must play in the expansion of this new instrument and in the implementation process.
‒ i welcomed the report by mr nicolai on the decision of the united nations general assembly to develop a legally binding international instrument in the context of the unclos (un convention on the law of the sea) on the conservation and sustainable use of marine biological diversity in areas not under national jurisdiction by 2017. the report stresses the importance of including fisheries-related activities in this new instrument and the key role that the eu should play in the development of this new instrument and in the implementation process.
‒ i voted in favour of the rapporteur, norica nicolai, on the need to include fisheries in the international agreement on biodiversity.
the united nations has on several occasions addressed the problem of protecting the world's waters, thus acknowledging the real danger of water pollution and the need for sustainable development.
the latest un report also stressed the need to establish a comprehensive global regime for the conservation and protection of marine biodiversity in areas not under the jurisdiction of any state and to adopt a binding legal system.
one of the main objectives of this agreement was to promote international cooperation and coordination for the conservation and sustainable use of marine biological diversity in areas not under national jurisdiction.
finally, the united nations general assembly has succeeded in bringing the issue of the conservation and sustainable use of marine biological diversity in areas not under national jurisdiction to a point where it is possible to provide for an internationally legally binding instrument, which also includes fishing activities.
‒ with today's report, which addresses the issue of international governance of areas beyond national jurisdiction or high seas, the european union renews its commitment, alongside the united nations, to tackling the challenges associated with the conservation and sustainable use of marine areas.
in this context, the report supports the decision to develop a legally binding international instrument, under the un convention on the law of the sea, to promote international cooperation and coordination for the conservation and sustainable use of marine biological diversity in high seas areas.
i voted in favour of the report because i hope that this new instrument can offer effective solutions to problems such as illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, pollution and marine litter, which seriously damage marine habitats and ecosystems.
‒ i voted in favour of the text in which parliament expresses its position on the decision of the united nations general assembly to develop a legally binding international instrument in the context of the un convention on the law of the sea (unclos) focusing on the conservation and sustainable use of marine biological diversity in areas not under national jurisdiction, with a view to addressing current shortcomings.
currently, the united nations fish stocks agreement (unfsa) exists within the unclos framework, and is considered a good multilateral agreement that establishes a legal framework for the management of marine resources to address problems such as marine pollution, invasive human activities and other phenomena that threaten marine biodiversity.
this is an important step in the development of the blue economy, which has enormous potential for growth and jobs and should be achieved within the ecological limits of the marine environment, in particular through responsible and sustainable fishing.
‒ the union's zootechnical legislation aims to promote the free trade of breeding animals and their genetic material, ensuring the sustainability of the programme and the preservation of genetic resources.
in the context of this harmonization work, in continuity with the advice given by the committee on the environment, it is however necessary to promote high and effective standards and control mechanisms, for example by supporting a policy of competitiveness of european large breeds which is conscious, respects the various local breeds and thus protects biodiversity, and by promoting a privileged role of the international committee for the control of livestock performance in the development of zootechnical legislation.
‒ i voted in favour of this report today to promote the free trade of breeding animals and their genetic material, while ensuring the sustainability of breeding programmes and the preservation of genetic resources.
‒ the proposal for a regulation is part of the eu's zootechnical legislation package which aims to promote the free trade of breeding animals and their genetic material while ensuring the sustainability of breeding programmes.
eu legal acts should promote breeding and breeding enhancement initiatives and the competitiveness of the livestock sector without endangering the conservation of breeds and their biodiversity.
sustainability and conservation of breeds is of great importance to the eu.
the european union's zootechnical legislation aims to promote free trade within the eu and to facilitate the import of breeding animals and their genetic material, while ensuring the sustainability of breeding and conservation programmes for genetic resources and thus for all breeds existing in europe today.
a long-term strategy would be needed to help tackle the 'push factors' (conflict, persecution, ethnic cleansing, extreme poverty, violence, climate change and natural disasters) that force people into the hands of criminal networks of traffickers, who see them as the only way to reach europe.
improving the legislative proposal means, in a broader sense, meeting the expectations of citizens, who demand an increasingly clear and accessible regulatory framework and quick and effective responses to social, economic and environmental problems.
the intervention on legislation is an intervention which combats excessive bureaucracy while at the same time avoiding the risks of deregulation of entire sectors and the questioning of fundamental values such as social protection, environmental protection and the right to health.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because i realise that, working in this environment, we are now prisoners of an increasingly stringent bureaucracy and that is why reducing it by eliminating the regulatory burdens, of course in full respect of the treaties, represents, in my view, an improvement of the entire institutional machinery.
and is expected to lead to european legislation that is of the highest possible quality, that meets the expectations of citizens and stakeholders, and that ensures that strategic public objectives including consumer, environmental and social, and health and safety rules are not compromised.
the environment committee, of which i am a member, strongly supported the revision of regulation (ec) no 1924/2006 to remove the reference to nutritional profiles and essentially the traffic light labelling, which trivializes information on the nutrient content critical to health through the traditional traffic light colours.
this simplification and deregulation must not, however, have a negative impact on the health and safety of citizens, consumers, workers or the environment.
the assessment of competitiveness is central, but the economic, social and environmental consequences, and the impact on citizens' fundamental rights and gender equality, must also be considered.
in this respect, the final text of the report is positive, as it maintains the priority to be given to social dialogue and stakeholder dialogue, the maintenance of environmental and employment standards and consumer protection in the implementation of the programme.
improving regulation does not mean eliminating it, nor does it mean making it less ambitious in terms of environmental protection, consumer protection, safety, quality or social legislation.
it means the elimination of redundant rules, red tape and negative effects, as well as the achievement of strategic objectives and the creation of a harmonious regulatory environment in support of employment and business in europe.
it is in this context that shared responsibility can lead to common benefits: a strong and dynamic single market that can contribute to sustainable and long-term growth in europe and thus to the prosperity of its citizens.
‒ i voted against the report today because it describes a single european market which ignores social and environmental aspects altogether.
in addition to the free movement of goods, people, services and capital, we need above all a social market economy aimed at full employment and social progress, with a high level of protection and improvement of the quality of the environment.
among these, the part which stresses the importance of supporting sustainable socioeconomic growth in order to protect consumers and workers is particularly positive.
indeed, the creation of a more competitive and simpler regulatory environment in the single market will necessarily have to take account of the added value of eu rules that safeguard social and environmental rights and ensure full consumer protection.
‒ improving single market regulation means creating a competitive regulatory environment that supports jobs and businesses in europe.
if it can take account of social and environmental objectives and the importance of supporting socioeconomic growth that protects consumers and workers, as expressed in the report, the single market can boost economic growth and job creation in the eu.
the experience gained from the programme should encourage the commission and the member states to identify complementary and shared measures between the european social fund and the erasmus+ programme in order to enhance their impact and ensure economic sustainability.
to adopt complementary and shared measures between the european social fund and the erasmus+ programme; define programmes to remove obstacles and create the most favourable environment for the success of mobility initiatives; support the transition between mobility and work, consolidating the fight for the recognition of studies and skills.
we are increasingly seeing a successful erasmus programme, which has started sustainable mobility of young students and enabled the exchange of experiences and the development of skills essential for their academic and professional growth.
we voted in favour of those paragraphs that called for greater coordination with civil society in the programming phase, decent working conditions and pay for students and trainees, and a focus of vet on areas such as the circular economy, sustainable mobility and decarbonisation.
however, we believe that the report does not take a sufficiently firm position in condemning the failure of the measures taken so far to combat youth unemployment and in excluding the fossil fuel energy sectors and the companies operating in them from the ifp programming.
in view of these serious criticisms, which jeopardise the promotion of a truly equitable, sustainable and future-oriented access to mobility in vet, we did not vote in favour.
‒ learning and training mobility is important for personal development, social inclusion of young people, multicultural dialogue, tolerance, the ability to work in an intercultural environment and active citizenship have clearly demonstrated potential for high quality education and occupational skills.
the commission is therefore proposing to set up a european network of experts in the field of environmental protection.
if we really want to support our fishing communities and districts, and we must, there are two ways: firstly, derogations must be granted on the basis of regionalisation in order to create a fisheries policy which favours the productive environment rather than hindering it, and secondly, these fishermen must be supported by giving them priority in the allocation of emff funds and by progressively increasing the quotas allocated to small-scale fishermen.
for these reasons i voted in favour, particularly considering the incredible benefits that both islands and coastal regions could derive from the introduction of socially and ecologically sustainable fisheries.
attention to coastal fisheries requires a holistic view of the dynamics between environment, tourism, economy and innovation.
‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that coastal fishing plays a fundamental role in the development and economy of very large areas of the union and that it should therefore be supported in a consistent manner, especially in the drive towards innovation, so as to improve its profitability and sustainability.
it provides a high level of employment and is a socially and environmentally sustainable form of fishing.
in particular, priority should be given to projects focusing on the sustainable creation and maintenance of jobs, the introduction of new technologies in the promotion and marketing of fisheries products and services, the promotion of fisheries tourism and gastronomy linked to artisanal fisheries products, and all activities related to environmental protection, the development of renewable marine resources and the promotion of sustainable growth.
the commission and the member states should also progressively increase the quotas allocated to small-scale fishermen in order to promote this type of fishing which is socially and ecologically sustainable.
the report states that the revision of the technical measures framework must take account of the specificities of regional coastal fisheries and encourages the introduction of marine protected areas to promote sustainable fishing and facilitate the fight against irregular fishing.
data are needed to design actions and interventions adapted to local needs and to chart the path to a biologically, environmentally, socially and economically sustainable coastal fishery before reviewing existing legislation.
i also voted in favour of this because i believe that coastal fishing is not only a source of high employment but also a socially and environmentally sustainable form of fishing.
i therefore think it is essential to strengthen this activity by regionalising its regulation, because it is full of positive externalities not only in terms of social and economic cohesion but also in terms of environmental protection and development.
it therefore seems essential to pay more attention to this type of fishing, which is also more socially and ecologically sustainable.
as already recognised in the previous regulations on the common fisheries policy and the european maritime fund, these areas require further support to foster economically and environmentally sustainable growth.
i am particularly pleased that the report considers the possibility of using instruments which make it possible to implement activities which are complementary to traditional fishing such as catering, environmental services, cultural activities linked to fishing and tourism linked to sport fishing.
support of small costal fisheries means that we promote a more sustainable way of fishing and support the availability of local products for the local consumer.
both of these effects can help save us from negative environmental impacts.
‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on innovation and the diversification of small-scale coastal fishing in regions dependent on fishing because i am convinced that coastal fishing is a fundamental and indispensable activity for the economic, environmental and social fabric of those southern european territories which are experiencing sustainable growth and which have always been nourished by genuine forms of economy.
‒ coastal fishing is a very important type of fishery in eu countries, and is particularly important because it provides a high employment rate and is socially and environmentally sustainable.
given the importance of the environment and a sustainable economy, the diversification of fisheries must make use of the contribution of activities linked to renewable energy sources and environmental protection.
for most coastal and island areas it is a traditional form of fishing which is a way of life and a significant source of livelihood; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected and that the environment is protected.
the commission is therefore invited to initiate a procedure to amend existing legislation, in particular the 2006 regulation on management measures for the sustainable development of fisheries resources in the mediterranean, which has been adopted and which must be aligned with the new cfp.
this sector has always represented for our country not only an important economic and commercial resource, but also an opportunity to combine an activity with a strong social and cultural value with a more sustainable management of fisheries and environmental resources.
‒ for coastal and island regions, small-scale fishing is not only of particular importance for local development and employment, but also represents a socially and environmentally sustainable economic activity that must be protected and promoted.
i therefore voted in favour of the report which calls on the european commission to support, by specific measures, new opportunities for growth and development in coastal regions, through innovation and diversification of activities complementary to fishing, through investment in cleaner fishing vessels, environmental services linked to fishing, cultural and educational activities linked to fishing and tourism linked to sport fishing.
i also fully support the call for the regulatory framework on the sustainable management of fisheries resources in the mediterranean to be amended to allow the preservation and enhancement of traditional coastal fishing techniques, such as tuna fishing, so that a clear distinction is made between commercial and traditional fisheries in line with the different impacts on marine resources caused by the two types of fishing.
‒ the common fisheries policy (cfp) aims to make the fisheries and aquaculture sectors increasingly sustainable from an ecological, economic and social point of view.
for these reasons, the eu has committed itself to ensuring that sustainable fisheries agreements with third countries respect the environmental standards and the ecosystem approach that underpin the cfp.
in view of these considerations, i voted in favour, confident in the commitment of the european institutions to the protection and promotion of environmentally sustainable fisheries, including agreements with third countries.
‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the european union needs to use its soft power and international influence to reach an agreement that regulates the practice of ocean fishing and allows for an economically and biologically sustainable development of the sector.
many fleets from countries such as china, korea and taiwan operate under less stringent environmental, safety and social regulations.
the best strategy to achieve the goal of promoting sustainable fisheries is to use the eu's influence on the international scene to improve fisheries management and transparency standards, by promoting the harmonisation of eu and non-eu fleet rules on access to non-eez areas, fighting iuu fishing, improving fish supply for food security and supporting the work done mainly by women in the fisheries sector.
i would stress that the eu should not negotiate sustainable fisheries partnership agreements with third countries where corruption is an accepted practice.
the environmental aspect is, however, as has been stressed, also an end in itself and the text therefore also stresses the need to obtain more complete scientific information and data on the capture of animals.
the objective is to achieve a sustainable, ecological, economic and social fisheries based on transparency and the participation of each member state.
the eu has an obligation to ensure that sustainable fisheries agreements are based on the best possible scientific advice, stressing the importance of sustainable fisheries to safeguard the future of coastal communities, employment generated by the fisheries sector and food security.
i believe that the european parliament should have a more active role in the approval process, and should be informed at all stages of the conclusion or renewal of the sustainable fisheries partnership agreements, in order to increase transparency.
i also think that the call for the eu to make a stronger commitment to promoting social and environmental standards in third country fisheries and to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing should be welcomed.
‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on common rules for the application of the external dimension of the cfp, including fisheries agreements, because i believe that europe can and must play a role in promoting sustainable fishing standards internationally, spreading its principles and values also to third countries.
i am thinking of the eu as the driving force and promoter of international rules that ensure high social, environmental and biodiversity protection standards, ensure transparency, guarantee fair competition between vessels flying the flags of different countries and at the same time promote economic activity and specifically the fisheries sector.
it is our aim to promote the development and maintenance of sustainable fisheries beyond europe.
‒ there is great potential in 'blue growth' in the oceans, but as with ongoing operations in the oceans we need to ensure that it meets environmental standards, especially after the paris talks.
‒ i voted in favour of the issue under consideration, as i believe that the fishing practices of some countries at international level and with little regard for environmental sustainability, in addition to weakening the eu's competitiveness in the fisheries sector, have underlined the need for the eu to play a more central role in the international context.
different rules for different eu and non-eu fleets not only create a gap in competitiveness between companies, but also put the long-term sustainability of catches at risk.
in this regard, i believe it is crucial to involve local bodies, regional organisations, scientific institutes, observers and national fisheries associations at both european and extra-european level, which, through the exchange of best practice and greater knowledge of management measures, can help to combat illegal and unreported fishing more effectively and to promote a more responsible and sustainable exploitation of our precious resources.
the areas of cooperation are numerous: the european union has a long history of supporting the development of the region, from energy to border security, from the fight against the radicalisation of terrorism to education and agriculture.
we need to reform and improve dublin to ensure that solidarity and a fair sharing of responsibility is engrained in the new system, because the current one is simply not sustainable.
the european union is also committed to the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
the europe of which it dreams is to have a global political weight corresponding to its commercial weight, for which it is important that its voice be heard more and more and continue to effectively lead universal causes, such as, among others, financial transparency, which does not compromise with the discrediting of democratic systems, institutions and actors, and intergenerational environmental justice.
‒ i supported the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund concerning the request for technical assistance, on the initiative of the commission, as a reserve to finance the mid-term evaluation of the effectiveness and sustainability of the results achieved with the egf.
i believe that a more sustainable legal and budgetary framework should be established to enable humanitarian aid to be mobilised in the eu in the future, when circumstances require it.
i therefore welcome the commission's proposal to set up a european instrument to provide aid within the territory of the union and i hope that, in addition to the emergency, more structured and sustainable measures will be provided to deal with a situation which, as we all know, will not be resolved in the short term.
‒ appointed as a member of section ii - structural, transport and energy policies on 1 february 2014; he is also rapporteur for the economic, social and territorial cohesion chapter and is responsible for carrying out the audit for the purpose of the sda and the management control in the field of regional policy and the structural funds.
the latter are appointed by the council, after consulting the european parliament, for a renewable term of six years.
in 2010 he was appointed a member of the court of auditors, gaining a wide experience in the fields of 'structural, transport and energy policies' and 'revenue, research and internal policies', a thorough knowledge of the court of auditors' activities.
all 28 members of the court of auditors are appointed by the council, after consulting the european parliament, for a renewable term of six years.
‒ the court of auditors is a collegiate body composed of 28 members, one from each member state, who are appointed by the council, after consulting the european parliament, for a renewable term of six years.
the french agency for the environment, food and health (anses) has recently expressed its opinion, pointing out that certain mixtures of glyphosate with other substances may present important health risks, both for citizens and for those working in the agricultural sector.
in fact, we have turned an objection motion into a motion in support of a renewal for another seven years, simply, the health of citizens and the environment cannot be traded, but must come before business opportunities for companies.
for all these reasons, and because i believe that the commission's implementing regulation does not ensure high standards of protection of health and the environment, i have decided to vote in favour of the objection tabled in parliament today.
‒ i voted in favour of this objection because i consider that the draft commission implementing regulation does not ensure a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment, does not apply the precautionary principle and exceeds the implementing powers laid down in regulation (ec) no 1107/2009.
the review of the risk assessment of the active substance glyphosate by efsa is limited to glyphosate itself; while the iarc reviewed glyphosate together with its formulated products, which are more relevant in the assessment of risks to human health and biodiversity.
in addition, in view of the restrictive and precautionary measures taken by some member states and the opposition of some of them in the council of the european union, i believe it is of the utmost importance that the european commission postpone the decision on the extension of the marketing authorization for glyphosate and that, in the meantime, it carries out more in-depth studies on the effects of the substance on the environment and health.
furthermore, it is not possible to say with certainty that glyphosate residues do not pose a danger to human health, as well as to animals and the environment.
‒ the epp, together with a large majority in parliament, has reached an important compromise between the demands of agricultural production and those of health and environmental protection.
european legislation and the precautionary principle allow the eu to block the use of a substance that is potentially dangerous to human health and the environment, even in the presence of the slightest scientific doubt.
however, in order not to damage the commercial interests of multinational companies and lobbies, the majority of parliament has preferred to accept such a serious risk to man and the environment.
this is unfortunately what matters to the health of citizens and the environment in europe.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
we must therefore redouble our efforts to increase synergy and information sharing between member states, so that we can respond to the ever-changing challenges of the international environment through genuine european instruments.
‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the eu must ensure its internal and external resilience and its capacity to anticipate, prevent and resolve foreseeable challenges and threats, as well as its readiness to act quickly in the event of unforeseeable crises, as well as its capacity to recover from various types of attacks, as well as to safeguard the security of energy and raw materials supplies.
the current refugee crisis requires a holistic european approach and urgent and concerted action, using both external and internal instruments; calls for a long-term strategy and sustainable management of asylum, migration and readmission policies based on common principles and solidarity.
the eu now faces internal and external threats (including climate change, large migration flows and international terrorism) that are very different from those identified in the 2003 security strategy.
i think that the desire to seek greater solidarity between member states on security issues is fully understandable, as is parliament's call for effective use of the many international instruments available for managing the migration crisis and the attention paid to sustainable development and the protection of human rights.
issues such as internal and external security, the refugee crisis, regional conflicts, arms exports and climate change affect all member states and their citizens.
finally, i believe it is essential to involve the european union, national parliaments and european citizens in the implementation of a comprehensive strategy which takes account of the security environment and, where appropriate, new threats to the union's survival.
there are some shared parts of the report, such as the need to move towards collective solidarity between member states on security issues, the necessary long-term strategy to manage migration crises, the many references to sustainable development and respect for human rights as the guiding principles of the security strategy.
it is crucial to implement measures that ensure the security of energy and raw materials supply, to implement ambitious environmental policies to limit the effects of climate change, and to promote economic and industrial policies that look to the long term and enable the eu to play a leading role in global action.
all the key issues, such as respect for human rights, economic integration and energy cooperation, have been renewed in an organic and consistent way.
the main objectives include increasing the funds allocated to regional development, education and the development of the specific features of the territory, as well as support for the renewable energy and energy efficiency sectors.
by increasing development aid funds) and to encourage the diversification of the main energy suppliers for the european market, but it is equally important to make all agreements and economic aid conditional on the respect by the third countries concerned of fundamental human rights and strict democratic criteria.
the eu has a strong strategic, political and economic interest in strengthening its bilateral and multilateral relations with all central asian countries on the basis of shared common values, but the approach so far taken to structure relations with the central asian states has proven to be of limited sustainability and little success.
despite some aspects which are less agreeable, such as the section on energy security, i have decided to vote in favour of the report.
the countries concerned are therefore invited to make greater efforts to protect human rights, to support the development of renewable energy and to seek greater economic integration between the different regions.
central asia is a region of strategic importance to the european union in terms of economic potential, energy diversification and security interests.
trade and energy links between the eu and the countries of central asia and cooperation on security and stability need to be strengthened, bearing in mind the importance of democratisation, respect for human rights and the rule of law.
‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution under consideration, as i believe that cooperation with the asian region is of fundamental importance for strengthening the european union's neighbourhood policy and for intensifying trade and energy relations with asian countries.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i support the need to strengthen eu-asia relations in line with the review carried out by the eeas, the commission and the council in 2015. the redefinition of the objectives must allow a process of cohesion and prosperity in the region, whose political, economic and environmental stability is of fundamental importance for the union.
the implementation of the new strategic objectives of bilateral cooperation with europe must be based on the transfer of good practices, models and values that can support the central asian states in the process of regional cooperation and integration and give rise to social models based on respect for human rights, the rule of law, the modernisation of political structures and the overcoming of the serious economic and environmental problems that continue to destabilise the area.
in revising the eu-central asia strategy, the commission has included economic development, trade, investment, energy and transport as its main objectives.
we recognise that the measures proposed in the report are in the right direction in supporting increased development funding on the one hand and in conditioning its disbursement on the strengthening of democracy, human rights and fundamental freedoms, including access to education, gender equality and sustainable development, on the other.
we firmly believe that respect for these principles must prevail over any form of economic, commercial and energy relations.
in this respect, we support the perspective presented in the report that greater connectivity and cooperation with the countries of central asia can promote european energy diversification, solely and exclusively by working on the development of renewable energy and energy efficiency.
it is stressed that other eu projects such as the construction of the transcaspian gas pipeline are not justified by the forecasts of the evolution of european energy needs and should be reviewed as being contrary to the principles of sustainable development.
‒ the central asian region plays a key role for the eu in terms of economic potential, geostrategic interests linked to security and energy diversification.
there are some signs of stabilisation, and if we mobilise our energy we can still make real progress.
the focus of the energy union on addressing energy poverty is a concrete way of delivering on this commitment.
adequate and sustainable social protection is one of the three major headings of this pillar.
i am referring, for example, to the increase in targeted support for people living in poverty, measures to guarantee a minimum income, health care and adequate housing policies for the most vulnerable groups, the extension of the european fund for the poor, and support for social objectives in energy policy, ensuring not only environmental protection measures through the use of renewable sources, but also a further commitment to poverty prevention through the commitment to the introduction of a possible european moratorium on the suspension of heating in winter for households in particular economic difficulties.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the struggle for human and environmental rights in honduras is paying a very heavy price in blood.
according to the organization global witness, honduras is the most dangerous country in the world for environmental activism.
the government of honduras must commit itself to ensuring the safety of all human rights defenders, in particular those working in the field of environmental protection.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
the new package makes it clear to everyone that the eu is serious about protecting the rights of european citizens, helping to create the necessary climate of trust.
the reform package will benefit individuals by strengthening their fundamental rights and freedoms in relation to the processing of personal data and confidence in the digital environment.
the s&d group's efforts have led to the introduction of special safeguards for journalists, whistle blowers and workers with sensitive data who wish to change their working environment.
with one in five companies falling victim to theft of trade secrets every year, this harmonisation should create a safe and secure environment for european companies, which will have their intangible assets and know-how protected.
i believe that protection against the unlawful acquisition, disclosure and use of trade secrets is essential to ensuring a fair business environment for businesses.
taking into account the new risk environment linked to terrorist attacks, the new budget provides for an increase in resources for strengthening security measures and in particular cybersecurity.
in the current economic environment, the commitment to rigorous and effective management of resources remains strong, ensuring an adequate level of funding for parliament and european democracy while encouraging efforts to save and to improve the efficiency of the use of public funds.
i would stress that in the present economic climate these resources should be managed with rigor, pragmatism and efficiency.
economic waste is compounded by pollution from travel in a scenario where the eu is committed to reducing carbon dioxide emissions by 40% by 2030. i would remind you that the odyssey between brussels and strasbourg by plane, train, car, lorry, just to transport parliament's documents each time, costs 19 000 tonnes of co2 a year.
if governments really want to pursue efficiency and waste reduction - particularly within the eu institutions - a single seat for the european parliament is a good place to start.
as always, these resources are managed with intransigence and pragmatism, in order to allow the efficient conduct of our activities and to avoid waste or neglect.
i also think it is essential not to forget the strategic importance of turkey for the energy security of the european union and that is why cooperation must be stimulated so that growth and development can be derived from this relationship for both sides.
in addition, in this resolution the european parliament wishes to strongly condemn the intimidation of the media environment and i agree to express my deep concern at the deterioration over the last two years of the situation regarding freedom of speech, expression and opinion in the country.
more efforts are needed in the area of the protection of minors, the creation of adequate environmental legislation and the tackling of gender inequalities, but the republic of albania appears to be positively moving towards future eu membership.
increasing cooperation between the parties remains essential for the implementation of a sustainable reform process.
i am firmly convinced that sustainable cooperation between the government and the opposition in parliament is essential for albania's eu accession process and for the fulfilment of the accession criteria.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
i agree that the way forward is to reduce the main expenditure on private consumption by poor households by directing existing projects on renewable energy sources and energy efficiency to households exposed to energy insecurity.
the development of new housing policies, more effective energy policies, the introduction of sustainable pension systems and minimum income systems can be appropriate tools to combat a challenge of this magnitude.
in order to respond adequately to this crisis situation and to ensure that the commission's intention to have a 'triple a social' does not remain a dead letter, it is necessary to revive the debate as soon as possible on the possible adoption of a framework directive on the introduction of an adequate minimum income above the poverty threshold and on the introduction of new forms of taxation of large energy-intensive industries in order to find new resources to finance more effective measures to combat poverty, while discouraging energy inefficiency.
the social dimension is also needed in energy policy: the union's fight against poverty and poverty also involves reducing expenditure on energy consumption, which is the most important item in the household budget.
investments in energy-efficient housing and public buildings and the development of renewable sources should be a priority for the member states and the commission.
this report lays the foundations for this, focusing on renewable energy and energy efficiency for households exposed to energy insecurity.
it is clear that energy and consumer price policies can have an impact on poverty, particularly in disadvantaged groups, and i therefore believe that cooperation by all member states is needed to move towards the objectives highlighted in this report.
i therefore intend to vote in favour of a european strategy to end poverty, energy poverty and social exclusion, combining the commission's action, diversified according to the specific socioeconomic contexts of each member state, with action by the member states to make more effective use of european funds and to ensure the continuity of social services such as minimum income schemes, reduction of household energy costs and equitable access to adequate housing and health care.
the noble proposal sets out to consider how energy policies and consumer prices can have a positive impact on poverty and the most disadvantaged households.
in view of the increasing share of energy poverty and in the light of the union's role in providing effective and sustainable solutions to alleviate the most vulnerable consumers, it seems appropriate and essential to create a system that makes all energy costs accessible.
‒ we welcome with great interest and full agreement the meszerics report, whose main objective is to combat poverty by bringing social policy and energy policy closer together in the european debate.
we are confident that better targeting of eu funds to households in energy-insecure conditions can be the key to achieving this goal faster.
the proposal introduces the concept of a european moratorium on the suspension of heating services during the winter months, to protect households in the most difficult situation because of energy shortages or at risk of interruption of heating due to non-payment of bills.
in particular, member states should focus more on energy efficiency projects (which italy is already doing) to help disadvantaged households and, at the same time, promote models of environmental sustainability.
another equally important measure envisaged in the report is the approval of a winter moratorium to avoid cuts in the supply of energy to households in difficulty.
finally, i am also in favour of the creation of a european energy observatory.
‒ social policy and energy policy should be closely linked.
reducing the main expenditure of poor households for private consumption by targeting existing renewable energy and energy efficiency projects to households affected by energy poverty.
the full implementation of the new sustainable development goals, presented by the united nations in 2015, is an important test case for how a virtuous partnership between public and private entities can ensure a reduction in the poverty rate and positive growth of small and medium-sized enterprises.
‒ the report highlights several aspects, some of which are also shared, of the importance of the private sector in eu development and cooperation initiatives and projects; the transition to agriculture (with specific reference to the preventive involvement of the resident population) and the development of social services is largely sustainable.
i welcome the commission's initiative to support the private sector in becoming, together with other governmental and non-governmental development organisations and inclusive business models such as cooperative and social enterprises, an important partner in achieving inclusive and sustainable development in the framework of the united nations millennium development goals, which requires a commitment by the private sector to good governance, poverty reduction and wealth creation through sustainable investment, as well as reducing inequalities, promoting human rights and environmental standards and empowering local economies.
i believe that the public and private sectors are most efficient when they work together to create a healthy environment for investment and business activity and lay the foundations for economic growth.
i believe that involving the european and international business sector is the fundamental prerequisite for achieving sustainable development.
‒ the public sector now provides a significant part of the aid granted to promote sustainable economies in developing countries.
however, although private actors have played and continue to play a key role in the economies of these countries, they should ensure an environmentally sustainable economic model and one that promotes the economic empowerment of women.
moreover, recent estimates clearly show that private sector investment in developing countries often achieves high rates of return on energy and transport projects.
today, 90% of jobs in these countries are provided by private individuals who contribute to the sustainable growth of the country, thus making it possible to fight poverty.
the commission's efforts so far have been positive, and i therefore support the implementation of new, more strategic projects that will help create jobs and promote inclusive and sustainable development.
in the coming decades, the growth of the global population and the rise in income in today's developing countries will generate greater demands for food, water and energy.
for this reason, it is necessary for community actors to concentrate part of their investments in developing countries, where, although greater volatility and uncertainty remain, returns on capital are surprisingly high and guarantee well-being and employment for indigenous peoples, especially if they are geared to the creation of sustainable wealth.
‒ considering that population growth in developing countries will require more investment in development support in the coming years, considering that, according to some estimates, private sector investment in pvs is often associated with high rates of return, considering also that the involvement of private investors in agricultural development could be a stimulus for the development of farming techniques, encourage employment and promote sustainable development, considering, finally, that greater public-private partnership can be beneficial for these countries, i would like to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution.
by ensuring a more favourable and secure environment for businesses, they will be able to invest more and more responsibly and everyone will be able to benefit from the economic opportunities created by the private sector.
‒ the european union must work to promote a sustainable economy in the world to ensure the development of a more equitable and democratic society.
sustainable development must be promoted and supported, while respecting local customs and traditions in the areas of credit, food, rural, agri-food, fisheries, environment, aquaculture and social services.
we need to ensure that in future the eu bank will have the necessary personnel and financial resources, instruments and platforms to support eu external policy and development efforts, all the way to climate policies in particular.
over past years we have been delivering approximately eur 70 to 80 billion a year of investments in sound and sustainable projects, mostly inside the eu and increasingly also in our partner countries.
it is regrettable that on a subject that is dear to me, such as climate action, there have been many instances of funding being used for projects that are financially unsustainable, with damage that is difficult to repair after the time has elapsed compared to ambitious environmental sustainability projects.
these funds, as far as we are concerned, should finance, for the most part, european projects with very high added value and which are sustainable from both a social and environmental point of view, and not those infrastructure projects which are still based on fossil fuels and resources which are not renewable.
unfortunately, the eib still has some serious weaknesses: for example, it should develop stricter rules on conflicts of interest and should strengthen its control activities in order to improve information on final beneficiaries and to prevent more effectively transactions with financial intermediaries with a negative track record in terms of transparency, fraud, corruption, organised crime, money laundering and harmful social and environmental impacts or registered in offshore financial centres or tax havens that use aggressive tax planning practices.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
the commission is already working on simplifying the cap, through delegated and implementing acts, especially in terms of controls and penalties, but we believe that the mid-term review of the common agricultural policy can be a valuable opportunity to make more effective and efficient the spending of public money on agriculture and to increase environmental benefits.
this denies an increasing number of children the right to grow up in a peaceful and secure family environment.
however, this advice is too often ignored, resulting in a waste of resources and time.
we are totally against the waste of money that the eesc represents.
‒ the presentation by the commission of the fourth railway package is an important milestone in the integration of the european railway area, which is still too hampered by the presence of an environment that is not liberalised, not very dynamic and not favourable to business.
the zīle report, which i have supported today, is a significant contribution to the creation of an eu railway agency which is capable of producing sustainable growth in the sector, ensuring increased employment and economies of scale.
‒ railway interoperability and safety is a central element of the sustainable development model for the europe of the future.
nevertheless, the sector continues to suffer from barriers to competition, discrimination and the lack of a liberalized, dynamic and business-friendly environment.
railways are an important part of our transport industry, and one that we will have to depend on increasingly if we are to achieve our climate goals.
under these directives, several technical solutions (the 'technical specifications for interoperability', tsis) have already been developed, covering such fundamental aspects as train driving and safety, signalling, telematic applications for freight transport, the qualification of cross-border transport staff, freight wagons and noise emissions.
the safety and efficiency of european railways are an important part of the mobility of european citizens and of environmentally and socially sustainable development.
europe has spent much energy and money in recent decades on restructuring the railway sector, defining and setting up transeuropean networks, and introducing new technical and financial regulations to support their development.
‒ indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts directly or indirectly affect the vast majority of european citizens, but also various markets such as energy.
‒ given the influence of indices on the european financial system as well as on physical energy markets and thus on the majority of european citizens, it is necessary to emphasise that the current self-regulatory situation has proven inefficient.
following the instructions of the committee on budgetary control (cont), i have today decided to vote in favour of the dlabajová report on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the european commission and its six executive agencies: the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the european union.
cohesion policy is a recognised instrument for development and growth; in a low investment phase, it is in the commission's interest to put beneficiaries in the best position to make the best use of available resources, creating the right environment for a functional absorption of growth and job creation.
in addition, responsibility for the use of the union budget lies largely with the member states and 76% of expenditure is shared management: the commission has not yet succeeded in finding an effective control system to prevent abuse and waste, despite the fact that in recent years it has increasingly resorted to suspension of expenditure in cases of fraud.
the management and control costs (eur 4 billion) for the whole cap are considerable and the emphasis should be on improving the efficiency of controls rather than on increasing them: in this respect, member states should take preventive and corrective action in the field of public procurement, deliberate circumvention of rules and agri-environmental payments.
as regards the implementation of the ets, it is essential to take all necessary measures to avoid carbon leakage and to ensure fair international competition under the current measures for the free allocation of emission allowances, and the commission should therefore carry out an assessment of the companies and industrial sectors at risk of carbon leakage in order to clearly identify areas where european industry has experienced losses of activity to countries where no stringent climate standards are in place.
the proposal is divided into 25 parts and analyses in economic terms the following main themes: europeaid's results-oriented evaluation and monitoring (erm) systems; the principle of cost-effectiveness; eu support for the prevention of environmental damage; rural development; maritime transport; safeguards for young people; the energy market and the fight against torture and the death penalty.
‒ despite the fact that the text contains strong criticism of waste and numerous shortcomings, the motion for a resolution also retains some of the content that cannot be shared, which led me not to support it with my vote.
‒ despite the fact that the text contains strong criticism of waste and numerous omissions, the motion for a resolution also retains some of the content that cannot be shared, such as complacency for initiatives that we do not share at all or a certain exaggeration of the environmental issue.
the court of auditors' report adopted on 11 july 2014 shows that if parliament centralised its activities, the potential savings for the union budget would be around eur 114 million per year: a waste we can no longer afford.
for example, i will never cease to point out the enormous waste of the european parliament's two seats, which means that every month we have to travel to strasbourg for a week just to vote, when brussels provides the necessary structure to respond and adequately meet the needs of the european parliament.
i think it is time, when it comes to saving, to ask the right questions, especially since we already know the answers: no more waste!
these are just some of the problems identified, which in the eyes of european citizens represent a waste of resources and tend to increase their detachment and distrust of the community institutions.
the discharge report for the 2014 european budget in the section dedicated to the european court of auditors reveals some waste and shortcomings in budget implementation.
it is therefore clear that more attention is needed than ever before to the waste of resources which has been perpetrated for too many years and which has been completely eroded by the economic and social austerity we are living in.
only by following this guideline can a sustainable europe be built, in line with the union's savings policies.
‒ the political control exercised by parliament over the closure of each budget essentially makes it possible to check for any waste and maladministration in the institutions and then to call on them to make the necessary changes.
in the absence of waste and irregularities in management, parliament adopts a positive decision and closes the budget cycle.
in the case of the european ombudsman, i decided to abstain because i could not stand the waste and shortcomings in the implementation of the budget.
‒ i believe that, in view of the importance of the european ombudsman's office as a liaison institution between the local administrations of the individual member states and the european institutions, the expenditure has been managed with a clear focus on waste and in full respect of the principle of transparency.
following the instructions of the committee on budgetary control (cont), i have today decided to vote in favour of the vaughan report on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the agency for the cooperation of national energy regulators.
‒ although balanced, there are passages in the text giving discharge to the agency for the cooperation of national energy regulators which i do not share.
‒ i voted in favour of discharge for the 2014 budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) because i believe that its finances have been managed in a prudent manner and in line with the budget forecasts for the year in question.
‒ while generally respecting the guidelines and good financial management rules, the lack of a european training school on energy and, above all, the limited information provided on the work carried out on the resolution of conflicts between national regulators are highlighted.
‒ i voted today in favour of the position of the committee on budgetary control granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2014 because the court of auditors, in its report on the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014, states that it has obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the agency's annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
the final budget for cooperation between national energy regulators for the financial year 2014 was eur 10 880 000, which represents a decrease of 8,80% compared to 2013, according to the agency's financial statements.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution as it sets out, in a rigorous and systematic way, the specific problems of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer).
‒ following the court of auditors' certification of the reliability and regularity of the financial operations of the agency for cooperation between national energy regulators, i have decided to express my vote in favour of the discharge procedure for the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing.
‒ i voted against the granting of budgetary discharge to the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators.
‒ the parliament's proposal for a decision on the discharge to be given to the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) is based on the legality and regularity of the various operations of acer, as defined by the court of auditors in its report.
i voted against the discharge because the waste in the budget is unacceptable.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because i could see from the data it contains how the economic resources available to this office were used, firstly in the full attention to waste and secondly for the operationality and efficiency of the work of the various agencies operating within the european union.
i have decided to vote against the discharge because of the shortcomings in the financial planning and because of the enormous waste in the budget.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
i have decided to vote against the discharge because i cannot support the waste in the budget.
i have decided to abstain from voting because there are still too many unresolved issues in the management of conflicts of interest; in addition, there is still a clear budgetary waste.
‒ in view of the importance of the work carried out by the echa regulator and its leading role in the implementation of european chemicals legislation, i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the echa budget for the financial year 2014. echa is constantly committed to the protection of human health and the environment and benefits from the revenue guaranteed by companies for the registration of chemicals, which has allowed it to fully finance its operations.
the procedure under consideration allows parliament to identify any waste by suggesting cuts or alternative strategies.
as regards the european environment agency, there are shortcomings in financial programming and potential conflicts of interest.
following the instructions of the committee on budgetary control (cont), i have today decided to vote in favour of the vaughan report on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the european environment agency.
‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2014 budget of the european environment agency (eea) because i believe that its finances have been managed in a prudent manner and in line with the budget forecasts for the year in question.
‒ today i voted in favour of the position of the committee on budgetary control granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2014 because the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european environment agency for the financial year 2014, states that it has obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014. i am concerned, however, as the court of auditors' report shows, that, as regards internal controls, although ex ante and ex post controls are incompatible tasks, the internal auditor was involved in both.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution as it sets out, in a rigorous and systematic way, the specific problems of the european environment agency (eea).
‒ the report is clear: the european environment agency has managed its finances well.
‒ with the climate challenge at the top of the agenda of the european institutions, the mission of the european environment agency is of great importance, as it provides scientific information for the formulation of european environmental policies.
‒ i voted against the discharge for the european environment agency.
‒ the court of auditors noted that there was no significant error in the expenditure of the european environment agency (eea) and that most of the activities were carried out in a lawful and regular manner.
‒ in the light of the court of auditors' statement on the assurance of the reliability of the agency's annual accounts, i support the report approving the discharge to the executive director of the european environment agency in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. i therefore vote in favour.
i voted against the discharge because i could not support certain waste and shortcomings in the implementation of the budget.
i voted against the motion for a resolution because there is still too much waste in the budget.
‒ five years after its creation, the institute is still the main funder of the 'knowledge and innovation communities', initiatives which have not achieved financial sustainability at all.
generally speaking, in the light of the court of auditors' annual report, a positive decision is justified by budget implementation free from waste or inefficiency.
as regards the european medicines agency (ema), i voted against the discharge because it shows waste and inefficiency.
‒ budget commitments are down by 2.4% on the previous year, but the sustainability of the financial situation is generally highlighted.
‒ i have noticed, in analysing this report, how the economic resources available to this office have been used, firstly, in full attention to waste and, secondly, to optimise the operation and efficiency of the work of this agency.
i voted against the discharge because i cannot support certain waste and shortcomings in the implementation of the budget.
the contribution of the agency in terms of maritime safety, prevention of pollution caused by ships and assistance to member states and the commission in the framework of international and union law is of considerable importance.
as regards enisa, i voted against the discharge because i could not support certain waste and shortcomings in the implementation of the budget.
i welcome the fact that the agency has adopted internal policies to improve the viability and environmental compatibility of its facilities.
a major step forward towards meeting these two needs was the adoption in january 2015 of a paperless platform for the workflow and storage of internal documents: the agency has virtually eliminated all paper-based workflows, including financial transactions and human resources files and documents, and replaced them with electronic documents and workflows in an attempt to achieve a paperless office environment.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the union agency for network and information security for the financial year 2014. the agency has produced a number of positive results in relation to the financial year 2014 through a series of actions, such as the adoption of internal policies aimed at improving the cost-effectiveness and environmental compatibility of its facilities by eliminating paper-based workflows and replacing them with electronic workflows and documents.
however, the use of two locations (lille and valenciennes) for the performance of its functions exposes the agency to additional costs and constitutes a waste of european taxpayers' money.
i voted against the discharge because i could not support certain waste and shortcomings in the implementation of the budget.
‒ under regulation no 1077/2011 the commission was responsible for the establishment and operation of the agency until it was granted financial autonomy in may 2013. i voted against the discharge because i cannot support the waste and the shortcomings in the implementation of the budget.
however, i voted against the discharge because the implementation of the budget is not without waste and inefficiencies.
i voted against the discharge because i cannot support the waste and the shortcomings in the implementation of the budget.
i voted against the discharge because i could not support certain waste and shortcomings in the implementation of the budget.
thanks to the artemis initiative, substantial developments are also taking place in the related fields of embedded information systems, innovative medicines, aeronautics and air transport, hydrogen and fuel cells, and global monitoring for the environment and safety.
‒ the clean sky research programme (which is part of the single european sky objective) aims to develop new technologies to reduce the environmental impact of european air traffic.
following the instructions of the committee on budgetary control (cont), i have today decided to vote in favour of the marinescu report on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the joint undertaking - aviation and environment.
‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2014 budget of the joint undertaking - aviation and environment (clean sky) because i believe that its finances have been managed in a prudent manner and in line with the budget forecasts for the year in question.
in quantitative terms, one of the main objectives of clean sky is to reduce co2 emissions by 50%, nox by 80% and noise pollution by 50% by 2020. in addition to clean sky, five other similar initiatives are planned in the fields of miniaturisation, invisible computer systems, innovative medicines, hydrogen and fuel cells, and global environmental and safety surveillance.
the important role of enterprise in creating a dynamic ecosystem of innovative small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) should not be overlooked.
the main objective is therefore to support the nanoelectronics sector in europe by creating investment opportunities in research and development and human capital through the promotion of strategic and sustainable public-private partnerships.
‒ the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking (fch and fch2) is a public-private partnership in the field of energy.
a greater and better coordinated effort at continental level is needed to ensure that european players in the field have a favourable environment in which to pursue their research activities in order to achieve the ambitious objectives set.
‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge procedure for the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. the joint undertaking, through the proper management of funding, has ensured the improvement of the system for monitoring the research results of its projects and has contributed to the implementation of the seventh framework programme on energy.
‒ the joint undertaking for the international thermonuclear experimental reactor (iter) and the development of fusion energy is a public-private partnership in the field of energy.
following the instructions of the committee on budgetary control (cont), i have today decided to vote in favour of the marinescu report for the postponement of the discharge for the 2014 budget for the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy.
‒ i agree with the marinescu report on the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy and therefore support the request for a referral back to the discharge decision.
‒ i voted in favour of the decision against granting discharge for the 2014 budget to the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy because i believe that the management of its financial resources is less transparent than it could be and that there is a need for a clear improvement in this regard.
fusion energy is, along with renewable energy and fission energy, one of the three alternatives to fossil fuels.
it is by far the most widespread in the universe but at the same time the least developed on earth of these three non-fossil energy sources.
the joint european torus (jet) project, which started in 1978, has contributed for several years to cutting-edge research in the field of fusion energy.
since 1988, the development of the iter project has marked a new stage in fusion and led in 2001 to a detailed design for an experimental plant, intended to demonstrate the feasibility of fusion as an energy source from which the eu could derive important benefits, especially in order to ensure the security and diversity of its energy supply in the long term.
‒ in view of the correct use of financial resources as assessed by the court of auditors, i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge procedure for the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2014.
in writing.
‒ i am voting in favour of the motion for a decision tabled by parliament on the discharge to be given to the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy.
‒ given that the european union has put in place legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to companies for the development of fusion energy, i voted in favour of the proposal of my colleague regarding the 2014 budgetary year of the european joint undertaking iter.
since 2007, sesar has been helping to modernise air traffic management in europe by improving costs, capacity, safety and environmental impact.
the eib should also focus its lending more on environmental sustainability and the resulting job creation, with a particular focus on youth-related projects.
there will be no benefits for citizens, the environment and smes, because today the lobbies of fossil fuels, of useless and harmful mega-infrastructures and of finance continue to be considered privileged recipients.
public and private investment is key to generating robust and sustainable growth that strengthens europe's position in global competition.
‒ whereas the european investment bank has as its priority objective to provide financial support for projects which contribute, in the full interest of the european union, to the balanced development of the market and to social, economic and territorial cohesion; that the latest challenges facing the eu, such as the financial crisis before and the migrant crisis now, require a redefinition of the eib's role in investment; i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
approval of project financing must be based on careful analysis of the financial sustainability and the added value to the european economy of each project.
in the field of economic and social cohesion, the importance of taking account of the different economic recovery times of the member states is emphasised, so that the eib's public policy objectives are set in a manner consistent with the changing economic environment.
i also believe it is essential that the eib strengthens its climate action in europe's major economies and in the new member states by allocating by 2020 30% of total climate investment to them.
the pilot project will also provide a platform for the exchange of information on the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and sustainable development.
unfortunately, the eib still has some serious weaknesses: stricter rules on conflicts of interest and enhanced control activities by the authority are needed to improve information on final recipients and to prevent more effectively transactions with intermediaries with a negative track record in terms of transparency, fraud, corruption, organised crime, money laundering, adverse social and environmental impacts or registered in offshore financial centres or tax havens that use aggressive tax planning practices.
although the process of increasing the transparency of the work of the european institutions has been under way for some time and is gradually leading to a significant improvement in the environment, it still presents several criticisms.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a very good one.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on public access to documents for 2014 and 2015 because i think this is an important issue given the general climate of mistrust of citizens in the eu.
the aim is to translate the objectives of balanced and sustainable development, which article 2 of the treaty assigns to the union, into action at the territorial level.
member states should use cohesion policy financial instruments for projects aimed at creating opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises and fostering investment, sustainable and inclusive growth and social investment, as well as contributing to poverty reduction and promoting social inclusion.
if built, nord stream 2 will have to fully comply, just like any other infrastructure project, with applicable european union law, including on energy and environment.
against the background of colliding legal regimes, nord stream 2, if built, has to be operated under a legal framework which also takes due account of the key principles of our energy market rules.
in the last few years, the commission’s most important objective with regard to the central and eastern european member states has been to foster progress in making the gas market more secure, competitive and diversified, thanks to the european union’s internal energy market infrastructure, development and competition enforcement.
in this context, let me mention the commission’s energy security strategy of may 2014, supported by european union member states and this parliament, and the security of supply package originally proposed, with legislative proposals aimed at improving the security of supply of the european union and in particular the more vulnerable regions.
we have made a lot of progress in implementing the third energy package across europe and we have to make sure that no market operator is able to leverage its dominant position to the detriment of consumers.
the commission stands ready to continue this successfully proven format and to enlarge the trilateral talks to the negotiation of a new transit contract with russia and ukraine as the current one comes to an end in 2019.
i am in favour of the creation of energy infrastructure such as the strengthening of external supplies and the identification of solutions to expand energy supplies so as to better modulate supply and costs in europe.
there is no doubt that we need more instruments, more infrastructure, to respond more flexibly to changes in the energy market and consumption.
however, it seems clear to me - and i share what we have heard from president buzek - that the project to double the nord stream gas pipeline does not go in this direction and represents a step backwards compared to the ambitions for the coordination of energy policies that the european commission outlined just a few months ago, in february 2015, in its communication on the energy union, and that this parliament amended and endorsed with the resolution of 15 december.
firstly, nord stream increases energy dependence on a single supplier, namely the russian gas giant gazprom, and creates the conditions for the exercise of a dominant market position.
finally, it is a vulnus in the definition of the future european energy architecture because it is a precedent, according to which a member state has completely free hands in deciding the energy strategy which must involve all european countries.
anyone in europe and the world who has any familiarity with energy and the european union is smiling at the development of this project, because if we were to sit down and try to create an example of a school that could contradict all the objectives that the european union is setting itself in the field of energy, we would not find a suitable example like this.
let me say from the very beginning that i heard some honourable members stressing that we were discussing gas too much and we should concentrate on other sources of energy.
it is clear that after the paris agreement on climate change, we are on a path of decarbonising our economies and developing renewables and energy efficiency, but it is also clear that it will take some time.
the european union has made a lot of progress in opening up and integrating energy markets.
but what i can say is that in the commission we are convinced that european union law needs to be applied, including the principles of energy law, which also need to be applied in the case of the offshore part.
what i can say in conclusion is that we all agree that energy produced in the european union must be fully aligned with european union core policy objectives, including energy security.
we have the opinion, we hear the honourable members, but i must say that just last wednesday we had the energy council with the united states and we also discussed this topic, because it is a problem of geopolitical importance and is worth discussing in our bilateral relations with the united states.
the nord stream 2 project, operated by the russian gas company gazprom, runs counter to the objectives of the energy union and undermines solidarity between member states.
there are also legal and environmental concerns.
the project is not economically justified and would have negative consequences for the marine environment of the baltic sea.
furthermore, nord stream 2 operates only on the basis of russian laws and does not comply with european energy and environmental standards.
i therefore ask the commission to put an end to the nord stream 2 project as soon as possible and to concentrate on south stream which is the real long-term solution to ensure energy supplies to european citizens.
the replacement of one species by another is not only an economic fraud but also an environmental problem, since it allows endangered or illegally fished species to enter the market, and this of course also poses a risk to the health of consumers.
and when fishing in third country waters, there must be adequate support for local fisheries for sustainable development.
our fight, on the other hand, is to make global trade fair and sustainable.
in the field of the environment, they go around the world to make a fuss, to say that we must not pollute, rightly, and then there are some who think of making deals with those who do not comply with any regulations in terms of the environment, in terms of trade unions, in terms of health, in terms of wages.
we have fought so hard for workers' rights, environmental rights, fundamental rights in this europe which may or may not be liked, but it is there, perhaps it must be changed but it must not be closed, i would like to say this.
we need less ingenuity, less theory and more defence of true excellence, of a strong and sustainable development model like the european one.
mr president, when we talk about china, we are talking about an economy which produces 80% of its energy from coal, which uses 40 different types of subsidies to enterprises and which ruthlessly practices unfair competition aimed at destroying european industries and slaughtering our workers.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is essential for the european union to encourage lasting, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, which finds its real and natural outlet in the creation of conditions to promote youth employment.
part of the eu contribution is earmarked for the sustainable development of the area.
the terms of the agreement allow for greater transparency, so as to foster a culture of sustainable development.
in particular, foreign fishing vessels have severely compromised liberian fish stocks through their activity, damaging not only the marine ecosystem but also the potential sources of income of indigenous fishermen.
the wałęsa report, which i supported with my vote, approves the conclusion of the new sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and liberia.
this is a major agreement which, in return for funding to liberia for scientific research, artisanal fishing and the monitoring and combating of illegal fishing, will guarantee the european ocean fleet access to the liberian eez and its fish resources, while strictly adhering to the principles of sustainable fisheries and aquaculture management.
‒ the report on the eu-liberia sustainable fisheries partnership agreement is well structured and free of criticism.
i therefore welcome the conclusion of a first bilateral agreement between the eu and liberia to foster the development of increasingly sophisticated and sustainable fishing practices, while at the same time tackling illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, in line with the eu's overall strategy on this matter.
the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement (sfp) and its protocol will strengthen eu-liberia cooperation in tackling this phenomenon, allowing for increased capacity to control fish stocks, enhanced protection of marine ecosystems and a more responsible use of marine resources.
‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that this eu-liberia sustainable fisheries partnership agreement will allow european fleets to access the fishery resources of liberia's exclusive economic zone (eez) and, at the same time, allow local fishermen to maintain a share of the fishery that will allow them to sustain themselves and their future development.
‒ today i voted in favour of the partnership agreement with liberia because it is consistent with both the objectives of the common fisheries policy and the principles of sustainable management of fisheries.
the agreement promotes a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and for the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the liberian fishing zone.
i have in particular appealed a transparency provision, a key element in promoting sustainable fisheries, which requires the publication of any agreement (public or private) allowing access to liberian waters by foreign-flagged vessels.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because, in my view, in the formation of a partnership agreement between the european union and liberia for sustainable fisheries, it lays a solid foundation for genuinely promoting sustainable and economically viable fisheries management.
it was an important vote for me because i believe that this report sets out the objective of using these resources not only with due regard for our ecosystem, but also with a view to the future, to generate prosperity and to enable the exploitation of this resource by future generations as well.
‒ i welcome the first sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and liberia, as such cooperation would contribute to the eu's objectives in the fight against illegal fishing and to the dissemination of standards for the sustainable management of fisheries and aquaculture.
the promotion of the partnership framework for the development of sustainable fisheries and the responsible exploitation of fishery resources in the liberian fishing zone is a shared interest of the european union and liberia.
‒ the sustainable fisheries agreement with liberia runs for five years and allows european vessels, especially spanish and french, to fish in the waters of liberia's exclusive economic zone.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution to support the conclusion of the first sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and the republic of liberia already presented by the council.
i believe this is a step forward in the framework of the sustainable fisheries partnership agreements, which will give the eu access to fisheries in liberia's exclusive economic zone and technical and financial support to liberia, in view of the joint objectives of combating illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing and sustainable management of fisheries resources and ecosystems.
‒ on 5 june 2015, the european union signed the first sustainable fisheries partnership agreement with the republic of liberia, together with its implementation protocol.
today the european parliament gave the final go-ahead for the conclusion of the agreement, which promotes a strategic framework between the european union and liberia in the fisheries sector and allows the development of a sustainable fisheries policy capable of ensuring responsible and economically viable exploitation of fishery resources in the liberian fishing zone, where important tuna fishing areas are located.
‒ i voted in favour of the eu-liberia sustainable fisheries partnership agreement, whose objectives meet the requirements of the eu's common fisheries policy.
‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation concerning the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of liberia.
i believe that these agreements are not only consistent with the common objectives of the fisheries policy, but also provide for a sustainable and economically viable management of the fisheries sector, which can bring many benefits to both parties in the long term.
this agreement will make it possible, through improved monitoring, control and surveillance (mcs), to develop a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible use of resources and to support the fight against illegal fishing.
for these reasons, i am voting in favour of the eu-liberia partnership agreement for sustainable fisheries.
‒ i am in favour of the recommendation concerning the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of liberia and the implementation protocol thereto.
this is the first partnership agreement between the republic of liberia and the european union on sustainable fisheries, with the aim of strengthening and consolidating cooperation between liberia and the european union in the global fight against unregulated fishing.
‒ in view of the widespread use of practices harmful to the environment and wildlife in the atlantic tuna fishery, we warmly welcome the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and liberia.
the agreement will serve the dual purpose of promoting sustainable conditions and practices in fishing and ensuring good growth opportunities for european operators.
the partnership, through cooperation between the agency for the control of marine resources and the european commission, the reference to the conventions of the international labour organisation, and the imposition of rules to protect marine biodiversity, with particular reference to the populations of tuna, will ensure conditions of greater environmental and social sustainability.
during the conflict, the lack of control over fish stocks led to the exploitation of the marine ecosystem by foreign fleets and a decline in the atlantic population.
in addition, given the eu's economic interests in tuna fishing, the conclusion of the agreement in june 2015 would ensure greater security of rights for eu vessels as well as the sustainable management of fisheries and aquaculture activities.
‒ the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement (spa) with liberia and its implementation protocol are consistent with the objectives of the common fisheries policy and the principles of sustainable management of fisheries and aquaculture.
it also promotes a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the liberian fishing zone.
i voted with the epp group in favour of this report which gives a positive assessment of the eu-liberia cooperation agreement on sustainable fisheries in a resource rich area.
the aim of the agreement is to strengthen, alongside trade cooperation, control and monitoring of the sustainable exploitation of resources.
‒ i voted in favour of the legislative resolution by which the european parliament gives its consent to the conclusion of the first sustainable fisheries partnership agreement and its implementation protocol between the european union and the republic of liberia.
i believe that this agreement can not only bring many economic benefits to both parties, but also help to strengthen monitoring, control and surveillance in order to prevent iuu fishing and ensure the sustainable exploitation of fishery resources in the region.
‒ i voted in favour of the eu-liberia partnership agreement for sustainable fisheries.
finally, the partnership is in line with the common fisheries policy (cfp) by ensuring that fishing activities in liberian waters are conducted in compliance with the principles of sustainability, transparency, non-discrimination and human rights.
the financial contribution from the eu-mauritania has been substantially reduced and part of the contribution is earmarked for the sustainable development of the area.
the agreement, which provides for a financial contribution for access rights and support for the promotion of sustainable fishing, will give european vessels access to the country's exclusive economic zone for four years and allow them to exploit the country's fish stocks, in particular shrimp, tuna, demersal and pelagic fish.
i therefore support the adoption of this new protocol, which is more balanced and transparent, and which also gives greater weight to environmental sustainability and the socioeconomic dimension of the agreement, for example by providing for the obligation to recruit a substantial proportion of crews from mauritanian fishermen, to the benefit of local employment.
in addition, a financial contribution of 16.5 million for the entire period of the agreement (4,125 million per year, compared with 3 million under the previous protocol) is intended to stimulate the sustainable development of the fisheries sector; the agreement would provide for equal treatment of eu fleets (in the past, sometimes penalized compared to those of other states).
the increased support for local fisheries in mauritania also demonstrates the eu's strong commitment to developing the fleets of the countries with which it has agreements, and the eu's desire to export the model of environmental, economic and social sustainability promoted under its fisheries policy.
in addition, a financial contribution of 16.5 million is provided for the entire period of the agreement, which is intended to stimulate the sustainable development of the fisheries sector and the protection of the environment, marine protected areas and coastal areas.
i therefore voted in favour of the partnership which i have signed, a necessary instrument for the development of sustainable fisheries and the responsible exploitation of fishery resources in mauritania.
the objective is also to strengthen cooperation between the european union and the islamic republic of mauritania with a view to establishing a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fishery resources in the fishing zone of the islamic republic of mauritania, in the interests of both parties.
the agreement also provides for a reduction in the financial contribution that the eu will have to pay to mauritania annually compared to the previous protocol, the sum will amount to eur 55 million instead of eur 67. it is very important that the eu respects its obligation to promote environmentally and socially sustainable fisheries in developing countries, and that is why i am voting in favour.
i voted in favour of the new protocol because i believe it is a positive milestone for the eu, which will contribute to responsible fishing and sustainable management of fisheries resources, including through enhanced transparency measures.
another important aspect of this agreement is the support that the eu will provide to mauritania and its fishery sector, including the employment of mauritanian citizens on eu ships for increased employment and eu support to build an effective and sustainable fisheries sector, a major provider of food to mauritania.
that is why, on the basis of the above considerations, i am voting in favour of the agreement with mauritania to provide financial support and to promote sustainable development of both fisheries and the environment.
the european union will pay mauritania eur 55 million annually to allow european vessels access to its fishing zone, with a further financial contribution of eur 16.5 million to stimulate the sustainable development of the fisheries sector.
‒ in view of the social and economic circumstances in mauritania, the fishing practices that are harmful to the marine ecosystem and the historical presence of european fishing fleets in mauritian waters, we vote in favour of the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and mauritania.
the agreement will ensure that european fishermen and operators exploit a significant fish stock in an environmentally friendly manner in coastal zones and protected areas, with a view to developing a sustainable and responsible fishing model.
in return, the eu will provide mauritania with €59.125 million per year - €55 million for eligible catch totals and €4.125 million to stimulate the sustainable development of the fisheries sector in mauritania.
i therefore voted in favour and hope that the transparency provisions of the latest protocol with mauritania, which provides for the publication of all agreements with states or private entities granting foreign vessels access to their exclusive economic zone (eez), will be included in all future sustainable fisheries partnership agreements (sfps).
equity and sustainability must also translate into adequate support for local fisheries for sustainable development.
in line with the opinion already expressed in the committee on industry, research and energy, i voted in favour of this report.
‒ participatory local development (pla) and integrated territorial investment (iti) are the new instruments envisaged by cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020 to promote integrated strategies for sustainable urban development.
while i share the view that iti and clld can play an important role in addressing the multiple, closely interlinked challenges facing urban areas (social, demographic, economic and environmental) and that they can therefore only be overcome through an integrated approach, i believe that action is needed to simplify them also in order to reduce administrative costs.
by offering the potential to improve employment opportunities, promoting sustainable and inclusive growth and fostering poverty reduction and social inclusion, cohesion policy is shaping up as a tool for territorial development.
my vote in favour of this resolution is to support integrated national and regional policies aimed at concrete and sustainable results that meet the objectives identified by the eu programmes.
in the framework of the european structural and investment funds, two new instruments have been introduced for the 2014-2020 programming period to achieve the territorial cohesion objective: participatory local development (clld), a new instrument to be used at subregional level, and integrated territorial investments (iti), used to achieve the objective of sustainable urban development, as well as being used for other types of territory.
on the one hand, local participatory development (clld) with the aim of strengthening synergies between local actors, both public and private, on the other hand, integrated territorial investments (iti) that can be used to achieve the objective of sustainable urban development, as well as being used for other types of territory.
the interest in an integrated approach on a territorial basis is supported by the new cohesion policy for the 2014-2020 programming period, and is important for the purpose of greater flexibility of eu programmes and better use of european funds allocated in a manner consistent with local specificities, in order to achieve sustainable economic outcomes and to address structural problems, first and foremost youth unemployment.
the new erdf regulation provides for 5% of its budget to be allocated to sustainable urban development.
the final text also provides for the creation of a new executive agency of the commission and thus a further waste of public money from the citizens of the european union.
in order to assist the commission, it has also been envisaged to set up an additional agency (balance of payments committee) which, in my view, represents a further waste of public money from the union.
this is a large proportion of european territories whose growth and sustainable development opportunities are severely limited by undeniable structural difficulties.
while the reference to the key role of smes in the process of sustainable development and economic growth is admirable, the same cannot be said of the reference to financial instruments.
‒ mountain regions are an area that is fundamental to the economic, social and sustainable development of many member states and, in general, a source of ecosystem services that are essential for the whole union.
increased connectivity and accessibility, together with a strong investment in renewable energy, can make europe's mountains real centres of green growth.
only by creating these new catalysts for sustainable development within the eu can we stop the depopulation of our mountains and make them more suitable places to live and work.
‒ the richness of natural resources and the invaluable agricultural and manufacturing heritage of mountain areas represent a huge resource for the european union, both in environmental and employment terms.
we can think of the abundance of renewable energy sources or the opportunities for developing quality green jobs, offering sustainable economic development to mountain areas.
‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe it is important that the union adopt a targeted strategy for the eu's mountain regions, which represent 30% of the eu's territory and one of its main biodiversity basins, to enable them to be safeguarded and developed sustainably.
these are highly sensitive areas, with unique and contrasting characteristics, which require special attention: while they suffer from problems of peripheral location, depopulation, ageing of the population and a particular territorial configuration, which places major constraints on many economic and productive activities, they make a fundamental contribution, through their rich ecosystems, to the fight against climate change and the protection of biodiversity.
in addition, precisely in response to these problems and their management, mountain areas can become - and in some cases already are - privileged laboratories for promoting the development of new practices capable of combining economic well-being and ecological sustainability.
finally, great emphasis was also placed on the issues of connectivity and accessibility of mountain regions, often isolated, which can only become more attractive for living in or for sme settlement if it is possible to envisage and achieve growth that is at the same time smart, sustainable and inclusive.
finally, the reference to the fundamental role of small and medium-sized enterprises in the development of mountain regions, the role of social enterprise and alternative business models for inclusive development and environmental protection should also be appreciated.
i therefore voted in favour of this report, which i believe lays a solid foundation for better social, economic and territorial cohesion, offering sustainable economic development to mountain areas.
given that mountain regions offer a number of opportunities to achieve the eu's employment, cohesion and environmental objectives through the sustainable use of their natural resources, i believe it is necessary to give priority to the territorial dimension of cohesion policy through targeted initiatives for territorial development and additional support for territorial cooperation at european level.
moreover, by virtue of the abundance and variety of renewable energy sources and their dependence on resource and energy efficiency, mountain regions can contribute to the development of new technologies and to innovation more generally.
a coordinated approach is essential in whatever form it is implemented, in order to ensure that eu funding is strategically directed towards achieving sustainable and inclusive growth.
‒ mountain regions play an essential role in the economic, social and sustainable development of the member states: can contribute to the development of new technologies and increase the use of renewable energy; manage ecosystems with specificities in terms of biodiversity; their activities have a crucial impact on many economic sectors.
this wealth exposes mountain areas to specific needs and significant challenges, including the scarcity of usable land, climate change, off-season employment and environmental protection.
in particular, i hope that the new european agenda for the development of mountain regions will take account of the shortcomings of local smes in terms of infrastructure, connectivity and human resources, providing effective instruments to encourage a multi-faceted agricultural production linked to the development of tourism and environmental protection activities, and to strengthen sectors such as forestry which can create new employment opportunities, as well as the preservation of forest resources.
this is why we need to draw up as soon as possible a 'european agenda for mountain regions' which sets out an integrated and comprehensive strategic framework for the sustainable economic development of these areas and which puts mountain regions back at the centre of our political agenda.
‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the development of mountain regions can help to improve social, economic and territorial cohesion, promoting employment and sustainable growth.
however, the eu's mountains would contribute to the achievement of objectives such as the 2020 strategy (for renewable energy) and are therefore of considerable importance.
the heritage and great wealth of natural resources in these areas would offer green jobs, which can improve employment in the eu and combat climate change.
sustainable economic development of mountain areas can improve territorial, economic and social cohesion.
sustainable growth within the eu can be provided by the mountains themselves as they are centres of green growth.
the mountain environment poses specific challenges for smes and so we need to find solutions to support these enterprises and share best practice.
the wealth of these areas, which has so far been only partially exploited, can become an opportunity for new, quality and sustainable jobs, which enhance local traditions and knowledge, and contribute to mitigating climate change.
mountain regions, europe's green lungs, can thus become the catalyst for new projects of smart, sustainable and inclusive economic development.
moreover, cohesion policy takes on even more important features when looking at the potential impact it could have on increasing employment in mountain areas, especially in the green economy sector, thus contributing to the fight against climate change.
sustainable development must start first with mountain areas, which are still protected environments and must be able to adapt to a global market while maintaining the characteristics and specificities of the territory.
mountain areas are often rich in renewable energy sources which are not fully exploited.
cohesion policies in mountain regions must be able to allow the development of alternative energy sources by financing the construction and maintenance of these facilities.
i think it is clear and fully acceptable that mountain regions should be included in the union's cohesion policy in order to promote sustainable development and social inclusion in these regions as well.
the union must therefore support access to these areas, develop a focus on environmental protection and an approach to overcoming common challenges, in particular in terms of connectivity and accessibility.
mountain regions should also be seen as a source of resources to be used to improve a number of crucial areas such as employment, renewable energy, social, economic and territorial cohesion.
as centres of green growth, mountains themselves can act as catalysts for sustainable growth within the eu.
however, in order to achieve the objectives of the protection, development and use of mountain areas, the union needs to establish an agenda for mountain regions and to include these issues in the future guidelines of the union's environmental and territorial policies.
it focuses on three types of growth the union is aiming for: smart growth, sustainable growth and inclusive growth.
‒ i voted in favour of the report because it has the merit of bringing the spotlight back to the eu's mountain regions, analysing the critical elements of their development and their potential from the point of view of employment, economic growth, the social dimension and environmental issues and the fight against climate change.
the natural resources of these regions can provide many jobs, particularly in the renewable energy sector, helping to combat climate change.
the wide variety of renewable energy sources can help europe meet the eu's renewable energy targets.
the call for states to create incentives for more active development of public-private partnerships in the field of transport, communications and energy infrastructure is particularly problematic, as the lack of economies of scale would make the provision of these services commercially unattractive.
at present, some mountain areas are facing problems such as depopulation, changes in the ecosystem and the resulting hydrogeological disasters, and it is a priority to find a solution to these problems.
they are also a major source of renewable energy and raw materials.
an eco-sustainable approach could be applied to mountain agriculture, sustainable tourism, handicrafts, forestry and renewable energy technologies, creating new jobs.
i am not convinced by the interest shown in such instruments, which seem more concerned with purely economic aspects than with the real social and environmental development of the territory.
the eurogroup must acknowledge these efforts and make greek debt sustainable by timing payments, by taking into account the volume of annual maturities rather than the total amount, and by extending the period during which athens will not have to pay interest.
people are fleeing, but they're fleeing from wars, conflicts, poverty, climate change.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in rio de janeiro in 1992, 178 governments adopted agenda 21, which set out principles and criteria for sustainability with the aim of guiding development policies for the 21st century.
ten years later, in 2002, in johannesburg, the lack of tangible results was acknowledged and the lack of culture and awareness of sustainable development was acknowledged.
today we are following a new agenda with 17 goals and 169 targets to be achieved by 2030. we believe it is essential and urgent to show that the word 'sustainability' is no longer a mirage for the european union.
how can we make coherent and sustainable policies of european interest which are the cause of land grabbing, the exploitation of non-renewable resources, the sale of arms, deforestation, corruption and, in most cases, the odious social and economic inequality?
‒ the development of the legislative framework for trade in raw materials and energy is a long process requiring commitment, expertise and acumen.
this parliamentary act is a further step in the protection of european entrepreneurship and in view of the necessary review of the existing provisions on an appropriate regime for own-account merchandise dealers and for the prudential supervision of investment firms in general, aimed at achieving an acceptable balance between the sustainability and fairness of the sector and the actual feasibility of entrepreneurial action by citizens.
the term 'own-account commodity trader' covers a wide spectrum of actors in the energy and commodity markets: some deal exclusively in commodity derivatives and resemble investment firms in terms of functions and risks, while for others commodity derivatives trading is simply an ancillary activity to commodity production.
‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation to extend the exemption for freight forwarders to avoid that this category of traders is operating in an unstable regulatory environment in the short term.
‒ the term 'own trader in goods' covers a wide spectrum of actors in the energy and commodity markets: some deal exclusively in commodity derivatives and are similar to investment firms in terms of functions and risks, while others deal in commodity derivatives as a mere ancillary activity to commodity production.
the commission will continue to support the efforts of the member states to develop a european strategy for the protection of the environment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
with this directive, the european union, through legal immigration channels, stimulates the investment of resources and energy to attract skills and knowledge of scholars and researchers from non-eu third countries, including trainees, volunteers and peers.
however, the results obtained in the previous programming period were not the best: the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment.
in fact, looking at the previous programming period, the results obtained were not the best: the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment.
finally, i agree with the ep's position that strengthening administrative capacity for the implementation and policy evaluation phases and good governance can help to improve absorption capacity, and i share the need to encourage relevant structural reforms in line with the objectives of territorial cohesion policy and sustainable growth and employment.
this policy plays a key role and should be harmonised with other eu policies such as the macro-regional strategy, the digital single market, the energy union, research and innovation in order to better contribute to the achievement of its objectives.
the european union aims to achieve five concrete objectives by 2020 in the areas of employment, innovation, education, social inclusion and climate/energy.
for our part, mr president, we will fight to change this proposal and to bring about a reform which will rebuild a climate of trust and cooperation between the member states, asylum seekers, the european institutions and all the various actors involved.
this requires a new development path, an effective programme that will require considerably more policy action and budgetary resources than at present and must be contextualised in a sustainable development strategy that includes environmental, economic, social and cultural dimensions.
initiatives need to be put in place to stimulate growth by reinvesting resources in public services, ensuring decent wages and quality and sustainable jobs for all.
only in this way will we be able to project our society towards inclusive and sustainable economic growth in the european union and thus achieve the objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy.
first and foremost, with 40% of all renewable electricity generation, hydropower is europe’s largest renewable energy resource.
hydropower will continue to play a key role within the european energy union as it will contribute to the delivery of the three priority objectives of security, sustainability and competitiveness.
the commission is well aware of the economic, legal, social and environmental aspects of hydropower generation.
where applicable, national hydroelectric concession regimes should respect european union energy rules, such as the electricity directive, as well.
indeed, competitive procedures for hydropower concessions and fair treatment of economic operators are important for a well-functioning energy market.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the hydropower sector is crucial to achieving the decarbonisation targets and completing the single energy market.
the competition directorate does one thing, the environmental directorate does another, and different countries are threatened or have totally different and random infringements.
i believe that in this way we will also help the single energy market.
in paris, we agreed on a comprehensive global commitment to a major reduction in climate change.
and to do that, we need to have new energy, alternative energy, low-carbon energy.
some colleagues have spoken of unfair conditions of competition: it is the reality, it is the most serious problem, also because it is not possible that in the same market - in that single energy market which we want in europe - there are some who retain privileged positions, enjoying the unique opportunities they have in the national market, and who then have the possibility of going to other markets, while for others the national market is in fact open but they do not have the possibility of going out.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a climate of terror is reigning in the gambia, which is driving a large part of the population to emigrate.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
i am convinced that this will give citizens a better understanding of the environmental impact of the food they buy and will help to increase consumer confidence.
the commission has already identified the major social, economic and environmental consequences of chinese overcapacity in the eu and therefore calls on the commission to develop a common strategy in the wto to prepare appropriate anti-subsidy and anti-dumping measures compatible with the international regulatory framework.
it is not a question of raising protectionist barriers, but of protecting our industry from unfair competition until the conditions for truly fair and sustainable trade are created.
the enterprises, often under state control, have access to cheap raw materials and capital, thus altering trade flows and the competitive environment.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
with the resolution we have adopted today in this house we have defended our industry which could have suffered serious economic, social and environmental repercussions, as demonstrated by the recent negative impact on the steel industry already weakened by unfair chinese competition.
one proposal would be to quantify the carbon content of products and to set it as a percentage of vat, a mechanism that could actually make european industries more competitive thanks to the lower co2 emissions of its production compared to those of the asian giant.
because then we would end up endorsing phenomena such as social and environmental dumping and unfair competition.
it needs it not to protect itself but to re-create conditions for sustainable growth and development and to continue to play a leading role in world trade.
our aim is to protect european companies from unfair competition and from any dumping which would have repercussions not only on our economy but also on the environment and society.
action is therefore needed to protect european competition and to safeguard our companies against possible economic, social and environmental dumping.
the widespread and persistent social, environmental and commercial dumping practices of china would jeopardize the future of the entire european manufacturing industry.
china is not an ordinary economy and it is well known that many manufacturing sectors do not meet minimum standards for the protection of workers and the environment.
moreover, china's overcapacity and the resulting low-priced exports are already having a severe social, economic and environmental impact in the eu, especially in the eu steel sector.
china's overcapacity and the resulting low-priced exports are already having a severe social, economic and environmental impact in the eu, especially in the steel sector.
this is not a battle against china, our most important trading and political partner, but for fair and sustainable global trade.
while european companies have to comply with very strict protocols and constraints, chinese companies are supported by state aid, very low energy costs and the exploitation of labour, including child labour.
‒ the objectives and targets of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development must be analysed against a set of global indicators.
the resolution therefore contains an excellent approach to european policies for sustainable development.
‒ the 2030 agenda and the 17 sustainable development goals represent an important starting point for charting the way forward towards the political priorities of the global agenda for the coming years, in particular in terms of development, poverty, hunger and malnutrition.
in parallel, the commission and the eeas should work to ensure, within the europe 2020 strategy review and in the future eu global strategy on foreign and security policy, strong strategic coherence with the objective of sustainable development.
‒ the 2030 agenda for sustainable development, adopted at the united nations summit in new york in september 2015, is the document that must provide our guidelines in this area and which the european union must therefore conform to in all its policies and actions.
it is a framework of universal value to help all countries to combat poverty and achieve sustainable development by 2030, with 17 specifically ambitious sustainable development goals and 169 associated goals, which require global mobilization and the implementation of coherent and effective environmental, economic and social policies.
‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe it is important that the european union uses all its influence and soft power to make sure that the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals are ambitious projects that really make life better and more sustainable for citizens all over the world.
‒ the 2030 agenda is a un "action plan" signed, with great emphasis by the international press, by the world's leading countries last september in new york; it is based on 17 sustainable development lines and 169 objectives.
signed by un member governments less than a year ago, the 2030 agenda commits all countries worldwide to implementing its 17 sustainable development goals, guiding the world on the way forward over the next 15 years.
the resolution calls on the commission to submit a proposal for a comprehensive strategy for sustainable development covering all relevant policy areas, with a detailed roadmap to 2030, as well as to develop effective monitoring, review and accountability mechanisms for the implementation of the 2030 agenda and to report regularly to parliament.
‒ the new global framework for sustainable development requires concerted action by a number of international and european actors to achieve the objectives set.
the three pillars of sustainable development (environmental, economic and social) will need to be mainstreamed in the eu's internal and external policies.
by voting in favour of this resolution, i intend to support the search for a common position within the european institutions to ensure that the 17 sustainable development objectives are achieved.
‒ the 2030 agenda for sustainable development, adopted at the un summit in new york last september 2015, is the first global agreement to define a universal agenda of action with an impact on all countries and their national policies.
the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals represent a renewed international commitment to eradicate poverty, redefine and modernise development strategies for the next 15 years and ensure that results are achieved.
‒ one year after the eu adopted the un sustainable development agenda, i believe that the first monitoring of the actions and results of the plan is an act of due responsibility towards citizens and society as a whole.
i believe that overcoming the crisis by aiming at a new development model that involves not only quantitative growth but also qualitative growth of the planet - which sums up the concept of a circular economy, for example - means investing in a real cultural revolution involving participatory development, capable of encompassing economic growth, but also social progress and greater environmental protection in a coordinated and common work.
this is an important bet to tackle the big threats such as hunger, poverty, social exclusion and at the same time aim to develop a new model of growth: the commission has also proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment.
i am in favour of the report of the expert group on sustainable development goal (sdg) indicators, which is tasked with developing a proposal for the indicator framework for monitoring the post-2015 development goals and targets.
the 2030 agenda review has proposed 230 indicators that represent a good starting point for the sustainable development goals and provide a robust framework for monitoring and reviewing progress.
‒ the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals represent a renewed international commitment to eradicate poverty and to redefine and modernise development strategies for the next 15 years.
‒ in view of the united nations general assembly resolution 70/1, the need, also expressed at european level, to review and implement the framework indicators for monitoring the objectives of the post-2015 and 2030 agendas, and the fact that the 2030 agenda is focused on eradicating poverty and defining development strategies for the next 15 years, and that the sustainable development objectives must form the basis of all future trade agreements of the european union, i believe that the proposal of my colleagues should be encouraged at european and international level.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i strongly support the need for a unanimous european union position on sustainable development issues.
the new universal framework for sustainable development requires greater coherence between the different policy areas and actors involved, which requires further coordination, dialogue and collaboration at all levels within the union.
‒ with this resolution, the result of a broad compromise, the european parliament calls on the foreign affairs council to express a common eu position in the context of the adoption of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development at the united nations.
‒ with a view to the next high-level political forum on sustainable development in july, the resolution adopted today constitutes the european parliament's contribution to the follow-up and review of the 2030 agenda to eradicate poverty and redefine and modernise development strategies for the next 15 years.
i hope that in this context the european union will adopt a firm common position in order to integrate effectively all the dimensions of sustainable development and to strengthen policy coherence for development also within the un working structures.
targeted aid programming, avoiding waste, is essential to achieving the objectives of cooperation with third countries.
the european union is a global community of states committed to building a common and sustainable development model.
environmental considerations are also taken into account, as greenhouse gas emissions are to be significantly reduced and comprehensive measures to protect natural resources are to be taken.
as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety i am very sensitive to this subject and in this vote i have strongly stressed the importance of mandatory origin labelling.
i therefore support the parliament's initiative to call for the establishment of a working group to assess the commission's report on milk and other meats, in order to introduce mandatory origin labelling at a sustainable cost to businesses and consumers.
as shown by a eurobarometer survey in 2013, european citizens, increasingly aware of the impact of their consumption on animal welfare and environmental conditions, have expressed their support for regulatory innovation that makes their choices more informed and production chains more transparent and aware.
the compulsory indication of the country of origin is a powerful incentive for food businesses to promote products with high added value in terms of quality and working methods that respect animals and the environment.
european legislation, which no longer corresponds to the current economic and social environment and the eu's 2020 employment targets, needs to be revised and modernised.
national legislation on parental leave is very complex and needs to be revised to meet the challenges of today's economic and social environment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, growth today, unlike in the past, is based on two key elements, energy and electronic communications, if we are to aim at sustainability and a global dimension.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
so not everything is in these acts, but i have purposely called what needs to be developed in a complementary sense, because i see an integrated market in trade, in industry, in digital and also in the use of new energies, because sustainability is a key factor in all of this.
the economic backdrop is one of gradual recovery for our economy, despite a difficult global environment.
our fund is helping to find new treatments for alzheimer’s disease; transforming old industrial sites into new offices; bringing energy efficiency into our homes and cutting our bills; and lending a hand to start-ups who were turned away by other lenders.
let me conclude with climate and energy.
european companies today hold 40% of all patents for renewable technologies.
the agenda for the summit in japan is very ambitious and so, we hope, will be the conclusions, from foreign policy to climate change to sustainable development.
in this connection, in line with the resolution which this parliament voted two weeks ago, we hope that a coherent way of dealing with china, a key partner, will be found, but it must also be a partner in the definition of fair and sustainable trade.
in the absence of transparency, we cannot stand by and watch negotiations in which we do not know the content, especially when they concern social, environmental and consumer standards.
so if you really want to use the opportunities that global developments are offering, you need to move towards a sustainable economy, you need to embrace the digital single market, you need to create an energy union and you need to make sure that your economy becomes circular.
that is the only way we can create enough economic growth which is sustainable, which does not deplete the earth but which maintains our natural resources and which will enable us to create the social environment that is wanted by the vast majority of europeans.
again, if you follow my reasoning that we need a sustainable economy, we need to make sure that we slow down global warming and that we actually do what we promised in paris.
it is in our essential interest that we create sustainable growth in our neighbourhood.
we have seen, i think, that those are the lessons learned by different partners in the g7; that taken in isolation, monetary, fiscal and structural policies do not suffice to boost economic activity in a sustainable way.
in 2015, g7 leaders underlined the importance of trade and investment as key drivers of growth, jobs and sustainable development.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is often said that the future of energy is a distributed system of renewable energy production, where individuals and communities, local authorities and small and mediumsized enterprises cooperate in the production, distribution and storage of energy.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not left to the discretion of the member states.
ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow we shall be voting on the griffin report, which recognises the reality and the role of prosumers, and which will give value to the goals of freedom and prosperity that prosumers are pursuing, giving them legal dignity within the energy union.
tomorrow we will also have the opportunity to go further, by supporting amendment no 1, which recognises distributed networks, renewable energy produced and consumed in the context of prosumers as a common good, like water.
on the one hand, market design is rewriting the architecture of the wholesale electricity market, to overcome national distortions and foster a decentralised, flexible, competitive and environmentally sustainable european market.
on the other hand, with the griffin report, we support the simplification of the retail regulatory framework, more and better information for consumers, the overcoming of the determination tariffs, stringent measures to combat energy poverty.
in other words, we are putting the vulnerable consumers back at the centre of the debate, those who often have to choose between heating and eating and who cannot be left at the mercy of the big energy companies.
this practice must end and i am optimistic that with the contribution of the griffin report we will be able to add this piece to the larger mosaic of the construction of the energy union.
the gender pension gap is also the result of much more fragmented careers for women workers, who are forced to juggle their careers and family life in a hostile environment.
i think that we are all clear that deepening the single market is the best way not just to improve the investment climate, the business environment and the productivity of the eu economy, but also to improve service to consumers and to our fellow citizens.
as we continue to waste time, the data is describing a reality we can no longer ignore: 600 suicides in france, 500 in germany, 400 in belgium.
in the first half of 2016, production rose by more than 7%, and of course the most affected producers are small producers, who, in countries like my own, italy, represent 50% of farms and have no hope of surviving in this environment, which is not competitive and is totally deregulated.
in the speeches of my italian colleagues i heard - although a speech was made in german, but it was an italian colleague - the recognition of those small areas where important actions are being carried out more environmentally than agriculturally but which have an agricultural recognition and a great environmental recognition.
the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good sign of the fact that the commission is not yet in a position to adopt a directive on the protection of the environment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the commission communication and the report we are discussing today outline a long-term strategy, reaffirming europe's vocation as a continent capable of offering itself and the world a model of efficient, sustainable and socially advanced development.
the report to be voted on today states that these are decentralised databases capable of processing large amounts of financial transactions in an instant and that they have the potential to transform not only the virtual currency environment but also financial technology.
in such a rapidly changing environment, it is right to want, as this report calls for, smart regulation that encourages the free development of new technologies, but at the same time tackles risks before they become systemic.
i believe that special assistance is extremely important for workers who have been made redundant and for those who have been affected by the current world economic climate.
‒ the energy 'new deal' strategy envisages an active role for citizens in the european energy market.
the new deal is based on consumer protection, better energy information and an efficient energy market.
i have decided to vote in favour of the proposal because of the substantial benefits it will bring to the energy market.
‒ today i voted in favour of the griffin report on a new deal for energy consumers.
this text effectively illustrates how the current phase of energy transition is leading to an overhaul of the centralised system of energy production which has been predominant up to now.
the evolution towards decentralisation, however, brings with it numerous challenges, which require an appropriate response built around two key elements: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the energy efficiency of buildings, such as the introduction of a new energy policy, the principle of energy efficiency on the one hand, and the building of a true energy union, which protects consumers from abusive practices and at the same time allows citizens to produce, consume, store or trade their own renewable energy.
only with a global approach will it be possible to build a more efficient, sustainable and inclusive energy system.
‒ consumers will play a central role in the energy union strategy.
the legislative framework for self-production from renewable sources and the dynamics of grid connection also needs to be developed and harmonised.
‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the commission's proposal for a 'new deal' for energy consumers contains extremely positive elements that will allow citizens to obtain more sustainable energy at lower prices.
the share of electricity produced from renewable energy sources will increase from 25% today to 50% in 2030. but even in the absence of sun and wind, electricity must still be produced in sufficient quantities to meet the needs of consumers and to keep the electricity grid stable.
we must support all available energy efficiency measures: the new network technologies, measurement systems and smart homes, self-production and storage equipment, which give citizens the opportunity to play an active role in the energy transition, using them to reduce their bills and actively participate in the market.
we must enable consumers to make informed choices and to be able to navigate the market's offerings with ease: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not left to the discretion of the member states.
‒ the report, while containing some shared insights on tackling energy poverty and promoting renewables, is fully functional to the energy union.
‒ i voted in favour of this report today because i believe that, despite some progress, the objective of the third energy package of establishing a truly competitive, transparent and consumer-friendly retail energy market has not yet been fully achieved.
the importance of properly regulated, open, transparent and competitive energy markets should be emphasised in order to keep prices low and improve customer service, giving european citizens greater decision-making power and helping them to avoid energy poverty.
‒ the report sets out the european parliament's position on the strategy to be adopted to address the consumer/citizen dimension in the energy legislation coming next autumn.
the aim is to improve the functioning of the energy market so that citizens can directly benefit from it and are encouraged to play an active role in the energy transition in terms of renewable energy production and energy efficiency.
a number of requests from the 5 star delegation were accepted, such as the call for a common eu definition of the term 'prosumers' and for measures to stimulate behavioural change for the energy transition.
‒ from the documentation presented to me, i could see how important this report is in terms of energy, energy sustainability and renewable energy sources.
i think we need to protect the enormous resources that our world offers us and this always keeping in mind the ultimate goal of achieving an economy based 100% on renewable energy.
an economy that gives priority to energy saving to ensure energy security, competitiveness and, above all, lower energy bills for consumers.
to enable individual citizens to play an active role in the energy transition, to produce their own renewable energy and to increase its efficiency.
i therefore voted in favour of better development throughout the union, with specific responses to the individual causes of energy poverty.
‒ i voted in favour of a new energy management system that benefits consumers in terms of efficiency and accessibility.
the energy transition to new renewable energy sources should provide citizens with stable, affordable, efficient and sustainable energy, as well as high-quality and energy-efficient products, services and buildings.
conditions favourable to the achievement of an efficient and competitive internal energy market offering consumers choice as well as clear and transparent access to information need to be developed.
i also express the need to adopt energy measures to strengthen the competitiveness of european companies operating or entering the energy market by establishing an effective system for the marketing of energy.
‒ the resolution focuses on domestic energy consumers in the context of the energy transition and supports the commission's work to ensure greater affordability.
the energy transition is translating into a move away from the traditional centralised energy system to a more decentralised, energy efficient, flexible and renewable energy system.
i voted in favour because i believe that the interests of present and future generations must be at the heart of the energy union.
in particular, i believe that we need a well-functioning, inclusive energy market that generates benefits for citizens, who must be able to play an active role in the transition, produce their own renewable energy and become energy efficient.
i support the idea of setting up a one-stop shop in each member state to provide information to enable consumers to make decisions, or that eu funds for energy efficiency and self-production support should be allocated primarily to low-income or energy-poor consumers.
only through a truly competitive, transparent and consumer-friendly energy market will it be possible to establish a true energy union.
‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe strongly in the need to create a more equitable energy system for all consumers, while always keeping in mind the protection against energy poverty.
‒ i am voting against the report, which, although it contains some shared points on combating energy poverty and promoting renewables, is fully functional for the energy union.
i welcome the report by mrs griffin: i share the positive view of the energy strategy recently presented by the european commission, it is an ambitious plan which can set the conditions for a framework of high efficiency and innovation in domestic energy consumption.
we are in a real energy transition phase, which is translating into a move away from an energy system based on traditional centralised production, towards a more decentralised, efficient, flexible and largely renewable energy system.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment.
‒ i voted in favour of the non-legislative resolution on a new deal for energy consumers, as i believe that consumers should have more power in the energy market and i share the challenge of energy efficiency, self-generation and other measures for vulnerable citizens in energy poverty.
at present, 50 million european citizens are living in conditions of energy poverty.
further requests are aimed at introducing new business models, such as collective purchasing systems and innovative financial instruments that promote self-production, self-consumption and energy efficiency measures; the promotion of community/cooperative energy systems; clear prices and comparable tariffs.
combating energy poverty cases where people are unable to affordably heat or use electricity in their homes must be tackled at the root, through the introduction of 'social tariffs' for low-income and vulnerable citizens.
the present project is based on the implementation of a 'new deal' for energy consumers.
with this report we want to create a new structure for the electricity market, one which will strengthen the role of energy consumers, but above all, one which will be oriented towards a flexible system based on renewable sources.
the objective of the third energy package, which is to focus on a competitive retail market and consumers, has not yet been achieved, and for that very reason we are making a number of concrete recommendations.
among them, it is intended to guide consumers to take into account the property of the energy transition, according to which producing their own energy would bring enormous benefits, including a reduction in energy consumption.
i believe that the solution proposed is beneficial both for consumers, who will be able to manage their consumption from an economic point of view, and for contributing to the overall reduction of energy consumption.
‒ endorsed the european parliament resolution on a new deal for energy consumers.
the report aims to achieve an economy based on 100% renewable energy, which can be achieved by prioritising energy savings and ensuring energy security, competitiveness and lower energy bills for consumers.
it is essential to introduce measures to provide citizens with affordable and sustainable energy and high-quality and energy-efficient services, creating favourable conditions for the achievement of an efficient internal energy market that offers consumers choice as well as transparent access to information.
ensuring strictly the full implementation of the third energy package is a priority of the european institutions.
‒ we welcome the report on a new deal for energy consumers.
within the framework of the energy union, a vast and ambitious project which aims to create a single energy market within the european union, thus fostering free competition and discouraging the creation of oligopolies, this report provides a new angle to the debate on the energy market, namely that of consumers, who should be the first beneficiaries of the benefits envisaged by the project.
the creation of an inclusive energy system, where consumers can contribute to the market by producing energy domestically and public actors can improve energy poverty situations, must be one of the priorities of this commission.
the energy union must put consumers and their needs at the centre.
in this respect, it is necessary to work towards eliminating unfair practices by energy suppliers, which contribute to the maintenance of artificially high position rents and prices.
‒ the european union is committed to achieving, through the reduction of energy consumption, an economy based on 100% renewable energy in line with the text adopted in paris, which limits the temperature increase to 1.5°c.
in order to achieve these objectives, an efficient internal market is needed to enable citizens to benefit from affordable, transparent and sustainable energy.
i therefore believe that the proposals in the document under discussion represent an excellent starting point for the construction of a productive energy market.
‒ more than 50 million european citizens live in a state of energy poverty.
the eu, with its strategy for a european energy union, must tackle this problem by fostering a transition to a sustainable model that puts people at the centre.
this can be achieved by making invoices more transparent, allowing consumers to know and control their actual energy use, and developing micro-production by the users themselves.
public funds must be invested in innovative projects to build quality homes, with better energy efficiency, lower energy costs and improved living conditions.
innovative companies developing increasingly energy-efficient technologies and materials should also be supported.
energy policy must take social aspects into account and contribute to the fight against poverty and social exclusion.
‒ currently, 50 million european citizens are living in conditions of energy poverty.
for this reason, this resolution on the 'new deal' for energy consumers supports collective purchasing systems, household energy production, better price comparison tools and the ability for consumers to switch suppliers more easily and to choose the most favourable tariffs.
i am convinced that through the targeted use of community funds efficiency could be promoted and energy poverty tackled.
‒ the report stresses the need to move from a rigid and highly centralised energy system to a more decentralised, flexible, renewable-based system that gives consumers a new role so that they can also become producers.
while there is no doubt that the consumer must be at the centre of european energy policy, it is nevertheless necessary to leave the possibility for companies to operate in the market, to offer a good service and to be able to invest in innovation.
‒ today, 50 million europeans live in a situation of energy poverty: have outdated contracts, also known as 'delayed' contracts, which often require payment of a significant penalty upon switching to another supplier.
this resolution stresses the need to create favourable conditions for the creation of an efficient and competitive internal energy market, which gives consumers the possibility of choosing the most convenient carrier and of having clear and transparent access to information on their consumption and billing.
parliament suggested that it should be easier for consumers to switch energy suppliers and that tariffs should be more transparent, comparable and clear.
it is important that there is a properly regulated, open, transparent and competitive energy market in the eu.
‒ the european parliament voted today on its guidance to the european commission on how the consumer/citizen dimension should be included and addressed in the energy legislation coming in the autumn.
the report by parliament substantially improves on the eu commission's already good communication and succeeds in enhancing the role of citizens in the wider energy transition towards a decentralised model of energy production based on renewables.
much attention is given to the phenomenon of energy poverty and its possible solutions.
the report reflects most of the requests and, in particular, the m5s's request for a legal definition at eu level of prosumers (energy consumers-producers), which is still missing, was passed by a large majority.
the amendment (signed by all five stars and about 100 other colleagues of various nationalities) calling for renewable energy produced by prosumers to be considered a common good failed to pass with only 47 votes out of 650. we almost hoped.
this own-initiative report, which i have endorsed, is intended to guide the commission in considering consumer/citizen needs in the energy legislation coming in the autumn.
at present, 50 million european citizens are living in conditions of energy poverty.
we in m5s want energy companies to provide consumers with clear information about the most cost-effective tariffs and to eliminate penalties for switching suppliers.
we believe that energy poverty - the cases where people are unable to affordably heat or use electricity in their homes - must be tackled at its root.
we asked the commission to consider eu funds to promote energy efficiency, self-generation and other measures for vulnerable citizens in energy poverty.
together with my colleagues we have tabled amendments, supported by the intergroup on common goods and public services, which recognise that energy in the energy transition is to be considered a common good.
austerity, the large gender pay gap and the economic crisis have increased inequalities, affecting women in particular, excluding them increasingly from the labour market, social life, justice, health care services, decent housing and food, water, energy and education.
on the other hand, however, they represent a protection of fundamental rights (health, environment and labour) in individual states.
finally, while the completion of the single market can indeed be a great opportunity for economic development, particular care must be taken not to jeopardize, in the context of the removal of existing unjustified non-tariff barriers, the rules established with a view to protecting consumers and the environment, which must be safeguarded and even strengthened.
the eu too often sees national and regional rules as barriers to the free movement of goods within the eu, whereas the aim is to protect the environment, labour and consumer health.
however, these obstacles also constitute rules and laws designed to protect employment, health and the environment and the assessment of the legitimacy of the public policy objective by a member state cannot in my view be left to the discretion of the european commission.
‒ i am voting against the report because i believe that some non-tariff barriers are still useful in safeguarding our production system, our environment and our consumers.
without prejudice to the right of governments to legislate in the common interest, for example in the field of consumer protection or environmental protection, non-tariff barriers constitute a serious discriminatory element.
but on the other hand they also represent the rules and laws that protect employment, health and the environment within the individual states.
on the other hand, they also represent the rules and laws that protect employment, health and the environment within individual states.
the european union has a duty to protect the environment and to protect the environment.
only by taking these measures will the single market be achieved and a genuine, highly competitive social market economy based on sustainable growth and consumer protection be created.
only by adopting common and shared rules and regulations can we support balanced economic development which respects the environment and which can more effectively and calmly meet the major challenges we face, such as rising unemployment and the gradual weakening of our entrepreneurial fabric.
the single market is the engine of sustainable growth and employment and is the cornerstone of the european integration process.
the actions to be taken in the coming years will also have to address the new economic, social and environmental opportunities and challenges posed by the rapidly growing digital market and the collaborative economy, which are changing the way goods and services are delivered and consumed.
the internal market is the real instrument for developing the concept of europe, not only as an economic power but also to unleash its full potential for the benefit of all, so as to increase jobs, boost smes, achieve tangible and timely results in terms of competitiveness, sustainable growth, research, innovation and wide consumer choice.
finally, i share the call on the commission to develop a definition of start-ups, smes and social economy enterprises, to integrate the social economy into the policies of the single market and to develop a european action plan for social economy enterprises, in order to unlock the full potential of smart, sustainable and equitable growth.
‒ recognising the importance of the single market as a source of economic integration and sustainable growth, we strongly support the comi report on the single market strategy.
by proposing a set of concrete measures to increase consumer protection and the creation of sustainable jobs, ensuring social inclusion and fair treatment for workers, it will lead to an improvement in the well-being of european citizens.
it will be crucial, above all, to the success of the sustainable development agenda and to its progress.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, policy coherence for development is a key element in achieving the objectives of the un 2030 agenda for sustainable development.
a human rights-based approach would provide a better understanding of policy coherence for development, because without addressing the obstacles to the realization of rights, there can be no progress towards sustainable development and poverty eradication.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, efficient and innovative agriculture is essential to tackling the sustainability challenges faced by farming enterprises on a daily basis.
the european union is also committed to the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
the main objective of the convention is to protect parties from the health, social, environmental and economic consequences of second-hand smoke.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
a number of amendments to the original text of the agreement have extended the guarantees offered by these vehicles and improved the levels of safety and environmental protection.
‒ in an increasingly interconnected world, with production processes increasingly taking place along global value chains, removing excessive barriers to the movement of goods and products is a priority, as is providing a harmonised regulatory framework capable of ensuring favourable conditions for competition, while maintaining the highest standards of health, safety and environmental protection.
this is to create a more transparent and effective economic environment, free of unnecessary additional burdens, but at the same time able to guarantee uniform standards and therefore greater safety.
for several decades, the eu as a whole has been one of the world's largest producers of motor vehicles, and the sector is the largest private investor in research and development: this research must be supported towards increasingly environmentally sustainable and efficient technologies, and to do so it is important to protect the know-how of european manufacturing companies.
international regulatory cooperation has the potential to promote a transparent, effective and competitive economic environment.
regulatory cooperation at international level is the prerequisite for promoting an effective, transparent and clear economic environment that fosters free competition while ensuring high levels of health and safety protection.
this is the way to create a transparent, effective and competitive business environment, while ensuring the highest levels of health and safety protection.
the eu must therefore support global technological harmonisation and encourage regulatory cooperation in view of its potential to promote a transparent, effective and competitive economic environment, while ensuring health and safety standards.
international regulatory cooperation has the potential to promote a transparent, effective and competitive economic environment, while developing and ensuring the highest levels of health and safety protection.
the text of the agreement provides for harmonisation in the field of vehicles, with a view to eliminating technical barriers to trade in motor vehicles between the parties to the agreement and to ensuring that the vehicles in question offer a high level of safety and environmental protection.
as the unece agreement provides for a reduction in the development, production and certification costs for the automotive industry and as it also seeks to avoid repetitive administrative procedures in order to promote the development of a transparent and effective economic environment, i have decided to vote in favour of the european parliament's approval of the conclusion of this agreement.
political action is needed to remove all unnecessary barriers to trade and to encourage cooperation between member states on regulatory issues and to create a transparent, effective and competitive economic environment.
the treaty represents an important step forward in strengthening our trade and investment relations with these countries, especially in times of economic crisis, when trade can help development and employment by encouraging sustainable and quality business for both sides.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
investors and savers need to find a sound financial environment, free from uncertainties, in which to develop their potential.
investors and savers need to find a sound financial environment, free from uncertainties, in which to develop their potential.
the members shall be appointed by the council, after consulting the european parliament, for a renewable term of six years.
‒ a policy coherence report on development is produced every two years to assess progress, improve strategies and give further impetus to sustainable development.
the adoption by the united nations of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development was a milestone in the definition of strategic objectives to combat this and other serious problems that threaten our planet.
the text focuses on a number of priority areas of intervention: the commission has also been active in the field of migration, trade and finance, food security, health, climate change and gender, but the most important aspect is the definition of the link between security and development.
in fact, without addressing the obstacles to the realization of rights, there can be no progress towards sustainable development and poverty eradication.
‒ i thought i would vote in favour of the measure as the council conclusions on the ec's fifth biennial report, adopted in october 2015, underline that the cps will be an important part of the eu's contribution to achieving the broader objective of policy coherence for sustainable development (pcsd).
the 2030 agenda for sustainable development represents a unique opportunity to address the interrelated challenges of poverty eradication and sustainable development.
‒ policy coherence for development is an important contribution of the european union to the implementation of sustainable development policies.
the union's commitment to policy coherence for development is mainly articulated around issues such as trade, environment, climate change, security, agriculture, social dimension, employment, decent work, migration and energy.
the eu should therefore take a leading role in promoting a universal agenda that shifts the concept towards sustainable development.
the report introduces important innovations which should be supported, including a closer link between development policies and the sustainable development goals and greater involvement of local and regional governments and civil society organisations.
however, today more than ever it is necessary to move beyond this paradigm, as the adoption of the 2030 agenda envisages establishing a single and universal set of objectives and thus moving beyond the donor-recipient paradigm on which the union's development policy has been based, to promote a development policy coherence agenda based on sustainable development.
i strongly supported the s&d group's view that there is a strong link between the coherence of eu development policies and the sustainable development goals (sdgs), and that local and regional authorities and organised civil society should be involved in a substantial way.
on this front, a more pragmatic and timely approach is needed to address not only the objectives already outlined in the 2030 agenda for sustainable development, but above all the challenges that everyday life poses to us today.
i believe that there is an urgent need to find a system to harmonize and strengthen community efforts in the areas of reception and migration policies, in addition to the five priority areas already identified (trade and finance, food security, climate change, migration and security).
the cfsp is a key element of the eu's contribution to achieving the goal of policy coherence for sustainable development, as well as contributing to the consolidation of the rule of law and impartial institutions.
in this context, the progress made by the european union in policy coherence in 12 areas is highlighted: trade, environment, climate change, security, agriculture, fisheries, the social dimension of globalisation and employment, migration, research, the information society, transport and energy.
‒ i voted in favour of mr preda's proposal, as i share the need for greater synergy between the objectives of sustainable development and the union's policies.
in my view, policy coherence for development is essential to pursue the objectives of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development and therefore i believe that greater harmonisation between the sps and the sdgs is appropriate.
it should also work to ensure that other major players on the international scene (the usa, japan and the brics countries) adopt a similar strategy, to make the implementation of the sustainable development goals truly possible.
the eu should therefore take the lead in promoting a universal pcd agenda, aimed at achieving sustainable development.
‒ with the adoption of the sustainable development goals, 2015 was a milestone in the evolution of csp (policy coherence for development).
the sustainable development goals have called for a more integrated approach to policy-making, with a greater focus on coherence.
the achievement of the cps will thus have a very decisive impact on the implementation of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development.
therefore, i believe that parliament should call for an eu-level debate on cps in the framework of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development, to understand how cps can fit into the more universal concept of cpss (policy coherence for sustainable development).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that this is a step in the right direction, namely an alliance for food and nutrition, for a totally sustainable agriculture, which i believe should be the aim of this europe which has in its typical products, in its typical products, above all in this chain which we have described today, one of its extraordinary strengths and potential.
the union's priority must be to protect family farms and smallholders, who are largely excluded from the negotiations, and to avoid the adoption of models based on large-scale industrial production, which have negative consequences for health and the environment.
the agreed policies are aimed at overcoming the limitations and risks of the african agricultural system, creating a more business-friendly environment, easier and controlled access to land and a more sustainable use of resources, with the aim of combating food and nutritional poverty.
greater transparency on public-private partnerships is equally essential, as is a commitment to empowering businesses to respect human rights, land rights, environmental sustainability and gender equality.
the rapporteur believes that donors and national governments should instead invest in a model of agriculture that is sustainable, favourable to smallholders and women, and able to exploit the potential of national and regional markets in a way that benefits smallholders and provides consumers with quality food at affordable prices.
‒ the new alliance for food security and nutrition in africa aims to end poverty for 50 million people in sub-saharan africa by 2020, in line with the sustainable development goals.
the new alliance aims to promote inclusive and sustainable growth based on local and small-scale agriculture, overcoming the structural weaknesses of the various country cooperation frameworks and export-oriented agricultural investment policies characterised by the exclusion of food insecure social groups from decision-making processes.
by voting in favour, i intend to support the actions envisaged by the new alliance on sustainable family farming, access to land and financing for agricultural investment in africa.
‒ i voted in favour of the non-legislative resolution on the new alliance for food security and nutrition in sub-saharan africa, a g8 initiative launched in 2012 and supported by the eu to develop partnership with local businesses, because i believe it is necessary for the initiative to integrate environmental protection measures and above all safeguards against land grabbing.
the confirmation for the next few years goes through a review process that cannot fail to take into account transparency and governance, the need to support sustainable agriculture, able to achieve a fundamental objective: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft budget.
this can only happen if this new alliance focuses on sustainable, local, human-scale food production, if private land grabbing, often unable to meet local needs, is stopped.
that is why i support this report, to ensure that european investors respect and encourage the other partners in the alliance to respect the rights of local communities and the needs of small farms, by taking a human rights-based approach within the framework of cooperation, including maintaining safeguards for environmental, social, land, labour and human rights and the highest standards of transparency in their investment plans.
family farms and smallholders can provide diversified products and increase food production in a sustainable way.
the most obvious problems are: the need to move towards sustainable forms of agricultural production and support farmers' seed systems; the risks associated with the emergence of a market in securities; the commission has also been active in the fight against malnutrition and in the recognition of women's rights.
other basic principles must be the fight against land grabbing and, finally, the responsibility of contractors with regard to human rights and social, environmental and labour standards.
some studies show that the implementation of this programme puts more than 60% of jobs at risk and that the ecosystem of these countries is also threatened, as they would be invaded by gmos and fertilisers.
this report, for which i voted in favour, calls on the european commission to invest only in sustainable projects and to encourage local farms.
i therefore supported the s&d group's position that international accounting standards should not undermine the eu's financial stability but should help sustainable growth and should be considered as public goods.
once again we see the eu's efforts to create a financial environment that is as stable and as risk-free as possible.
european policies aim to create a climate of confidence and stability that can stimulate investment.
‒ the van orden report, while being sustainable as a whole, contains some criticisms which have led me to express my abstention.
it is not a waste of resources to help the african union.
‒ considering that peace support operations are conducted to manage crisis situations affecting member countries of internationally recognised organisations, considering that the african union is also a member of these organisations, considering, moreover, that in the face of a changed international context, security is even more necessary today, considering that peace is part of the sustainable development goals as enshrined in the 2030 agenda, considering, in addition, that the european union provides economic assistance to the african union and that its support complements that of other international actors, considering that coordinated actions with the united nations, the african union and other organisations could lead to more effective results, considering, finally, that a greater commitment by the european union and its member states to conflict prevention is indispensable, i consider that i should vote in favour.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
i am in favour of this report, which is a first step in building a fair competitive environment between member states, which can allow fair and transparent relations between producers, suppliers and distributors.
rebalancing the bargaining power throughout the chain will strengthen competitiveness, contributing to sustainable development and a diversified choice of quality food at affordable prices for all consumers.
i voted in favour of this report in order to achieve the objective of fair trade which can in turn help to avoid overproduction and food waste.
unfair trading practices have negative consequences for farmers, such as lower profits, higher costs, overproduction or food waste and difficulties in financial planning.
we cannot help but notice that this is the exact opposite of what is called 'sustainable' agriculture.
today, the growing population, and the resulting demand for healthy and nutritious food, is being met by a steady decline in the availability of land, environmental loss and degradation, water shortages, increasing energy demands, and the emergence of new pests and diseases - factors that are putting our natural environment under considerable stress.
only by focusing on innovation and forward-looking scientific development can the fight against malnutrition and the protection of the environment and jobs be kept together.
it is important that the european union is prepared for this key challenge by encouraging the technological development of agricultural practices that can promote food security on the continent through greater ecological sustainability.
in this context, it is necessary to promote the consolidation of the circular economy as a new reference development model, develop new mechanisms to raise citizens' awareness of sustainable consumption, promote transparency in production and supply chains, and encourage the development of a simpler and more flexible regulatory framework, in particular within the cap, able to adapt to a continuously changing environment.
‒ i voted in favour of this report today because i believe that innovation has the potential to help achieve sustainable agriculture in the eu.
i believe that precision agriculture, which is based on data-driven technologies, including satellite navigation tools and the internet, can generate significant environmental benefits, increase farm incomes, rationalise the use of agricultural machinery and significantly improve resource efficiency, including the use of irrigation water.
i note that the collection and analysis of integrated large data sets have the potential to stimulate innovation in agriculture and are particularly useful in addressing and developing an efficient and sustainable food chain.
we also need more research on innovative practices in the field of plant-soil interactions, which could reduce the environmental impact and use of chemical fertilizers, pesticides, herbicides and other soil treatments.
we do not want to produce more, we want to produce better, including better management and distribution of waste (just think that 30% of what is produced in the eu is thrown away).
it is about increasing crop yields and reducing environmental impact, both of which are topical issues in view of the still too widespread malnutrition and the need to deliver a healthier environment to future generations.
agricultural technologies have the potential to make agriculture more productive and sustainable.
in this regard, a favourable environment for innovation should be created by removing any unjustified obstacles.
some technical solutions can contribute to reduced fertiliser use, better use of soil and water, but also to higher yield varieties with better resistance to pests, diseases and reduced environmental impact.
however, their widespread use must go hand in hand with the need to combat food waste at all levels of the food chain, from production to retailers and consumers.
i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is important to make the best use of technology, to use it for sustainable agriculture, but i also stress the importance of continuing the fight against food waste and food waste.
‒ the agricultural and environmental sectors within the eu are going through a difficult period, also due to issues such as land availability, environmental damage and degradation, water scarcity, increased energy demand and the emergence of new pests and disease.
the report has the merit of underlining the fact that the introduction of a regulatory framework which encourages and does not hinder innovation is essential if european agricultural production is to be sustainable and competitive on the world market.
moving into the future, it is essential that the european agricultural sector is in the forefront of sustainability as that this could both decrease the negative impacts of agricultural operations and increase the competitiveness and productivity of european farms.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on technological solutions for sustainable agriculture in the eu because i believe that the issue of the sustainability of our agricultural production and livestock is one of the central challenges of the near future, given the increase in the world population and the consequent increased demand for food.
i am, however, firmly convinced that increased production and intensive farming are not the only solution: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances is a very good one.
innovation and research can therefore be a key to sustainable agriculture, with less pesticides and chemical use: i therefore supported the precautionary principle as a guiding principle in the authorization of new plant breeding technologies.
think about precision farming drones, which enable innovative farming management, which also benefits the ecosystem.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on technological solutions for sustainable agriculture in the european union.
there are many production models that the agricultural sector has referred to and there is great potential for improvement and also for sustainable development.
‒ the growing world population and the need to ensure quality food for all, together with the shrinking of arable land, environmental loss and degradation and the increasing demand for energy, are posing major challenges to the agricultural sector.
i believe that a farming system which is both productive and sustainable must first of all consider the quantity and quality of its products.
we have a moral obligation to rethink our lifestyle, to reduce waste.
technological innovation in the food sector could be the answer to problems such as land shortages, water shortages and environmental degradation.
‒ decreasing land availability, environmental loss and degradation, water shortages, increasing energy demand and the emergence of new pests and diseases are putting considerable strain on our natural environment.
as a result, it is becoming increasingly difficult for farmers to produce food in a sustainable way.
agricultural technologies, in particular, have the potential to make agriculture more productive and sustainable.
i voted in favour of this report and hope that the long-term challenges of sustainable agriculture can be tackled by a joint approach of the commission and the member states to ensure adequate support for technological innovation.
‒ declining availability of agricultural land, environmental damage and degradation, scarcity of water resources, increased energy consumption and the emergence of new diseases are putting numerous pressures on agricultural producers and the environment in the european union.
the eu is putting forward technological solutions to address these major challenges, especially to create more sustainable agriculture, as population growth and the related demand for healthy food is putting a strain on the entire ecosystem.
this will help to find new technological solutions and implement existing ones to promote sustainable agriculture in the eu.
the opposite of what sustainable agriculture should mean for the eu.
the idea for us in the m5s is not and cannot therefore be to produce more at any cost, but to aim at sustainable and quality agriculture, an agriculture which takes account of the environment and biodiversity.
the text also essentially opens the way to gmos and so-called 'low-risk' substances, without making a full assessment of the latter and, in fact, neglecting the safeguarding of biodiversity.
‒ i supported the report adopted today, which stresses the need for innovative and sustainable agriculture to meet the challenges we face today and in the future.
the rapid increase in the world's population, together with the challenges posed by climate change and the progressive loss of biodiversity, can only lead us to review and adapt our production models, including agricultural techniques and natural resource management, but also our models for the reuse and disposal of waste, both agricultural and food.
one thing is certain: we cannot afford to waste any more and innovation, in this as in other areas, can make a fundamental contribution.
it is important that the european union is prepared for this key challenge by encouraging the technological development of agricultural practices that can promote food security on the continent through greater ecological sustainability.
in this context, it is necessary to promote the consolidation of the circular economy as a new reference development model, develop new mechanisms to increase citizens' awareness of sustainable consumption, promote transparency in production and supply chains and encourage the development of a simpler and more flexible regulatory framework, in particular within the cap, able to adapt to a continuously changing environment.
i firmly believe that such measures can lead to better control of production phases, higher crop yields and a reduction in energy consumption and greenhouse gases.
the text states that, given that soils are everywhere exposed to a decline in fertility, it is necessary to intensify and improve soil productivity through innovative ways of ecosystem functions.
i am totally opposed to the report proposed here, because it is going in the opposite direction to what i think is appropriate, namely to produce less but better, with less waste and better management.
‒ new technological solutions have the potential to make the agriculture of the future more sustainable, to cope with the world's growing population and to provide food security, increased demand for high-protein products and healthier food.
genetic diversity is a possible solution for sustainable agriculture, encouraging the best possible use of resources to safeguard biodiversity and improve plant varieties.
however, this report is controversial because it encourages intensive farming as the only solution to the growing global demand for food and does not consider other solutions such as the fight against food waste or other more sustainable solutions.
i voted for the resolution, but i believe that only through a balanced use of technological instruments and different policies can we achieve appreciable and sustainable results.
i also agree with the report on the need to promote a more prudent use of natural resources, to ensure the biodiversity of our farms, to tackle food waste and to tackle soil degradation.
‒ i voted in favour of the non-legislative resolution on promoting innovation and economic development in the future management of european farms, especially for the smart approach to the world population growth perspective by 2050. the fao estimates that the world demographic landscape will change radically in a few decades, necessitating the sustainable development and improvement of food supply technologies.
the importance of protecting biodiversity and the high quality of european agricultural products should not be forgotten.
the key to sustainable agriculture is improving the management of natural resources.
the reuse of agricultural waste and the recovery of minerals as organic fertilisers should also be encouraged.
the report also stresses the need to tackle the problem of food waste.
this waste must be tackled at all levels of the food chain, from production to processing and sale to consumption, as 33% of this waste is dependent on consumers.
the introduction of new technologies will make it possible to achieve this goal using fewer resources and with greater attention to respect for the environment.
i believe that innovation and sustainability are two key aspects for the future of agriculture in the eu, and i have therefore decided to vote in favour.
‒ i am very pleased with today's vote on this report, which saw me play a leading role as rapporteur for an opinion in the committee on the environment.
this own-initiative report addresses important issues for the agriculture of the future, such as the need to focus on sustainable agriculture that can ensure an adequate and quality food supply while preserving the environment and resources for future generations, also in the light of the new economic model of circular economy development.
at the same time, the report stresses the importance of combating food waste, given that 1.3 billion tonnes of food are wasted or lost every year, while 800 million people suffer from chronic hunger and more than two billion people are malnourished, creating a situation that is no longer tolerable.
we at m5s are fighting for quality production, we are for better and sustainable production.
we must concentrate our efforts on fighting food waste; 30% of agricultural products in the eu are thrown away.
we want an increasingly careful agriculture which respects the environment and biodiversity.
i think we are all quite conscious of the fact that bangladesh is an enormously complex and extremely vulnerable country; in terms of environmental issues it is the most vulnerable country in the world.
on the one hand, it has made some progress in reaching the sustainable development goals, which is actually amazing.
i wanted to mention, in the context of this complex situation in bangladesh, the sustainability compact, especially in bangladesh, but also in other countries.
the sustainability compact was agreed between the government and the european union, the united states and the ilo, with commitments on three interlinked pillars in the ready-made garment industry.
that is why the calls we have made for improvements in human rights, poverty and climate action are part of a desire for cooperation, support and friendship with the philippines, and are not destructive.
the first: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment and to improve the quality of life.
transport, agriculture, humanitarian aid, climate and energy have already been mentioned, but we could talk about all the materials science, electronics, astronomy.
so we are encouraging member states to carry out structural reforms which will boost an investment environment at national and local level.
we have some major projects like the digital single market, the energy union, and the capital market union but one should add to this list also the circular economy package which the commission proposed last year and also decarbonisation of transport.
just to give you some ideas of what we have already done in terms of creating a better investment environment, we are lowering capital charges for insurance companies investing in long-term infrastructure.
the faster we can deliver on the internal market side, the faster we can get a better business environment and a better investment environment.
of course, we are developing the capital market union in order to improve the capital market environment in europe, but it will always take some time and meanwhile we have to address the market gap by providing efsi financing.
also one thing on which we have to be very careful is to provide financing for new innovations which will strengthen the sustainable development of our economies in social terms, in environmental terms, and for instance provide financing to the investments which will promote the circular economy.
on behalf of the s&d group: mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr vice-president, economic growth, social cohesion, the transition to a sustainable economy, the energy transition, the environment, deficit and debt reduction through growth: that is what europe needs.
i went to the commission's website and there are eight projects, many of them unsustainable from an environmental and also social point of view.
i can tell you that there is an extension of a motorway, the a4, and explain to me how it is environmentally sustainable to still rely on the automobile, the refinery in milazzo, then oil, then the arvedi steelworks, steel, and the gas network.
gas does not seem to me to be a renewable source, and so i cannot understand why the greens are also applauding it.
first of all: environment and sustainable development and the transition to a circular economy must be a clear strategic priority.
two points: the plan does not have a predefined geographical and sectoral location, because there is a high concentration of investment in a few countries, including those less affected by the crisis, and when you invest in renewable energy, you do so by favouring large companies, and not self-production and self-sufficiency.
first, around 30% of efsi projects are in the energy field and mostly in the renewable energy efficiency field.
some of our colleagues said that there were no projects in energy efficiency.
this is even more important than what efsi can do because, when we take down barriers to investment, it has a big impact on growth and on sustainable growth.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the kingdom of tonga, let us not forget, has considerable wind power capacity and is putting considerable emphasis on renewable energy and energy efficiency.
‒ the cotonou agreement, which sets out the framework for relations between the kingdom of tonga and the eu, is a partnership agreement whose main objectives are poverty eradication and sustainable development.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted.
‒ the objective of the 2010 hns convention is to ensure the accountability and payment of adequate, prompt and effective compensation for loss or damage to persons, property and the environment resulting from the transport of dangerous and harmful substances by sea through a specialised international hns compensation fund.
it should nevertheless be noted that it is in the interest of the union as a whole to have a uniform liability regime applicable to environmental damage: the council and the commission must therefore follow the instructions of the european parliament.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it is necessary in the interests of the union to provide for a uniform system of liability for environmental damage caused by the carriage of dangerous and harmful substances by sea.
the 2010 convention overlaps with existing legislation on civil liability for environmental damage, with the aim of strengthening the 'polluter pays' and precautionary and prevention principles and introducing compulsory insurance.
it is in the interest of the union to have a uniform system of liability for environmental damage caused by the carriage of dangerous and harmful substances by sea, which is effective and fair and which does not undermine the effectiveness and uniformity of the common rules of union law and does not create excessive disparities for the victims of pollution.
the main objective of the hsn convention is to enable international cooperation to protect the marine environment from harmful and hazardous substances.
as this convention is very important for the environment of the european union, i have decided to vote in favour of this interim recommendation which is intended to open a dialogue on this subject with the council and the commission.
‒ the objective of the 2010 hns convention is to ensure the accountability and payment of adequate, prompt and effective compensation for loss or damage to persons, property and the environment resulting from the transport of dangerous and harmful substances by sea through a specialised international hns compensation fund.
‒ taking note of the discussion on the subject, the positive contribution of the relevant commissions and working groups, and in the light of the significant share of dangerous and harmful substances in the transport of goods by sea, the worldwide nature of the shipping industry and the possible cross-border impact of accidents involving dangerous or harmful substances, we believe that it is in the interest of the union as a whole to have a uniform liability regime applicable to environmental damage resulting from the transport of dangerous and harmful substances by sea, which can only be achieved if, as already stated and hoped, the council and the commission take due account of the recommendations of the european parliament.
the ep also calls for the commission to be given the right to adopt a new directive on the protection of the environment.
i voted in favour of the report because it promotes a uniform liability regime for environmental damage caused by the transport of dangerous substances at sea and provides for a system of compensation for damage caused by the transport of dangerous and toxic substances by sea.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it is necessary in the interests of the union to provide for a uniform system of liability for environmental damage caused by the carriage of dangerous and harmful substances by sea.
‒ i am in favour of improving the uniformity of judicial cooperation in matters of liability and compensation for environmental damage arising from the transport of dangerous or harmful substances by sea.
we will also engage in a dialogue with the council and the commission to develop a coherent eu policy on liability and compensation for environmental damage caused by the transport of dangerous and harmful substances by sea.
it is in the interest of the european union that there should be a uniform system of liability for environmental damage caused by the transport of dangerous and harmful substances by sea.
i am in favour of the adoption of a uniform liability regime applicable to environmental damage resulting from the transport of these substances.
parliament considered that the european union should continue to provide financial support to the philippines to combat poverty, promote respect for human rights, peace and security, and assist in disaster prevention and preparedness and climate change.
my vote in favour of the brok report, which approves the eu-philippines agreement, is motivated by the conviction that it is essential to strengthen relations with the archipelagic state, paying particular attention to the environmental dimension and climate change.
the european union cannot ignore the serious difficulties facing the country due to the threats and risks associated with the occurrence of extreme weather events in the area, which are linked to climate change.
the world bank recently declared the philippines the third most vulnerable developing country to climate change, and that this will have adverse effects on the country's agriculture and marine resources.
i would remind you that the eu can also support climate action in the philippines through the european commission's investment fund for asia.
i also agree with the position of my fellow rapporteurs that the eu should continue to provide financial support and assistance to the philippines for capacity building for poverty reduction, social inclusion, respect for human rights and the rule of law, promotion of peace, reconciliation, security and judicial reform, and assist the country in disaster preparedness, relief and recovery operations and the implementation of effective policies to combat climate change.
it aims to manage risk, promote respect for human rights, peace and security and strengthen cooperation in areas such as migration, taxation, the environment and the fight against criminal activities.
the acp is strengthening cooperation in a wide range of areas, including migration, taxation, environment, energy, science and technology, transport, tourism, culture, but also the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing, illicit drugs, organised crime and corruption.
as the third most vulnerable developing country to climate change, the eu has committed to providing support and assistance to the philippine government, including to tackle poverty, reform the judiciary and promote respect for human rights.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
it is important that the eu continue to provide support to the philippines in the framework of the partnership, in particular to support the fight against poverty, the achievement of full social inclusion and the building of capacity to adapt to climate change and to respond to natural disasters, to which the country is highly exposed.
the eu should also assist the philippines in disaster preparedness, relief and recovery operations and in implementing effective policies to combat climate change.
in addition, cooperation with the european union would include measures to assist the republic of the philippines in preparing effectively for natural disasters and to facilitate the implementation of policies to address climate change.
i also agree with the report on the need to promote a more prudent use of natural resources, to ensure the biodiversity of our farms, to tackle food waste and to tackle soil degradation.
it strengthens sectoral cooperation in a wide range of strategic areas, such as migration, taxation, environment, energy, science and technology, maritime and air transport, tourism, culture, money laundering and terrorist financing, illicit drugs, organised crime and corruption.
the acp is strengthening cooperation in a wide range of areas, including migration, taxation, environment, energy, science and technology, transport, tourism, culture, but also the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing, illicit drugs, organised crime and corruption.
the call to the philippine government to implement all those international conventions on human rights and environmental protection is also important.
the programme, with a budget of eur 500 million, will support the reforms undertaken by tunisia to improve its fiscal situation, balance its balance of payments and create a favourable investment climate.
‒ tunisia is going through a period of great economic difficulties, mainly caused by the various terrorist attacks and attacks it has suffered, with a number of consequences, such as negative effects in various economic sectors, first and foremost tourism, the growth of unemployment, mainly of women, instability in the regional political and security environment.
this is a huge waste of money for the states, which will have fewer resources to provide adequate services to all citizens, including those who are absent.
parliament has made this a qualifying objective, well aware that taxation is a matter for the sovereignty of the member states, but convinced that the current situation, in which there are companies that can avoid paying their fair share of tax, is no longer sustainable, and the recent panama papers scandal requires that we go further and deeper.
the european parliament will be a strong ally, because fairly shared taxation can help to support sustainable growth.
this has positive implications for all areas of technology for civilian life, from new materials to telecommunications, from satellite positioning systems to energy efficiency.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on space capability for european security and defence, because i believe it is crucial to strengthen the common security and defence policy at a time when the security environment, inside and outside the european union, is becoming increasingly dangerous and challenging.
however, activities in outer space need to be in line with an international code of conduct to enhance protection and sustainability in space.
‒ i voted in favour because i believe that the security environment, both inside and outside the union, is becoming increasingly dangerous and challenging, characterised by terrorist attacks and mass killings affecting all member states, in relation to which states need to adopt a common strategy and a coordinated response.
‒ the security environment, both inside and outside the european union, is becoming increasingly dangerous and difficult to manage, characterised by horrific and asymmetrical wars, terrorist attacks and mass killings.
the benefits of innovation in this area have repercussions in other economic areas, such as transport, agriculture, climate and energy.
i am also convinced that there is considerable potential for the commercialisation of space technologies in terms of addressing the recent challenges posed by migration, border management and sustainable development.
we would therefore support measures to further integrate data exchange systems and to simplify bureaucracy and institutions in order to create a more favourable environment for the actors involved.
the deteriorating climate of the rule of law, democracy and socioeconomic situation in venezuela must be a matter of concern and action for the eu, calling first and foremost for the immediate release of all political prisoners.
however, the commission has never taken this into account because the commission, in open violation of european law and the treaties, felt the need to carry out an impact assessment, a socioeconomic impact assessment only, an absolutely inadequate instrument for deciding on a scientific issue affecting health and the environment.
‒ today i voted in favour of the resolution in question to condemn the commission's delay in publishing the scientific criteria needed to identify and reduce exposure to hormone-disrupting chemicals, which are considered a global threat by the world health organisation and the un environment programme (unep).
the report of the united nations environment and world health organization calls endocrine disruptors a "global threat", referring to the trend of increasing numbers of endocrine disorders in humans and wildlife.
in view of the potential health hazard, i therefore decided to vote in favour of the objection, reiterating the need for the commission to draw up as soon as possible a comprehensive proposal on gmos and gm-based feed in order to carefully assess the environmental and health impact of these technologies.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the dangers of ionising radiation.
i believe that the precautionary principle must always prevail when environmental protection is at stake.
the efsa studies state that the potential for pollen spread by lepidopterans of this particular type of carnation cannot be excluded and that its stems cut with vegetative shoots may spread into the environment by rooting or micropropagation.
in addition, once their ornamental function is over, gm carnations become waste which, in accordance with the principles of the circular economy, can be disposed of by composting and used as fertilisers.
for example, once the ornamental function of carnations is over, they become waste which, in accordance with the principles of the circular economy, can be disposed of by composting.
however, efsa has not yet examined the impact of these emissions on the environment, nor has it assessed the possible consequences for humans of the intentional consumption of carnations.
i want to make this clear: in addition to the waste of public resources, in addition to the negative considerations about the effects of the reform, it seems to us very questionable that the power of the union legislator to create new courts also includes the power to proceed to their abolition, thus changing a judicial architecture that is certainly constitutional and written in the founding treaties.
today, however, we find that the main issues on which parliament has expressed itself clearly, for example the lesser duty rule, the application of which was to be limited also in cases of social and environmental dumping, have been reopened in the council.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr katainen, vice-president of the commission, mr minister, i am presenting the oral question on behalf of the committee on the environment.
the resumption of whaling by the japanese authorities therefore constitutes a violation of international law and threatens the protection of biodiversity and marine ecosystems.
japan's intention is in clear contradiction to the international moratorium on commercial hunting of sea giants, and is a continuing violation of international law and obligations to protect biodiversity and marine ecosystems.
europe must stand up and it cannot allow commercial interests to always take precedence over environmental interests.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr vice-president of the commission, if the union is to play a leading role on the international scene, it must promote its competitiveness through strategic sectors such as industry and energy.
our continent is made to stand up for itself, and the economic sphere has always been the sphere through which europe has told the world about a strong, solid, sustainable development model, based on the great creativity of our entrepreneurs and our citizens in general and, on the other hand, on the great awareness that to build economic development requires respect for the person.
through the european semester the commission pushes for structural reforms in member states to improve the business environment.
i will tell you very frankly, mr commissioner, that beyond the individual answers, all of them valid, what we are asking for and what is missing - but the interlocutor would be another commissioner or a vice-president - is an industrial strategy, a mobility strategy, a strategy of environmental sustainability which, around the whole manufacturing of the railway sector, assumes what europe has in mind and what it wants to do.
today, it is not only the difficult political environment that is attracting criticism, but also the recent serious court cases.
freedom of the press is virtually non-existent, considering the climate of restriction and censorship created by the government to counter independent information.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the vietnamese regime has decided to respond with violence to legitimate voices of protest against the institutional failure to respond to the ecological disaster that has severely damaged the fish stocks in the coastal provinces.
i have therefore decided to vote against the reform not only because i consider it a waste of money but also because i do not believe that it will in any way benefit the citizens.
we fear that this reform, far from solving the critical problems in the administration of justice within the european union, may generate new waste without increasing the efficiency of the court.
the introduction of measures and assistance for enterprises could not only promote economic growth but also help to develop new strategies for environmental protection and technological development.
‒ studies show that rail interoperability and safety is a central element of the sustainable development model for the europe of the future.
it will also be appropriate to develop an industrial policy that promotes sustainable transport, supports innovation in the railway sector, including small and medium-sized enterprises, and allows for the training of specialised staff.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the competitiveness of the european railway industry, which is at the heart of the transition to sustainable mobility.
despite the good environmental performance that the sector is able to offer and the great capacity to transport large volumes, there are still competition problems.
and yes, no less important are the solid, steadfast ties created between us: ties embodied today in a wide array of joint ventures and cooperation, in research and innovation, in health and the environment, education and culture and many more areas.
we should foster and promote joint israeli-palestinian development ventures in the fields of renewable energy, infrastructure and the environment, joint industrial and tourism ventures and cultural and social ventures: between israeli and palestinian local authorities, and between private corporations and business people on both sides.
for instance, the ecological park being developed through cooperation between the regional council of gilboa and the palestinian city of jenin, with the support of the international community, in which the shared kishon river is undergoing cleaning and purification processes, with the aim of providing a solution to one of the most complex issues of the conflict – the water problem.
let me end by saying that successful elections will depend not only on technicalities, but also on their achieving the right climate in terms of respect for rights and freedoms.
four , you 're not going to we call on the african union to do its part and to invest more energy in resolving this conflict.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the agreement on the multiannual plan for the baltic lays the foundations for the sustainable management of the most important fish stocks in the baltic sea.
multiannual management plans have proved to be very useful for the sustainable management of fisheries resources, as they establish clear rules for the exploitation of fish stocks, based on the precautionary approach and the principle of maximum sustainable yield, thereby ensuring conditions of stability and predictability.
i am thinking of mechanics, transport, the environment, the fight against pollution and the provision of technologies for the exploitation of renewable energy sources.
after iran's commitment to use nuclear energy for civilian purposes only, the signals of openness coming from tehran must be consolidated and directed towards a constructive dialogue at international level, which will open the way to iran's full reintegration into the international community.
we now have a much more focused agenda which concentrates on key issues, namely the provision of relevant and high-quality knowledge, the recognition and transparency of skills, inclusive education including the promotion of civic competences, the promotion of innovative approaches fully embracing the digital era, strong support for our teachers and, last but not least, sustainable investment in education and training.
energy is the topic of today.
we want the union to set binding targets of 40% for energy efficiency and at least 30% for renewables, translated into specific national targets.
we want to see a chapter on prosumers, which will no longer leave them to the dancing moods of the various governments, and we want to see a common definition of the term, the rights to self-production, self-consumption, storage and sale of excess energy, forms of support, investment and the elimination of the main administrative and market barriers.
we simply want the energy union to be truly citizen-centred and to enable europeans to escape the constraints of energy geopolitics once and for all.
we want to respect the paris agreement and leave fossil fuels in the ground, the only guarantee to avoid climate catastrophe.
we have to be the flywheel, the human flywheel... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the debate on renewable energy and energy efficiency is a debate which is very passionate and unfortunately often has a strong potential for rhetorical decay, so that many of my colleagues sometimes take very strong positions and are very much concerned with environmental protection when they speak in this house and then perhaps they are invited to a conference organized by the steel industry in an eastern country and in that place, after saying that we must protect the environment, they say that jobs come first.
the first: europe has historically achieved excellent levels of sustainability in the context of economic development that also protects the environment, without the need for a gun to the head.
so let us give europe a reasoning which is capable of speaking of true sustainability, that is, investment that is sustained over time.
the subsidies that governments normally decide to give to renewable energy production are usually good, but sometimes they are bad.
today that money is a cost to the citizens, to a sector that...
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the five star movement considers it essential to move quickly away from reliance on fossil fuels in order to facilitate widespread self-production and self-sufficiency in energy based on renewable sources.
the european union's commitment to reducing co2 emissions, but also the urgency of taking action to drastically reduce the level of pollutants such as heavy metals and dioxins in the air, water and soil, should oblige all states to put in place effective measures in a timely manner.
it's about our health and our environment, but it's also about our financial resources, given the health and social costs of an environment devastated by our dependence on fossil fuels like oil, coal and gas.
a major effort is needed to ensure that the transition is rapid, and this can be supported by research, innovation and the effective and efficient use of all available european funds to increase energy efficiency and renewable energy production.
this effort should not be held back, as we have unfortunately seen in countries like mine, by so-called structural reforms which in fact translate into policies of...
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the current combination of binding national targets, national action plans for renewable energy and biennial monitoring has been the driving force behind the development of renewable energy production capacity in the member states.
the commission should, however, ensure full implementation of the 2020 renewable energy targets and should present an ambitious regulatory framework for the period afterwards.
in this regard, a stable long-term regulatory framework is needed, including renewable energy targets at national and union level.
the production of electricity from renewable sources should be integrated into distribution systems.
unfortunately, in many member states the networks are simply unsuitable to receive electricity generated from variable renewable sources.
a modernisation of energy networks is therefore essential.
it is therefore essential to achieve our energy efficiency objectives by moving away from fossil fuels and phasing out subsidies for these fuels.
being able to identify instances of maladministration reduces waste, increases the efficiency of the system and instills confidence in our european citizens, and that is precisely the aim.
the main aims of the protocol are to promote the progressive liberalisation of trade, sustainable development and investment.
the agreement, which relates to financial accounts of residents, will take effect on 1 january 2017. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the dangers of ionizing radiation.
the european fisheries policy must therefore take a stand, choose a right direction, and i suggest that of supporting artisanal and traditional fishing, i choose small-scale fishing, operators who for centuries have relied on the sea and who today are crushed by rules and economic interests that have little to do with environmental sustainability.
i therefore voted in favour of it because i believe that such strategies will not only benefit the environment and biodiversity but also ensure sustainable economic development.
‒ respect for the diversity of fisheries and the sustainability of our seas are unquestioned priorities in european fisheries, environment and sea policies.
the conservation of the ecosystem and the increase in the reserve, while at the same time keeping employment levels in mind, was the objective we set ourselves and which we can now say we have achieved.
thanks to eu environmental policies and the efforts of fishermen to limit catches of bluefin tuna, we are now in a position to raise fishing levels.
this plan aims to rebuild the bluefin tuna stock by reducing the total allowable catch and selectivity of catches for biodiversity.
‒ given the need to protect bluefin tuna from overexploitation in the atlantic and the importance of cooperating to maintain the consumption of this species at maximum sustainable levels, i welcome the proposal to incorporate into union law all the amendments to the recovery plan adopted by iccat in 2012, 2013 and 2014 that have not yet been transposed.
in addition, such gears have a very low impact on marine ecosystems due to their low level of energy consumption and bycatch.
‒ since 2008, the european union has launched a cod management plan to ensure the sustainable development of fisheries.
last march, however, the council signed the new multiannual fisheries pact for the baltic sea, not only updating the rules for the management of certain fish species, but above all introducing new concepts of sustainability.
the ecosystem approach, which emphasises the biological interaction between species, is accompanied by the provision of a maximum sustainable yield, which imposes a maximum allowable catch.
i therefore voted in favour, considering that protecting the biodiversity of our seas and the environment is without doubt one of the european priorities.
‒ the baltic sea is a highly sensitive ecosystem, a virtually closed water basin in which the mutual relationships between the various marine species are of paramount importance.
the scientific advice of the international council for the exploration of the sea (ices) indicates that for some of these stocks the current exploitation rates are not compatible with the achievement of the maximum sustainable yield as provided for by the cfp.
given the strong influence of biological interactions and environmental effects on the baltic sea stocks, i think it is desirable to be able to adapt the patterns and rates of exploitation of these stocks in the light of the progress made in the scientific understanding of the interactions and changes in environmental conditions.
‒ the new multiannual plan for cod, herring and sprat stocks in the baltic sea includes new concepts such as the ecosystem approach and biological interaction between fish species.
i think it is important that a control plan is created because biological interactions and environmental effects have a strong influence on fisheries.
better information on these issues will certainly improve the balanced and sustainable exploitation of these stocks, ensure the stability of fishing opportunities and, as a result, bring many benefits to fishermen.
this is the first multiannual plan to take account of the interactions between species, to ensure balanced and sustainable exploitation of fisheries and better economic conditions for fishermen in the long term.
thanks to parliament, strong safeguard measures have been secured to keep stocks at sustainable levels and to ensure a rapid return to acceptable levels in the event of depletion.
a model for sustainable fisheries management, in ecological, economic and social terms, is the only approach capable of avoiding cyclical crises in the long term, which, in addition to serious environmental damage, have repercussions on the sector, putting at risk the jobs and safety of thousands of families.
this vision has the merit of aiming at a balanced and sustainable management of stocks, and ensuring a level of fishing that ensures a stable income for fishermen.
the difficulties of the approach to the common fisheries policy arise from the need to find a compromise between the two opposing requirements of the sustainability of fish stocks on the one hand and the necessary flexibility for operators in the sector and member states in applying the rules on the conservation of fish species on the other.
in particular, i am in favour of including in the plan forecasts relating to the regionalisation and economic, social and environmental sustainability of fishing activities.
environmental effects and biological interactions have an effect on marine stocks and therefore it is necessary to implement rules for the protection of certain species.
finally, agreement was reached on the first multiannual plan under the new cfp and, for these reasons, i am voting in favour of the commission's proposal for a sustainable fishery for the stocks in the baltic sea.
this plan allows for the balanced and sustainable exploitation of these stocks and ensures the stability of fishing opportunities and the livelihoods of fishermen, while ensuring that management is based on the most up-to-date scientific advice on the state of the stocks concerned, interactions between species and other aspects of the ecosystem and fishing activities.
‒ having regard to the european commission's multiannual plan for cod, herring and sprat stocks in the baltic sea, whereas the three species account for 94% of the catches in the baltic sea in recent years and whereas, although a cod stock management plan exists, it is not adequate to the current situation; whereas, with regard to the other two species, there is a lack of legislation and regulation and that this deficiency must necessarily be corrected, also in the light of the protection of the ecosystem; i therefore consider that the drawing up of a single plan, including other fish species and based on up-to-date scientific studies, would be an appropriate way of filling the regulatory gap and ensuring greater protection of the stocks, and i therefore consider it appropriate to vote in favour of the proposal in question.
‒ i believe that a management plan covering several species in the baltic sea is more effective than management of a single species, because it allows for a balanced and sustainable exploitation of cod, herring and sprat stocks in the baltic sea and guarantees the stability of fishing opportunities and, consequently, the livelihoods of fishermen.
the baltic sea stock plan is the first of its kind to be adopted under the new common fisheries policy; it ensures that fishing activities in the area concerned are environmentally sound and economically sustainable.
the aim of the regulation is to allow for the balanced and sustainable exploitation of these fish species, which together account for 94% of total catches.
the multi-species management plan established by this regulation requires that more account be taken of the different ecological functions and roles of the species covered by the plan.
in the resolution adopted today we also affirmed the need to bring to justice those responsible for the human rights violations perpetrated, in order to counteract the climate of substantial inertia and impunity which has fostered the commission of further crimes.
the killing and abduction of thousands of people, the burning of villages, health centres and schools, sexual violence against women and children, and the forced recruitment of minors continue to take place in a climate of impunity and general indifference on the part of the media, the national government and international organisations.
in this state of alarm, i support more decisive action in the country to put an end to the current massacres and to restore a climate of peace and security.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this resolution because i am convinced that renewable energies are the future of europe, not only because of their environmental value but also because they give economic impetus to the regions.
there are regions, such as my own, sicily, southern italy and europe, which could become experimental hubs for the development of renewable energy and could even aspire to energy self-sufficiency, but they have very high pollution levels and we are still talking about oil.
clearly, the development of clean energy in europe requires strong political will.
first of all, we must help the regions to spend the structural funds, because under the current cohesion policy the share of renewable energy funds is only 1.4%.
and then we have to channel and direct the huge funds for renewable energy to those regions which are rich in resources but are weaker on the planning and planning fronts.
renewable energy is the key to growth, to creating cleaner cities, a healthier environment and a better europe.
‒ the european union is committed to developing environmentally friendly policies and strategies, based on a sustainable energy model.
climate change, social and security policies and, finally, the renewal of production systems have highlighted the need to put renewable energies at the heart of eu priorities.
the new 2030 strategy aims to create a decentralised model that can deliver the energy transition with improved outcomes in terms of independence, efficiency and sustainability.
‒ the european union has long been on the path towards an energy transition to renewable energy.
this is a medium- and long-term vision of great strategic value, which aims not only to promote the achievement of international objectives, including those established at the recent cop21, but above all to ensure that the old continent achieves true energy independence based on a sustainable system geared to the future.
administrative procedures need to be simplified, legislation strengthened to create a more integrated energy market, mechanisms for sharing good national energy policies should be encouraged and investment in electricity storage systems should be encouraged.
the targets set for 2020 must be met, while establishing a long-term regulatory framework for achieving the union's 2050 climate targets.
‒ the development of renewable energy is a key factor in achieving our climate and energy goals and a key element in our decarbonisation journey.
the european union is on track to meet its 2020 renewable energy targets overall, but further efforts are needed by member states that have fallen further behind.
such efforts are all the more necessary in the light of the gradual decrease in the costs of such energy, which, together with technological advances in production and storage, has made renewable energy increasingly competitive and cost-effective.
it is therefore important that support for these energy sources continues beyond 2020, maintaining the effective combination of binding targets and national action plans that have enabled us to achieve tangible results so far, in an ambitious and effective regulatory framework that is able to send appropriate and long-term signals to investors.
‒ renewable energy is the future of the eu's long-term development.
we must implement economic policies that make them the fundamental pillar of the european union's energy model.
we have a historic task: to combat climate change and reduce our dependence on the rest of the world's energy resources to restructure our production model and create quality jobs, as well as safeguard our territory and the future of our descendants.
the transition to a sustainable energy production model is also a social priority that cannot be left to the market alone: we need to understand that regulation and democratic participation are necessary to avoid serious social and environmental crises.
we must prevent energy oligopolies from defining the future of energy for europe, but instead ensure an integrated, efficient and clean european energy model by 2050.
in writing.
‒ today i voted in favour of this report to ensure that the eu's renewable energy target of 20% of total consumption by 2020 is met by all eu member states.
the commission should ensure the full implementation of the 2020 renewable energy directive and should present an ambitious regulatory framework for the period after 2020. in this context, i stress the need for a stable long-term regulatory framework, including renewable energy targets at national and eu level, to achieve the eu's long-term climate goals (2050).
i would remind you that the european parliament's request for binding targets of at least 30% of energy from renewable sources in energy consumption must be implemented by means of national targets in order to provide the necessary security for investors and legal certainty.
‒ i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on progress on renewable energy.
the report addresses a critical review of the framework resulting from directive 2009/28/ec and provides insights to use the decentralised and democratized energy model to implement the energy transition and derive the related results in terms of independence, efficiency and sustainability.
‒ although fossil fuels are still economically irreplaceable, the development of renewable energy is strategic for the future of a europe that has no oil but has sun and wind.
‒ the target of 20% of total renewable energy consumption by 2020 is implemented differently in different member states.
at the same time, i support the re-launch of the 2050 targets towards a sovereign, efficient and clean energy model.
we have a duty and a responsibility to combat climate change by reducing our dependence on resources that we are forced to import from the rest of the world.
we must increasingly ensure that sustainable and indigenous energy production is a key element in the recovery of our economy, in conjunction with job creation.
the eu renewable energy directive is a legal instrument that needs to be supported and implemented, with binding targets and clear rules.
we need to act at a lower level, raising awareness and stimulating the active contribution of our citizens and consumers, through campaigns and incentives that can make them truly protagonists of a season of renewed sustainability on our continent.
‒ the need to move away from fossil fuel dependence is urgent, to facilitate widespread self-production and energy self-sufficiency.
the eu's commitment to reducing co2 emissions, but also the need to drastically reduce pollutants such as heavy metals and dioxins in air, water and soil, should require all eu states to put effective measures into practice in a timely manner.
it is our health and our environment that is at stake, but also our financial resources, given the health and social costs of an environment devastated by our dependence on fossil fuels like oil and its derivatives, coal and gas.
a rapid transition requires research, innovation and the effective and efficient use of all available european funds for energy efficiency and renewable energy production.
in short, europe's cities and regions need to achieve a paradigm shift, but to do so, there must be clear and binding commitments to rely on a truly renewable energy mix.
‒ i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on progress on renewable energy because, in addition to containing a number of important recommendations for the new 2030 renewable energy directive, it refers to 'prosumers', a revolutionary new model of energy production and consumption that sees citizens fully involved in cooperative and self-production models.
an important step towards the energy transition referred to by the 5 star movement, a decentralised and democratic energy model that guarantees independence, efficiency and sustainability.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the development of renewable energy requires a different approach that makes it the fundamental pillar of the european union's energy model.
our fundamental responsibility as representatives of the european people is to fight climate change, a historic duty that we must not neglect.
it is also becoming essential to reduce dependence on the rest of the world's energy resources if we are to structure our production model and generate quality jobs, as well as drive the development of strategic technologies for the energy transition.
‒ the fight against climate change is made up of concrete commitments that the eu and its member states must follow up on year after year.
i therefore share the call in the report we are voting on today for the commission to increase its overall political commitment, precisely to monitor the action of the states and above all to introduce concrete instruments - for example, an ad hoc financial mechanism - aimed at reducing the cost of capital and the risks associated with renewable energy projects.
‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on progress in renewable energy because i believe that the development of renewable energy requires a new approach that makes it the fundamental pillar of the eu's energy model.
in the face of climate change, the eu must reduce its dependence on the rest of the world's energy resources if it is to truly structure its production model and create quality jobs, as well as drive the development of strategic technologies for the transition to a sustainable energy production model, which is a social priority.
this transition cannot be left to the market alone, but must be regulated by the eu in such a way that unfair competition between eu member states is not created, which would result in harm to citizens in the form of social and environmental externalities.
i believe that the current combination of binding national targets, national renewable energy action plans and biennial monitoring has been the driving force behind the development of renewable energy capacity in the member states.
a regulatory framework that respects the principle of proportionality, recognising a key role for local authorities, communities, households and individuals in the energy transition, is needed.
‒ favourable to the progress report on renewable energy.
while the progress made by member states in achieving their national renewable energy targets attests to the merits of the union's renewable energy policy, it is necessary to further encourage member states that have been slower to step up their efforts in order to ensure the achievement of ambitious 2030 energy and climate targets that allow for a secure inflow of investment and financing in the renewable energy sector.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states.
‒ in the face of a steady rise in global temperature to 1.5°c above pre-industrial levels, due to the disproportionate use of non-renewable and non-sustainable energy resources, we warmly welcome the proposal.
the development of renewable energy sources through directive 2009/28/ec has significantly reduced production costs and thus fostered eu technological leadership that will create up to 20 million jobs in the green economy by 2020. therefore, it is of key importance not only to increase cooperation and coordination between member states but above all to combine binding national action plans with common objectives, verified by biennial controls, in order to meet the commitments made under the paris agreement (cop 21).
this is possible through powerful economic incentives, such as the implementation of tax breaks and the promotion of public investment, in order to facilitate a transition to a fully self-sustaining, efficient and clean energy model by 2050. in order to achieve this, we also believe that it is necessary to support research and development activities and to provide support to member states to take additional measures in order to achieve these ambitious objectives in time.
‒ the fight against climate change and the search for alternative methods to reduce the eu's dependence on external energy sources are addressed in the renewable energy directive (2009/28/ec).
the process of transforming the energy mix of the member states is creating a favourable environment for the development of the renewable energy sector.
‒ the transition to a sustainable energy production model is a political, economic, social and environmental priority for the european union.
the renewable energy directive has proven to be an effective tool to start the process of transforming the energy mix of its member states, with binding targets and clear rules for supervision and control.
the report states that by 2030, at least 30% of energy must come from renewable sources.
the report promotes the development of renewables as a fundamental pillar of the european union's energy model and i therefore vote in favour of it.
‒ one of our key responsibilities is to combat climate change and reduce our dependence on energy from the rest of the world if we are to generate quality jobs and drive the development of strategic technologies for the energy transition.
the eu has provided a legal instrument to achieve these objectives with the renewable energy directive (2009/28/ec).
this legal instrument has created a favourable environment for the development of the renewable energy sector and has contributed to the growth of a diverse and diversified sector.
i believe that the next revision of the renewable energy directive should include measures to promote and encourage investment in these areas.
a more integrated market is essential for the development of renewable energy and the reduction of energy costs.
‒ i voted in favour of the progress report on renewable energy, a subject which is receiving a lot of attention at european level and on which the commission is expected to present a new proposal by the end of 2016, following the communication published in june last year.
the text discussed in the itre committee, of which i am a member, contains many strengths necessary to achieve the 2020 energy targets.
these include cost-effectiveness and competitiveness of renewable energy, safeguarding national competences for the energy mix and promoting diversification of energy supply sources.
it goes without saying that renewables represent an increasingly tangible future in the energy landscape, with an increasingly renewable-oriented union.
however, the project of a 100% renewable energy economy seems to me frankly unrealistic, especially in the short term.
that is why i believe that gas is a resource that should not be underestimated in the eu's energy needs.
‒ this report puts renewable energy at the heart of the european union's energy model and we therefore voted in favour.
we have won many of our demands in the report, such as the call for a more ambitious target of at least 30% renewable energy to be broken down into individual national targets, and the creation of a sound and transparent governance system that values the participation of citizens.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against pollution caused by nitrates from agricultural sources.
the commission has also asked the member states to develop a community energy strategy and to define a more favourable investment environment for self-production and self-consumption, together with the creation of single support offices.
this resolution, which i voted for, argues that in order to reduce the eu's dependence on energy imports, it is necessary to invest in renewable energy and energy efficiency policies.
this is intended to meet the challenges posed by climate change by promoting a renewal of the production model but also ensuring energy security as a social priority.
the eu's renewable energy target of 20% of total consumption by 2020 has already been achieved by many eu member states.
the report examines the eu's progress on renewable energy and sets out the ambitious targets for the next revision of the renewable energy directive.
the importance of self-production and self-consumption of energy is emphasised, as the role of citizens and consumers is crucial for the achievement of energy efficiency objectives.
it also calls for the eu to invest in programmes that promote new technical advances in energy efficiency.
i believe that the creation of a more integrated market is essential for the development of renewable energy and the reduction of energy costs.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report on energy efficiency because this has been a crucial year for reflection and for setting new environmental, energy and climate objectives.
it was the year of cop21, which set ambitious targets for an environment that is clearly suffering.
yet it seems that europe is not able to meet its target of reducing co2 emissions by 20% by 2020. so let's ask ourselves what's not working.
i believe that the problem facing europe in the field of the environment and energy is also the rigidity of its rules and bureaucracy, which are in sharp contrast to the economic crisis europe is facing at the same time.
the objectives of energy policy, like those of environmental policy and many others, cannot be effective without the flexibility needed to adapt them to changes in the economic landscape and to global transformations.
the way forward is to achieve energy efficiency and to focus on green economy as the flywheel for the economy.
‒ in line with european priorities, the 2012 energy efficiency directive set out a set of binding measures to achieve 20% energy efficiency by 2020. unfortunately, the text has not been fully implemented by all member states, due to industrial and economic interests, which often undermine the objectives of such policies.
for these reasons, i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the directive, considering it a priority to protect the environment and the health of citizens through better cooperation between the member states in the energy sector.
‒ today i voted in favour of the pieper report on the implementation of the energy efficiency directive.
the issues of energy saving and efficiency are crucial not only for the protection of the environment and the climate, in line with the objectives set at cop21 in paris, but also for the development of european competitiveness and for an increase in employment.
the 2012 energy efficiency directive and the 2010 buildings directive have been key tools in providing important innovative impetus to member states' systems of obligations and incentives.
the commission must take additional action to ensure a coherent climate and energy policy by establishing appropriate rules.
the text calls on the eu to develop a long-term strategy for reducing energy demand, extending and making more ambitious the targets set by the current directives which expire in 2020.
in writing.
it laments the lack of implementation of the energy efficiency directive in the member states, but deliberately never mentions the real cause of this lack of implementation by the states: the eu-imposed stability pact regime, which prevents the investments needed to comply with the legislation.
‒ in the context of the objectives set at cop21 in paris and the actions needed to achieve a resilient energy union with an effective and far-sighted climate policy, energy efficiency is clearly a key issue.
nevertheless, the results achieved so far under the energy efficiency directive appear to be insufficient, with a considerable gap in actual implementation between the various european countries.
some member states have not complied, or at least not fully, with their obligations to establish internal rules to promote energy efficiency, resulting in a very heterogeneous overall picture which indicates some difficulty in achieving the 2020 targets.
if the european union is to continue to lead on climate action, while increasing the energy security of its citizens and reducing its dependence on external supplies, a stronger and more coordinated effort at european level is needed, based on binding targets and not just for 2020, but for 2030 and beyond, as the socialist and democratic group has called for.
‒ we voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the energy efficiency directive because the references to ambitious and binding targets at european and national level were not removed during the vote on the amendments in plenary.
we want the european union to set binding targets of 40% for energy efficiency and at least 30% for renewables, always translated into specific national targets.
and the role of citizens in the broader energy transition towards a decentralised renewable energy generation model will need to be enhanced.
it is crucial that the energy union really puts citizens at the centre and thus allows all europeans to escape the constraints and balances of energy geopolitics.
‒ the european union is the world's leading territorial entity in terms of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, which have fallen by 23% over the last 20 years.
european businesses and citizens have started to grow, creating jobs and generating tax revenues in an environmentally sustainable way.
the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the energy efficiency of buildings, such as the reduction of co2 emissions by 20%, the increase in the share of renewable energy sources in total consumption by 20%, and the improvement of energy efficiency by 20%.
the commission and parliament should support efforts to achieve the objectives, in particular by working to reduce red tape in the energy sector and to reduce high price levels for medium-sized businesses and households: the calming effects of energy savings are countered by national specific tax burdens and a complex reporting procedure.
energy efficiency is an important advance: the implementation of the directive will be crucial for saving citizens and businesses, as well as for achieving the europe 2020 objectives.
reducing waste and improving energy efficiency are the cornerstones of a sustainable future.
‒ today i voted in favour of this report to ensure that the eu's energy efficiency legislation is fully implemented and accelerated and that the eu's key target of 20% energy savings by 2020 is achieved.
i also reiterate parliament's call for binding targets to be introduced to ensure that renewable energy accounts for at least 30% of total energy consumption by 2030. more investment is needed in information and support programmes in the member states, which could help increase participation in the current mandatory local energy efficiency schemes, as well as promote new technical advances in areas such as cooling, lighting and insulation.
in fact, the role of consumers is crucial for the achievement of energy efficiency targets, for example through the renovation of buildings, district heating and cooling systems.
i would stress that energy-efficient renovation of buildings should be a priority, so as to help energy-poor residents.
finally, it is essential to achieve our energy efficiency objectives by moving away from fossil fuels and phasing out subsidies for these fuels.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the energy efficiency directive.
i agree with the proposals for better coordination and efficiency of the various community legislative provisions and with the reference to the contribution that energy efficiency policies should make to the achievement of the employment and innovation objectives.
i regret to say this because i agree with better energy savings by businesses, but i am not at all in favour of a 40% mandatory saving.
in addition to energy savings, what the european union needs is better efficiency in the sector, but we cannot ask companies to be more efficient if we impose such a high savings rate on them.
this positive development was largely due to the results of the incentive system for lower emissions, which could trigger investment in more efficient technologies.
‒ i voted in favour of the report because, as the data show, greenhouse gas emissions within the european union fell by 23% between 1990 and 2014. the commission is therefore moving towards the 2020 targets of a 20% reduction in co2 emissions, a 20% increase in the share of renewable energy sources in total consumption and a 20% improvement in energy efficiency.
‒ energy efficiency is a key objective for achieving the environmental sustainability targets solemnly set in paris a few months ago, which are in line with the eu's longstanding international commitments.
it is therefore very important to be able to monitor the implementation of one of the most important directives in european environmental legislation today.
‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on the implementation of the energy efficiency directive (2012/27/eu) because i believe it is very important to send a signal to member states to continue to commit themselves to the eu's energy efficiency targets 20% savings by 2020 and to fully implement existing community legislation and in a more timely manner.
eu greenhouse gas emissions fell by 23% between 1990 and 2014. at the same time, eu gdp increased by 46%.
with less and less impact on the climate, businesses and citizens are generating growth, jobs and tax revenue.
the european union is on track to meet its 2020 target of reducing co2 emissions by 20%, increasing the share of renewable energy sources in total consumption by 20% and improving energy efficiency by 20%.
it not only provides incentives for lower emissions, but also triggers investment in more energy-efficient technologies.
‒ given the importance of new, renewable and more efficient energy sources in a global context of major climate challenges, we welcome the commission's proposal.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy and climate objectives, including the implementation of the energy union strategy, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy and climate objectives.
following the eu's participation in the paris climate conference, we committed ourselves to reducing europe's energy insecurity, exemplified by an annual expenditure of 358 billion on energy imports, over the medium term.
this will be achieved through increased efficiency, particularly in the building sector, which accounts for almost half of final energy consumption and 36% of co2 emissions, so that there is a 40% energy decarbonisation by 2030 and a total decarbonisation by 2050, which will bring about a significant improvement in living standards and an overall increase in employment.
we therefore suggest to the commission a revised text in which priority is given to the 2030 energy targets and more ambitious directives against european energy poverty.
‒ it is well known that the european union has committed itself to achieving the target of reducing co2 emissions by 20%, increasing the share of renewable energy sources in total consumption by 20% and improving energy efficiency by 20% by 2020. given that greenhouse gas emissions have decreased by more than 20% between 1990 and 2014, while gdp has grown by almost twice, i can assume that the above objectives are achievable.
therefore, while i support the call to the commission to implement measures to manage a coherent climate and energy policy, i do not feel that i support the views expressed in this document and i vote against it.
‒ the eu target of 20% energy efficiency by 2020 was ambitious but achievable.
in the amendments tabled in the envi committee i had expressed the need to set a binding target of 40% energy efficiency by 2030 to be implemented through national targets and asked for binding energy efficiency targets to be set also for 2050 in line with the ambitious commitments set out in the paris agreement to keep the global temperature increase below 1.5°c.
i have also repeatedly expressed my concern about the increasing pollution caused by domestic heating systems powered by solid biomass, which produce large quantities of fine dust, nitrogen oxides, carbon monoxide and dioxins which are extremely harmful to air quality and therefore harmful to human health.
the implementation of efficient and environmentally friendly alternative solutions must be in synergy with the transition to a low-carbon circular economy.
‒ energy efficiency and saving are important factors for protecting the environment and climate, for strengthening economic competitiveness and job creation, for security of supply and for tackling energy poverty.
this report on the implementation of the 2012 energy efficiency directive recognises that we are behind the 2020 targets and at the same time calls for a much more ambitious approach for 2030, reiterating parliament's position on the need for a 40% target instead of the modest 27% proposed by the council.
the report also sets out a number of measures to tackle energy poverty, such as the priority member states should give to energy-efficient refurbishment of public or vulnerable household buildings.
‒ the european union is on track to meet its 2020 target of reducing co2 emissions by 20%, increasing the share of renewable energy sources by 20% and improving energy efficiency by 20%.
the eu should therefore invest more in information and support programmes in the member states, which could help increase participation in current mandatory local energy efficiency schemes, as well as promote new technical advances in areas such as cooling, lighting and insulation.
‒ the text discussed in the itre committee and presented in plenary by mr pieper concerns the implementation of the energy efficiency directive 2012/27.
this directive establishes a strategic framework for the promotion of energy efficiency in the eu and imposes a non-binding 20% target for energy efficiency to be achieved by 2020. although much remains to be done to close the energy gap between member states, the commission recognised the commitment and efforts made to improve energy efficiency.
in line with the positions i have always taken on energy efficiency, such as the achievement of ambitious but flexible targets, and in line with the ppe group, i voted against the pieper report.
the report considers energy efficiency to be key to achieving the eu's climate and energy objectives.
stresses that efficiency is of paramount importance in order to reduce our dependence on energy imports, create jobs, reduce energy poverty, improve well-being and health and stimulate the economy; calls for the phasing out of fossil fuel subsidies and for the resources freed up to be channelled towards improving energy efficiency and the decarbonisation process.
important victories of the m5s were the inclusion in the report of the binding eu target of 40% by 2030, with specific national targets, and the call to consider energy efficiency as a priority to increase the resilience of the energy system.
we also asked that the energy saved be considered as a stand-alone resource, expressed in "negawatts".
this report also calls on the eu and member states to recognise the importance of local authorities and citizens as key actors in energy efficiency in the transition to a more sustainable economy.
i voted in favour of this report because, in the context of the eu's energy and climate policy, it is of great importance in setting out a set of binding measures to guide the eu in achieving the targets of increasing energy efficiency by 20%, increasing renewable energy production by 20% and reducing co2 emissions by 20%, all by 2020. unfortunately, the directive has not been fully implemented in the various member states and although it is possible that the emission reduction target will be achieved in any case, the economic and industrial crisis that has hit the eu over the last eight years will be more to the credit than the work done by the various member states.
the epp rapporteur had tried to read this failure of the directive in a way that pitted industrial interests against climate and environmental objectives, calling for repeated deregulation and flexibility in the revision of the directive due in the autumn.
and when i speak of justice, i am talking about people, about human beings, social justice, triple a social justice, ambitious revision of the 'posted workers', social pillar, fight against social and fiscal dumping, fight against global warming.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
we need to return to the roots of the european project and ensure europe's sustainable prosperity.
we are launching a convention to revise the treaties, to improve and make europe more democratic, we are re-launching our values of social justice, sustainability and growth, to overcome once and for all the uncertainties of economic and social instability and to finally give answers to the many citizens who still believe that a united europe can represent a horizon of peace and prosperity.
the work was long because the dossier was technical but also because we had to wait for the conclusion of other dossiers, such as the regulation on emissions in real driving conditions and the interinstitutional agreement on better regulation.
i think we have struck a really important balance between protecting the environment and safeguarding the competitiveness of european industry.
we in europe will have the strictest emission limits in the world from 2019: we are talking about nitrogen oxide emissions, particulate matter emissions, and therefore air pollutants responsible for 15% of global emissions in this sector.
– mr president, i would like to thank the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) and warmly congratulate the rapporteur, mrs gardini, for her hard work on this file, which made it possible to find a satisfactory compromise and to swiftly adopt the regulation at first reading.
a fairer and deeper single market should also care about environmental protection and health.
in simple terms, this new regulation has two main goals: cutting emissions and cutting red tape.
the new regulation provides for more stringent limits for pollutant emissions for engines installed in non—road mobile machinery.
in this way, it is good for the environment and good for jobs and growth.
member states count on it to fulfil their obligations on air quality targets, industries rely on it to increase their competitiveness and to gain investment and legal certainty, and social partners and ngos call for it to improve workers’ health and to protect the environment.
indeed, engines installed in non-road mobile machinery contribute significantly to air pollution and account for roughly 15% of the nitrogen oxides and 5% of the particulate matter emissions in the european union.
recent studies indicate that their relative contribution to total nox emissions could become bigger over time if nothing is done.
the new regulation addresses the major air pollutants: nitrogen oxides, hydrocarbons, carbon monoxide and particulate matters, including limits for the so-called ultrafine particles, taking up the most recent conclusive evidence on their adverse health effects.
the adoption of this regulation will have a positive effect on the environment and on health, as well as on entrepreneurship and competitiveness in europe and this is, of course, good news.
after paris, after the climate change agreement, we're starting with a set of regulations that will lead us to improve and reduce the amount of emissions, thereby making life easier for citizens in all environments and improving air quality.
i must emphasize one thing: the reduction in emissions, with this regulation, is a strong, controlled reduction, looking to the years ahead.
this new regulation will certainly reduce pollutant emissions for engines installed in non-road mobile machinery, a very positive step for the environment and the health of european citizens.
i believe that this debate really represents the great effort, the great work that has been done and an example of how, by putting our energies together, listening to each other and trying to achieve the common goal of improving the quality of the environment, protecting the health of citizens, making all the possible efforts in the real world, we get a result that is then in the end the best.
we also introduced a new monitoring system to assess the performance of engines in real life, which will thus bridge the gap between the engine tests in the laboratory and the emissions in the real world, and we also introduced - this is a technical matter, but we understand each other - thanks also to the interinstitutional agreement on better regulation, a substantial number of delegated acts, which is why, for this reason too, i believe that parliament's role will be strengthened, another point that i added to the positive aspects.
i thank you all again: i also thank commissioner thyssen and i hope that tomorrow i will have a good majority in support of this which i reiterate and i think is a great step forward for all: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not only a good one, but also a good one.
in addition, labour market conditions in host countries are a determining factor in the success and sustainability of refugee integration.
europe cannot afford to let the human resources that our young people represent go to waste.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the new directive on the protection of the environment.
but at least my assessment - and i would like to ask my colleague for her comments on this - is that we must continue to improve and monitor expenditure, to ensure that there is no waste.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the energy label is a european success story, begun more than 20 years ago and copied by everyone in the world.
it is the commonly recognised passport that guarantees many products that are on the market and that enter the homes of 500 million citizens, to inform them about energy efficiency performance and other key characteristics.
together with eco-design, the energy label has enabled european citizens to buy increasingly time-efficient washing machines, refrigerators, ovens, light bulbs and heaters in just a few years, thus saving enormous amounts of energy, harmful emissions and money, thus reducing disease, environmental damage and, not least, partially reducing the political dependence of our continent.
the advent of the so-called "+" classes has made the difference between the steps and thus between the products less clear, in terms of energy consumption, price and other things.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against climate change and energy security also involve the free and informed choice of consumers who, by choosing solutions - in this case, energy-efficient appliances and devices - save energy, which in europe will reach 175 million tonnes of oil equivalent in 2020, equivalent to the entire primary energy requirement of italy over the course of a year.
the focus on the efficiency of household appliances is therefore a sensible choice, in the interests of those who will have to use these appliances at home, but it also gives continuity and coherence to european policies on energy and climate, of which this legislation has become a major part.
i think there is a strong consensus and there is indeed a strong support to revise the energy label and make it more efficient in order to facilitate for the consumer.
unfortunately, we cannot solve that particular problem here today, but today we can send a strong signal that we are agreeing to do something important, to facilitate for the consumers, to do important work here to revise energy labelling and the commission very much looks forward to continuing working with the european parliament to finalise this proposal, and again i want to thank the rapporteur and the different shadow rapporteurs for the work that has been done here.
today's vote on energy efficiency labelling is a major milestone, coming at the end of a long process that has seen me at the forefront of the environment and industry committees.
by returning to a single a-g scale for all products, we have tried to make the energy label clear again to consumers.
i am glad that the text adopted in strasbourg does contain some new features, such as the possibility of including in the labels a reference to 'intelligent appliances', which are interconnected and can achieve greater energy savings.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, the report i am about to present concerns, in my view, fundamental aspects of the european union's trade policy, namely the relationship between international trade and human rights, social rights, environmental standards and corporate social responsibility.
i think that the report makes a clear call to the commission: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers from the risks arising from exposure to asbestos is a welcome one.
let us therefore try to give concrete indications on how to relaunch, through trade policy, the union's commitment to promote and protect human, social and environmental rights, along with democracy and the rule of law.
i believe that this discontinuity is also necessary in trade policy, at a time when negotiations such as ttip and ceta, which could have enormous consequences for the lives of women and men in europe, are raising legitimate concerns, which are becoming more and more widespread in public opinion, also on the issues covered by this report: human rights, social and environmental standards.
the european parliament has repeatedly expressed the need for trade policy not to be directed solely at the profit of a few companies but to be part of a strategy of international relations aimed at promoting respect for human and social rights and the protection of the environment.
the union's trade policies must be developed in a manner consistent with policies on social protection, development, human rights and the environment.
i am also very proud of all the paragraphs that insist on our responsibility for fair trade, respectful of rights and oriented towards the objectives of sustainable development.
the european parliament, in this document, calls for these global supply chains to be clean, sustainable and respectful; that there is a duty of care to know whether the goods you buy are bloodstained, whether they are produced by child labour or human rights violations.
we have not stopped there, because we have called for the environment and animals to be included in the sustainability of trade, and we have called for greater control over compliance with the rules governing trade in protected species and farm animals.
to ensure that our partners keep to these commitments, we are calling loudly for new free trade agreements to include binding sustainable development chapters with clear sanction mechanisms for those who do not respect their commitments in terms of respect for human rights and the environment and with investigations, which we want to be able to be initiated also at the request of the european parliament.
the great opportunities for trade must of course be built on a solid foundation, which is the protection of european consumers and environmental, health and social standards.
we have chapters, in our agreements, on human rights, labour rights and sustainable development: they are enforceable and they are mandatory.
let us try to work together to make sure that trade is indeed responsible, sustainable and efficient.
today we are giving you a clear indication of a concept: the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment.
we are calling for a reformulation of the human rights clause and the sustainable development clauses, for example, so that they are truly binding, and for the possibility of derogating from trade agreements when the real enjoyment of human rights is not guaranteed.
we are calling for clear criteria for the identification of environmental assets.
trade relations can and must also be a tool for promoting high standards of protection and promotion of human rights, as well as social protection and sustainable development.
as shadow rapporteur for the s&d group on the committee on employment's opinion to the inta committee, i have been in favour of encouraging the application of social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate social responsibility in international trade agreements, both bilateral and multilateral, from the outset, ensuring not only ratification but also effective implementation of these agreements, in line with the ilo recommendations.
in order to provide incentives for the application of those standards, it is necessary to provide for the possibility of incentives for companies that promote corporate social responsibility (csr) and consider proactive measures to prevent human rights or environmental violations, to identify and prevent all human rights and environmental violations, including in relation to their branches and supply chain.
csr can play an important role in ensuring socially and economically sustainable growth and preventing corruption at european and international level.
we believe that the proposal responds to our call for trade agreements which are more attentive to the protection of the environment and workers' rights, to the objectives of reindustrialisation and to the need to regulate the phenomenon of globalisation in order to correct its side effects and ensure fair conditions of competition in the commercial arena.
this choice, because the conditions are not met, would pose a serious threat to workers and would damage the competitiveness and sustainability of the european manufacturing system.
the agreement will facilitate european trade in the peruvian state, where the eu is already present with numerous investment projects, particularly in water, transport and energy infrastructure.
‒ according to the european commission, air pollution in the union costs between eur 330 and 940 billion annually.
the european environment agency has estimated that about 72,000 premature deaths are attributable to nitrogen dioxide and another 403,000 to particulate matter.
the proposal for a regulation adopted reduces the limits imposed by the commission, but undertakes to maintain a balance between the competitiveness of enterprises and the protection of the environment.
the legislation provides in particular for the definition of different categories and subcategories of engines, setting for each of them emission limits for carbon monoxide (co), hydrocarbons (hc), nitrogen oxides (nox) and particulate matter (pm), and also foresees deadlines for their implementation from 2018.
in writing.
‒ non-road mobile engines are responsible for around 15% of carbon dioxide emissions and 5% of particulate matter emissions in the european union.
this regulation has struck an acceptable balance between the need to protect the health of our citizens and the environment on the one hand, and the need to ensure the competitiveness of european industry on the other.
we hope that this approach to harmonisation and the pursuit of balanced and sustainable progress will always be the practice of the eu, which must put the protection of the health of its citizens and of the businesses producing and operating in the eu first.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation on 'emission limits and type approval for internal combustion engines for non-road mobile machinery' as i believe that its effective implementation would bring significant environmental benefits and could contribute to the competitiveness of european industry and the proper functioning of the internal market for the sector, improving transparency and reducing administrative burdens.
i believe that the regulation could also remove external trade barriers and regulatory barriers by aligning the eu and us emissions requirements, also in the interests of the ongoing ttip agreement between the eu and the us.
‒ air pollution is a very sensitive issue.
i am convinced that a reduction in polluting emissions can greatly benefit the environment around us and in which we live.
technology is making great strides every year, and i believe we should take advantage of these innovations to have a cleaner and healthier environment.
‒ this proposal for a regulation is positive because it has the dual objective of improving health and environmental protection standards and ensuring the proper functioning of the internal market by removing trade barriers for combustion engines.
as regards environmental protection, the implementation of this regulation would bring significant benefits by reducing emissions from new engines which will, over time, replace older and more polluting engines.
moreover, by aligning eu and us emissions requirements, it removes barriers to foreign trade and reduces regulatory barriers.
‒ the non-road mobile machinery sector is a major contributor to air pollution, because of its harmful emissions in the form of gases or particulate matter.
according to recent data from the european commission, this represents 15% of all nitrogen oxides (nox) and 5% of all particulate matter in the union, with very serious consequences for both the environment and health.
i believe that effective and rapid implementation of the rules laid down in this regulation will help to improve the impact of non-road mobile machinery on air quality, with considerable benefits for our citizens both in terms of the environment and health.
‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on 'emission and type-approval limits for internal combustion engines for non-road mobile machinery' because i share the eu's air quality policies aimed at protecting health and the environment.
the resolution proposes a gradual reduction in emissions and the replacement of older engines which cause the most pollution, thus providing for legislation common to all member states aimed at the proper functioning of the internal market.
‒ in the eu, emissions from non-road mobile machinery (a wide range of engines, from the smallest powered hand tools to locomotive engines) are estimated to account for 15% of nitrogen oxides and 5% of particulate matter and their use, particularly in urban centres where their concentration becomes a significant source of air pollution.
‒ in its handling of the issue of emission limits for non-road mobile machinery, parliament pursued one particular objective: to achieve a reasonable balance between health and environmental concerns and the competitiveness of the european manufacturing sector, the jobs and skills it generates.
i voted with conviction for the amendments to the proposal for a regulation because i believe that the commitment to combat climate change must be truly horizontal and must be pursued consistently: the vote today will regulate a sector - non-road mobile machinery - which is a major contributor to emissions.
i therefore believe it is very important to step up the reform of european environmental policies, so that our production is increasingly geared to sustainability, efficiency and excellence.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on emission limitation and type approval requirements for internal combustion engines for non-road mobile machinery because reducing emissions from such equipment is a key element in ensuring clean and healthy air for all european citizens.
the category of non-road mobile machinery covers a wide range of equipment and vehicles, including inland waterway vessels, which are a major source of air pollution and generate around 15% of total nox emissions and around 5% of total pm emissions.
the ep agreed with the commission's initial choice to create the conditions for a modest degree of harmonisation between the legislation and requirements for non-road machinery and the legislation on vehicle emissions, including the establishment of a national authority responsible for monitoring.
air quality is of vital importance for the protection of both the environment and the health of our citizens.
the health and safety of our citizens is a key aspect of this proposal, especially for those who work with these machines every day, as they are particularly exposed to polluting emissions.
‒ there is no doubt that the non-road mobile machinery sector causes significant harmful emissions to public health.
the non-road mobile machinery sector is one of many sectors contributing to harmful emissions in the form of gases or particulate matter.
this is certainly a legislative act that increases the protection of the health of citizens and helps to combat global warming.
the envi committee has worked towards stricter emission limits, with the aim of safeguarding not only the environment but also the health of workers using this type of machinery, such as construction machinery or agricultural equipment.
as a member of the committee of inquiry into the measurement of emissions in the automotive sector (emis), i was able to learn more about this subject.
i therefore welcome the rapporteur's ambitious proposal, because engines for non-road mobile machinery make a significant contribution to the problem of nitrogen oxide (nox) emissions.
as the agreement reached seeks to strike a reasonable balance between health and environmental concerns and the competitiveness of the european manufacturing sector, i have decided to vote in favour.
‒ as is often reported, air quality levels in many urban areas in the union are such as to pose risks to people and the environment: the european environment agency estimates that 72,000 premature deaths are attributable to nitrogen dioxide (no2) and 403,000 to particulate matter, with an estimated annual cost of hundreds of billions of euros.
that is why i voted in favour of the regulation updating the emission standards and limits for non-road machinery such as bulldozers, agricultural and construction machinery and inland waterway vessels, which account for about 15% of european nitrogen oxide emissions and 5% of particulate matter emissions harmful to health.
in fact, i believe that, in the face of these concerns, the text adopted today strikes a reasonable balance between the objectives of protecting public health and the environment and the competitiveness of the european manufacturing sector, the jobs and skills it generates.
‒ i voted in favour of mrs gardini's report because i believe that it is absolutely essential to help ensure that the environment and health are protected through a fairer and more integrated single market.
this regulation aims to reduce emissions and red tape by setting stricter limits for polluting emissions from engines installed on non-road mobile machinery and by establishing harmonised standards for european markets in line with international standards.
these objectives are certainly positive for the protection of the environment and contribute to growth and an increase in the employment rate.
support for this proposal is a clear sign of the will to significantly reduce air pollution, improve the health of citizens and increase the competitiveness of businesses, through increased investment and legal certainty.
in this particularly complex situation, the integration of refugees is crucial: the european union has a long-term strategy for the protection of the environment, and the european union has a long-term strategy for the protection of the environment.
a comprehensive approach to migration focusing on the eu's external policies, such as cooperation with third countries, humanitarian and development aid, trade, investment and security and defence policies, is needed to address the root causes of migration in an integrated manner: conflict, poverty, lack of freedom, inequality, and extreme environmental conditions; the new thematic agenda to be provided for the eu must then ensure that internal policies, such as employment, education and health care, are accessible, harmonized and sufficiently flexible to turn the challenges posed by migratory pressures into a resource for the economic and cultural development of our societies.
the csr tool is an effective tool to inform consumers and to encourage businesses and governments to take greater account of the social and environmental implications of their actions.
‒ trade policies and market liberalisation have a significant impact on respect for human rights and on social and environmental sustainability.
trade policy, on the other hand, should be concerned with the protection of workers, respect for gender equality and environmental issues, without prejudicing growth factors.
‒ the european union has for decades been committed to promoting a mutual reinforcement of trade and human rights, focusing on a range of measures that do not exclude the incentives that the business community itself can offer in the field of promoting democracy, environmental standards and corporate social responsibility.
the forenza report, which i supported with my vote, provides a comprehensive analysis of the eu's commitments to negotiate and implement new measures to develop global responsibility, promote social justice, environmental sustainability and respect for human rights.
the text pays particular attention to trade policy, which is considered to be one of the main elements to promote the energy transition by promoting the emergence and development of renewable energies and the creation of environmentally friendly goods and technologies.
i believe that in order to tackle issues such as the whole range of social and environmental standards, human rights and the responsibility of companies in international trade today, we must start from a clear criticism of the existing model, which is creating inequalities and which, in the face of a process of relocation that creates enormous social damage in the west in a crisis of values and work, does not even contribute to real development in the poorest countries that provide labour to be exploited and an environment towards which no rules of respect and protection are implemented.
‒ as the european union is about to conclude ambitious trade agreements with a view to a global strengthening of the trading system on common and shared rules, it is desirable that non-monetisable components such as respect for human rights and environmental impact be taken into account in such agreements.
the european union is the world leader in the fight against climate change and in the promotion of human rights: the commission cannot abdicate this role in the negotiations.
‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of parliament's 2010 recommendations on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate responsibility because policies that reconcile economic, social and environmental objectives with a view to future sustainability are needed now more than ever.
a company is socially responsible whenever it has the approaches and tools to integrate environmental, ethical, human rights and consumer rights aspects into its management, with the dual aim of maximising the creation of shared value with the operators concerned and of preventing or mitigating the negative impacts of its activity.
‒ i voted in favour of the own-initiative report calling on the commission and the council to give greater consideration to objectives such as the protection of human rights, the promotion of high environmental standards and sustainable development in the context of the union's trade policy.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of parliament's 2010 recommendations on 'social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate responsibility' because i believe that the european union's trade policy can boost social progress, quality of life and can contribute to improving human rights protection.
i also believe that trade agreements have a strong impact on the protection of human rights and sustainable development and therefore recognize the need to ensure that these rules are respected by making them an integral part of the union's trade and economic relations.
in this period, good progress has been made in sustainable development and environmental protection, but much work remains to be done.
in my view, the european union should play a major role in achieving the objectives of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development.
i also believe that the commission's decision to carry out both pre- and post-trade impact assessments on sustainability and human rights should be made binding so that the union can have constant up-to-date data on the development of these two factors.
the eu has always been committed to sustainable development through its trade policy, as reaffirmed in the commission's 'trade for all' strategy.
the first, on strengthening compliance with social and environmental issues within the european market, reiterates the need for member states to promote binding measures to ensure that companies pay taxes at the place where they carry out economic activities and to promote good governance in the tax field and effective tax collection.
indeed, a company's tax policy is an integral part of corporate social responsibility and tax avoidance or tax haven strategies are incompatible with socially responsible behaviour and the sustainable development of the european market.
european trade policy in third countries and multilateral cooperation must take account of respect for human rights, the environment and democratic principles as key elements of corporate social responsibility.
‒ today, the european parliament adopted a resolution on the implementation of the 2010 recommendations to the commission on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate responsibility, thus taking a clear position on highly relevant aspects of the european union's trade policy.
the resolution urges the commission to step up its efforts to ensure that all trade agreements being negotiated or renewed between the eu and third countries give priority to sustainable development and the safeguarding of high environmental and social standards.
this means that when drawing up trade agreements with countries outside the union, the commission cannot ignore the inclusion of clauses on corporate social responsibility and provisions which promote gender equality and also make it possible to respect international environmental commitments.
‒ i voted in favour of the recommendations to promote social policies, human rights and respect for the environment by businesses.
this includes support for equal opportunities, social inclusion and a sustainable economy.
the report stresses the need for a more transparent, accountable and effective trade policy, which protects small and mediumsized enterprises and farmers in the first place, with agreements that bring tangible benefits to citizens and are in line with the sustainable development objectives that this planet needs.
‒ the spirit of this report, which aims to empower the council and the commission in the field of trade policy, is fully shared, with a view to greater attention to sensitive issues such as human rights, sustainable development, access to the commons and corporate social responsibility.
the eu should therefore use trade policy to promote the objective of setting high global standards on human and social rights, consumer protection and environmental issues.
‒ with this vote, parliament recognises that the link between trade and human rights, on the one hand, and social and environmental standards, on the other, has become an integral part of the european union's economic and trade relations.
it is also essential for us that the commission should work to ensure that all the parties concerned respect international standards on human rights, gender equality, labour law and respect for the environment.
i vote in favour of the initiative proposal to analyse the implementation of social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate responsibility in the field of trade and politics.
the report builds on an earlier report adopted by parliament on social and environmental standards, human rights in international trade and corporate social responsibility in international trade agreements.
it also makes a number of recommendations and proposals aimed at implementing the rules established for an overall improvement of the system, to preserve the environment and protect human rights.
– regarding the report on implementation of the 2010 recommendations of parliament on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate responsibility, i voted in favour, as the implementation of the recommendations will stimulate economic growth, enhance living quality, and improve the human rights standards in a long-term perspective.
‒ considering the great potential of trade policies and agreements as a tool for sustainable economic development, with particular reference to environmental protection, human rights and corporate social responsibility; assessed the risks of a globalisation that is poorly regulated and characterised by increasingly interconnected and opaque value chains; we shall vote in favour of the forenza report.
as recognised by the 'trade for all' strategy proposed by the european commission to launch a new trade policy, we believe in the deep link between international trade and respect for social and environmental standards.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of parliament's 2010 recommendations on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate responsibility.
the importance of trade and foreign investment as important tools for achieving economic growth, sustainable development, good governance and the protection of human rights.
the european union is committed to promoting and consistently respecting human rights and democracy in its relations with third countries in all its policies, including trade, through agreements that have a strong impact on both the protection of human rights and sustainable development.
therefore, its recommendations on human rights, corporate responsibility and social and environmental standards require implementation by the commission.
the european union, as reaffirmed in the 'trade for all' strategy, is committed to promoting sustainable development, human rights and good governance.
the need for trade agreements that protect human, social and environmental rights is also increasingly felt by citizens.
this report therefore calls for a more determined and ambitious commitment by the commission, negotiating trade agreements which provide for the responsibility of multinational companies and governments in this area and control mechanisms to ensure the application of social and environmental clauses.
economic recovery and growth in europe and globally are compatible, indeed synergistic, with the principles of social justice, environmental sustainability and respect for human rights.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on social, environmental, human rights and corporate responsibility standards today, which calls for the eu to commit to developing its trade policies in a way that is consistent with other european policies on social protection, sustainable development and fundamental rights.
i therefore believe it is important, as proposed in the report adopted today, to ensure greater coordination between development aid and trade policy, and to make the impact assessments of eu trade policy on human rights and sustainability binding in trade agreements, as key elements for promoting good governance and democratic principles also in third country partners.
to fully meet their responsibilities, companies should have a process for integrating social, environmental, ethical, human rights and consumer concerns into their business operations and corporate strategies, in close cooperation with stakeholders.
on the contrary, the report presented aims to ensure consistency between trade objectives and european policies, such as sustainable development, environmental protection, respect for human rights and social standards.
‒ a forward-looking trade strategy that is sustainable in the long term is of great importance to the european union.
it is a fact that the eu's trade weight is decreasing: the 23.7% of global trade volume represented by europe today will fall to 15% in 2050. the eu needs to become more integrated into the commercial value chains of goods and services produced or managed, focusing on innovation and sustainability to counter the trend of wealth and the centre of global trade shifting to the asia-pacific region.
the business community, which is also required to respect human rights, can also play an important role by providing incentives to promote human rights, democracy, environmental standards and corporate social responsibility.
trade agreements must also become effective instruments for promoting sustainable development, human rights, social, labour and environmental standards.
the ttip is an example of this, and many fear that it could weaken european standards in social, health or environmental policy.
but above all, the european commission, as negotiator, must develop models of trade and investment agreements where environmental sustainability and respect for human rights are essential conditions for the opening and closing of negotiations.
parliament wanted to emphasise and insist on respect for workers' rights and a ban on imports into the eu of goods produced through forced labour or without respect for environmental standards in the supply chain.
a new trade and investment strategy can also help to strengthen sustainable development, human rights, social labour standards and global sustainability at the global level.
‒ the 'trade for all' strategy, published last october by the european commission, finally puts the spotlight on transparency, sustainable development, the fight against poverty and corruption, demonstrating a new approach to trade, based on the promotion of common values and respect for human rights.
in addition, the strategy supports trade and investment agreements to strengthen sustainable development, promote human rights, social and labour standards.
the report stresses the need for a more transparent, accountable and effective trade policy, which protects small and mediumsized enterprises and farmers in the first place, with agreements that bring tangible benefits to citizens and are in line with the sustainable development objectives that this planet needs.
the proposal to shape trade and investment agreements in such a way that they become effective instruments for strengthening sustainable development, promoting human rights, social and labour standards and environmental sustainability at the global level is fully acceptable.
i therefore supported the report just voted on because it sets out a clear perspective of sustainability and progress, in particular by introducing for the first time the call for trade policies to be used effectively and intelligently to fight illegal practices such as corruption and tax evasion at international level.
it also called for the trade strategies and instruments to be updated on a regular basis so as to make an effective contribution to the promotion of sustainable development, human rights and the implementation of social and labour standards.
a responsible trade policy will ensure high standards of consumer and environmental protection and enable citizens to adapt to a constantly changing market.
trade and investment agreements must be shaped in such a way that they become effective tools for strengthening sustainable development, promoting human rights, social and labour standards and environmental sustainability at the global level.
‒ the eu's trade policy strategy, contained in the commission's 'trade for all' communication, represents an important step towards trade based on values and respect for human, social and environmental rights.
if trade agreements are to be effective tools for promoting the union's values, binding requirements on sustainable development, human rights, fair trade and the fight against corruption must be laid down and implemented, with mechanisms for sanctions against those who do not respect their commitments in relation to social and environmental rights.
as set out in the report, trade and investment agreements need to be shaped in such a way that they are effective tools for strengthening sustainable development, promoting human rights, social and labour standards and environmental sustainability at the global level.
we must now shape trade and investment agreements so that they become effective tools for strengthening sustainable development, promoting human rights, social and labour standards and environmental sustainability worldwide.
with this report, which i voted for, we in the five star movement have been calling loudly for these global supply chains to be clean, sustainable and respectful of workers' rights.
but we did not stop there and we pushed for the sustainability of trade to take into account the respect for the environment and animals, demanding greater control over compliance with the rules for the trade in protected species and farm animals.
to ensure that these commitments are maintained, we have included in the report that the new free trade agreements contain binding chapters on sustainable development and clear sanction mechanisms for those who do not respect their commitments.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
another very important issue is climate migrants, another category at risk of trafficking.
the online environment is now a new playing field where terrorist groups and new forms of organised crime challenge our freedoms and rights and put our economic and social relations at risk.
the european response to cybersecurity will also give a major boost to the establishment of the digital single market, which is a strategic objective of this commission and is based on the trust of citizens and consumers in an online environment, and security is an essential factor in this.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the many national authorities with coast guard functions are responsible for many tasks, in very different fields, such as safety of navigation, rescue at sea, border control, customs control, control of fishing activities and environmental protection.
the right direction is one in which the union helps europe and europeans to free up and activate energy; the 2017 work plan must make a difference in creating a favorable habitat for many and not just a few, even if excellent, those who simply ask to be free from bureaucratic burdens, taxes and prejudices to build a life.
in the energy sector, the energy union must be effectively achieved to ensure energy security and sustainable energy at prices that are acceptable to citizens and businesses.
europe has a vested interest in promoting democracy and stability in its neighbourhood, and to do so it must maintain strong relations with its partners, who can also be, as in this case, key players in its energy security.
azerbaijan is a strategic partner of the union in many respects, not least in the energy sector.
in this context, i support the adoption of the framework agreement in question, which aims to promote cooperation with azerbaijan in order to promote respect for the rule of law, human rights and democracy in a territory which is playing an increasingly important role, particularly in energy cooperation and trade with the european union.
azerbaijan is an important partner of the eu in the energy sector.
however, the importance of eu-azerbaijan relations goes beyond energy security and the relevance of this partnership must be considered in all aspects of the cooperation envisaged in the framework of the eastern partnership.
the importance of eu-azerbaijan relations is not limited to energy security or purely economic issues but the conclusion of the protocol will be a way for the european union to closely monitor the development of a democratic society and the rule of law which are for the union itself essential and indispensable principles on which to base and maintain international partnerships.
the eu-azerbaijan relations are also not limited to energy security but cover all aspects of cooperation envisaged in the framework of the eastern partnership, to which azerbaijan is a party.
the eu will continue to benefit from the energy partnership, but will also show its willingness to open its doors to the neighbouring countries.
the intensification of relations with the european union would not only allow for improved cooperation in the industrial and energy sectors, but also a special focus on ensuring the rule of law, respect for human rights and democracy in azerbaijan.
the importance of eu-azerbaijan relations is also linked to the energy sector and all aspects of cooperation envisaged in the framework of the eastern partnership, such as the promotion of the rule of law, human rights and democracy.
azerbaijan is an important partner of the eu in the energy sector.
however, the importance of eu-azerbaijan relations goes beyond energy security and the relevance of this partnership must be considered in all aspects of the cooperation envisaged in the framework of the eastern partnership.
this is a very important step as azerbaijan is an important partner to the eu in several key areas including regional security and energy.
in the context of the european neighbourhood policy and the eastern partnership, that protocol provides for the implementation of financial and technical rules that would allow the caucasian country to participate in some of the european programmes open to third countries, thus giving azerbaijan the opportunity to become more integrated into the european reality and allowing the strengthening of bilateral relations that have been stagnating since 2013. for the european union, azerbaijan is a strategic partner in the energy field, but the mere economic relationship cannot ignore the attention that europe pays to the aspect of human rights, the rule of law and democracy.
this is the context of the agreement with azerbaijan, which had already expressed its interest in participating in union programmes in october 2012. i would like to say that i agree with the commission's proposal, since the united kingdom plays a key role in the energy sector and the european union is also seeking to strengthen human rights through the protocol.
in the meantime, the eu-azerbaijan visa facilitation and readmission agreements entered into force on 1 september 2014. i would like to stress that azerbaijan is an important partner of the eu in the energy sector and that the eu must promote the restoration of peaceful relations between azerbaijan and armenia.
in addition, the azerbaijani state will be proposed to further develop relations with the eu in the field of culture, education, environment through intensification of contacts and people-to-people relations.
azerbaijan is one of the european union's most interesting regional partners in terms of the contribution it could make to the continent's energy security.
it is therefore very important to continue cooperation within the framework of the strategic energy partnership with the eu and ensuring its participation in eu programmes can be a useful tool.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
there are also safety and notification requirements for operators of essential services in sectors such as energy, transport, health, banking and the supply of drinking water.
i am thinking in particular of banks, stock exchanges, energy generation, transmission and distribution, transport (air, rail and sea), health, internet services and public administrations.
the measures envisaged aim to ensure a safer online environment that allows for the full development of e-commerce and the sharing economy.
‒ the energy efficiency label for household appliances, which has been in place for at least 20 years, aims to inform consumers about the key product characteristics, energy efficiency and absolute consumption.
in the light of the recent car emissions scandals, restoring public confidence is of paramount importance.
‒ the recent cop 21 in paris strongly demonstrated the need to put environmental policies at the centre of global action.
in this context, attention to energy efficiency labelling legislation is crucial to facilitate understanding of the impact of appliances on the ecosystem.
after years of confusion due to the introduction of unclear labelling systems, the new proposal introduces a simple and updated system with a scale of classes a to g. the requirements are expected to be in place for about 10 years, and any subsequent re-labelling will only be initiated when 25% of products sold on the eu market fall into class a, or when 50% of products fall into classes a and b. the labels should contain information on the energy efficiency class of the product model and the absolute energy consumption in kwh, expressed per year or per relevant time period.
‒ the report analysing energy efficiency labelling is well thought out and worthy of support, so i voted in favour of it.
‒ with today's vote, the european parliament has finally approved the updated energy labelling legislation for household appliances, a small but important tool to support our efforts to achieve greater energy efficiency and better use of resources.
as a shadow rapporteur on the committee on the environment, i have followed the legislative process on this matter with great conviction from the outset and i am proud to say that the text voted on today, which is much more timely and balanced than the commission's initial proposal, is largely the result of the work i have carried out in recent months in the committee on the environment and subsequently in the committee on industry.
the new regulation, and the simplification work it provides for, by returning to a single a-g scale for all product groups and providing for clear and predictable mechanisms for the future updating of labels, will restore the energy label to its two main functions: to effectively guide consumers towards the choice of products that can guarantee the greatest energy savings and to encourage industry to produce ever more innovative and efficient products, to the mutual benefit of the environment and our bills.
‒ i voted in favour of mr tamburrano's legislative report because it perfectly balances the needs of all the players in the sector and at the same time makes the labelling of energy efficiency clearer.
the report clearly aims to strengthen the confidence of european citizens through greater transparency, by automatically removing the pluses from labels (and therefore the a+, a++ and a+++ classes) and pushing towards a digitised energy label 2.0. a very solid foundation has been laid to revive the success of energy labelling which has allowed the introduction of increasingly efficient models in a few years, thus saving enormous amounts of energy, emissions and money.
the revision of the energy labelling directive is one of the most important areas of regulatory intervention for achieving the binding target of a 27% improvement in energy efficiency by 2030. the presence of increasingly energy-efficient products on the market is an indication of the success of the legislation, but it also means that its effectiveness is reaching its limits.
i have agreed with the commission's proposal for updating the label and rescaling the energy efficiency classes, which will be an incentive for technological innovation, while the creation of a database of regulated products will be useful both to the regulatory authorities, who will thus have much faster access to information, and to those bodies which will later need updated data for regulatory review.
‒ the energy efficiency label for household appliances is intended to inform consumers about energy efficiency, absolute consumption and other key product characteristics.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the 'proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for energy efficiency labelling' because i believe that labelling can help citizens to better understand the impact of products on the environment and on their lives and can facilitate access to information by strengthening their capacity to follow market developments in real time.
‒ an energy labelling system is already in place.
there are too many products in the higher energy class and i think this leads to consumers giving little weight to energy labelling.
‒ with this report, the european union is committed to building an energy union based on a forward-looking policy, removing anything that confuses and misleads citizens when they buy.
among the most important points of the regulation are that the paper label will be supplemented by a virtual one in a public database, additional information on each model will be accessible through a qr code, the evaluation standards will be public and transparent and a refund will be provided to buyers in the event of non-compliance of the energy label.
the m5s has succeeded in bringing forward a very innovative concept, it is a very important moment, with the new regulation we will start to look at energy efficiency in qualitative terms, emphasising where, when and how energy will be consumed.
all of this allows us to project ourselves towards a new, more sustainable energy model, through informed consumer choice and greater awareness by society as a whole.
‒ the energy label has become familiar to citizens and consumers.
the identity card that enables us, in a quick and immediate way, to be aware and informed and to choose to contribute to energy saving, to reducing emissions, to protecting the environment and to reducing europe's dependence on energy sources.
the revision of the directive and further simplification of the energy classes has therefore become an essential step to avoid the risk of losing the positive effect.
‒ a major report, signed by m5s, which deeply innovates the regulatory framework for the energy efficiency labelling system, giving birth to the new 'label 2.0'.
the energy efficiency label for household appliances has been around for some 20 years and has undoubtedly been a great mechanism to enable consumers to choose products that consume less energy and save money, as well as to encourage businesses to develop innovative solutions and invest in the design of more efficient products.
‒ energy labelling has played a key role in improving product quality and efficiency, with clear positive effects on the environment and consumers.
‒ i thought it appropriate to vote in favour of this report because i believe that energy labelling has major environmental benefits, as it allows consumers to compare the energy efficiency of products.
however, the energy labelling system currently in force has several areas of shadow and has lost some of its relevance.
there is an over-representation of products in the higher energy efficiency classes on the market, which clearly confuses consumers.
‒ i am voting in favour of the report as i support the need to update energy efficiency labelling to take account of technological and market developments.
‒ this report plays an important part in improving existing labelling on products in terms of energy use.
this is an important aspect in order to increase energy efficiency in the eu by giving producers more incentives to decrease the energy usage of their products as it will be clearer to the consumer how much energy a product is using.
using the consumer’s market and giving the consumers all the necessary information in regard to energy usage and then letting the private sector adapt to this market is, i believe, the most effective way to promote energy efficiency in consumer goods and plays an important part for europe to achieve its emission goals.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for energy efficiency labelling and repealing directive 2010/30/eu, because i believe that energy efficiency labelling is a tool that is consistent with the eu's efforts to combat climate change and pollution, and at the same time very useful for our citizens and consumers, who can base their purchasing choices on the energy profile of the product.
the european institutions are working to improve energy efficiency labelling, with the aim of regaining the trust of citizens, also following some scandals.
the creation of labels, which allow electronic products to be classified according to their environmental impact and life cycle, has enabled european citizens to make informed and responsible choices.
in order to improve this system and thus to improve its environmental impact, an evaluation of the labelling framework is proposed to highlight its shortcomings and to increase energy savings.
looking towards a more sustainable future, i am voting in favour of the proposal to re-evaluate the energy efficiency labelling framework.
‒ favourable to the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for energy efficiency labelling and repealing directive 2010/30/eu.
the commission proposal aims to establish a regulation as a legal instrument for energy labelling which, if properly implemented, can have a positive impact on the environment, consumers, businesses and workers, ensuring greater transparency for consumers in relation to energy-related products on the union market.
energy labelling helps citizens to better understand the environmental impact of products by allowing consumers to compare the energy efficiency of products and make cost-effective purchasing decisions.
‒ energy efficiency labelling encourages companies to improve their products and access to information by offering consumers better product efficiency.
this enables consumers to make informed decisions and to choose products that reduce costs and reduce environmental impact.
‒ the revision of labelling has become necessary especially after the recent cases concerning car emissions; the label is a necessary tool for consumers to better understand the environmental impact of a product.
‒ the energy efficiency label for household appliances has been in existence for some 20 years to enable consumers to choose products that consume less energy and save money, and to encourage businesses to develop innovative solutions and invest in the design of more efficient products.
i have worked on the opinion of the environment committee on this and asked for information on actual energy consumption, absolute energy consumption and other information on environmental impact such as durability, repairability and recyclability of products.
i also believe that the timing of the rescaling should be decided on the basis of technological progress and documented by the overpopulation of the upper classes and that the work plan of this regulation on energy efficiency labelling should be coordinated with the work plan of the directive on ecological compatibility.
‒ technology has made and is making rapid progress in energy saving in recent years.
i therefore voted in favour of this new regulation which repeals the old 2010 directive and modernises the legislation to take account of the new standards produced by the energy industry today.
energy efficiency labelling is a key component for the consumer, who can make an environmentally conscious choice through this tool.
the new single a-g labelling will not only help consumers to make savings choices but will also encourage the industries themselves to produce products that are increasingly efficient, appealing and at the same time environmentally sustainable.
‒ energy labelling has a positive impact on the environment by providing consumers with accurate, relevant and comparable information on the energy efficiency and consumption of energy-related products wherever they are in the union, enabling them to make informed, cost-efficient and environmentally sound purchasing decisions, with benefits for both the environment and their pockets.
the proposal maintains the objectives and principles of the existing energy labelling directive, but clarifies, strengthens and extends its scope as follows, updating the label and allowing for 'upgrading' energy efficiency classes: improving enforcement; establishing a database of products covered by energy labelling legislation; clarifying the obligations of the various parties, improving the link between energy labelling and measurement standards.
‒ the text on energy efficiency labelling repeals the current directive in this area, with the aim of simplifying the rules.
more specifically, the report provides for the simplification of energy classes, thus returning to the old classification from a to g, eliminating classes a+, a++ and a+++.
the new european labelling will contain information on the energy efficiency class of the product model and the energy consumption in kwh, so that consumers are better informed about the product they intend to buy.
the added value of the new labelling is right there: to make it easier for consumers to find energy-efficient products.
‒ energy labelling is a useful tool for environmental protection, as it allows consumers to compare the energy efficiency of products and to make more informed purchasing decisions.
the new regulation aims to introduce a mechanism for the reformulation of energy efficiency classes and also provides for both the creation of a product database and the definition of the obligations that economic operators will have to comply with.
‒ i voted in favour of the new energy labelling regulation, which introduces a new energy class scale for measuring the efficiency of household appliances.
technological progress has made it possible in recent years to manufacture increasingly efficient products and has led to the need to introduce new energy efficiency classes compared to the classification introduced by the previous legislation.
the approved text reflects this progress by simplifying the labelling system, returning to the old a to g classification and eliminating the a+, a++ and a+++ classes that have been added over time because most devices on the market complied with the requirements of class a as established in 2010. while industry needs to move in line with technological progress towards greener production, the text also provides for a gradual introduction of new 'scale-up' labels depending on existing product groups, to enable industry to adapt to the new labelling system, a key element of the eu's strategy to achieve energy efficiency targets.
‒ we voted in favour of the report, which i drafted, which is a major innovation in the regulatory framework for the energy efficiency labelling system, giving birth to the new 'label 2.0'.
we recognise that the european energy efficiency labels for energy-using equipment have been a real success story for the eu for 20 years now.
technological progress and the ability of many companies to innovate have necessitated a revision of energy labelling which was proving unclear to both consumers and businesses.
for this reason, i strongly advocated the need for a rescaling from a to g. it is essential that industry keeps pace with technological progress by setting stricter requirements and that consumers can also make informed choices to save energy (including through the use of smart applications) and at the same time help protect the environment.
energy efficiency labels for energy-consuming appliances such as refrigerators and washing machines have been in place in the eu for 20 years.
together with ecodesign, they will save energy, estimated by the european commission at 175 mega tons of oil by 2020: this is roughly the amount of energy consumed in one year by italy.
the european commission estimates that 10-25% of energy labels now do not reflect the actual characteristics of equipment.
in an attempt to address these challenges and find sustainable solutions, the commission proposes that a border and coast guard be established to ensure adequate control of external borders, strengthen security, and at the same time preserve the freedom of movement of european citizens.
‒ favourable to the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for energy efficiency labelling and repealing directive 2010/30/eu.
‒ there are currently over 300 national authorities (collaborating through 70 different structures) within the european union performing coast guard functions and responsible for activities such as maritime security, rescue at sea, customs and border controls, as well as environmental protection.
the european maritime safety agency is a useful tool because it aims to ensure maritime safety and prevent environmental damage by sharing information obtained from the merging and analysis of data available in ship reporting systems.
the main function of this agency will be to ensure a high level of maritime safety and security and to prevent pollution from ships.
‒ the european maritime safety agency was set up in 2003 after two major environmental disasters, namely the erika (1999) and prestige (2002) oil tanker disasters.
the agency contributes to the enforcement of european maritime regulations, provides assistance for operations against marine pollution, monitors and tracks maritime traffic and supports national administrations through technical assistance.
it also works to prevent pollution and to respond to pollution caused by ships or by gas and hydrocarbon extraction installations.
we must bear in mind that the mediterranean is considered to be a sea at very high risk of pollution by hydrocarbons.
collisions, accidents, or even acts of terrorism account for only 20 percent of marine oil pollution.
in the current migration environment, this cooperation is essential.
‒ national authorities performing coast guard functions are responsible for a number of tasks in areas as diverse as navigation safety, maritime security, rescue at sea, border control, customs controls, environmental protection and general law enforcement.
‒ the many national control authorities have different tasks, such as safety of navigation, rescue at sea, border control, customs control, control of fishing activities and environmental protection.
‒ the revision of the multiannual financial framework is a positive action if it serves to ensure the achievement of the european climate and energy policy objectives for 2020 and 2050 set out in europe 2020 and cop21 in paris, respectively.
the transformation of the european economy into a low-carbon economy will be one of the main challenges facing the union in the coming years, and it will have to be met if it is to ensure a healthy and environmentally sustainable future for its citizens.
‒ providing europe with adequate and ambitious budgetary resources is essential to ensure the credibility and sustainability of the european project: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life of the citizens of the union, and has also set up a number of initiatives to promote the development of the european social model.
the european commission has, through the juncker plan and other strategies, worked to increase investment, but on the other hand it is necessary to reduce waste and allocate resources more efficiently and effectively if the eu is to achieve the ambitious policy objectives it has set itself.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the text stresses the need to strengthen the links between cohesion policy, which remains the eu's main instrument for investment in the real economy, and other funding programmes and initiatives such as the digital single market, the energy and innovation union and rural development.
by involving more actors in the process to explore new synergies, assisting member states, regions and cities in developing smart strategies, promoting transnational cooperation between regions, simplifying procedures as much as possible, establishing platforms on so-called smart specialisations (such as the three already established on energy efficiency, industrial modernisation and food).
this requires more systematic and effective coordination of all measures, maximising energy and resources, with a renewed role for regions and member states to identify and generate opportunities.
in this sense, investments in research, ict, renewable energy and smes are key and can provide a driving force for cooperation between member states, thus improving european competitiveness.
in fact, cohesion policy should be aligned with the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and build on its three funds, such as the european regional development fund (erdf), the european social fund (esf) and the cohesion fund (cf).
i also believe that synergies with other european policies in favour of competitiveness should be strengthened, particularly in the field of research and development, information and communication technologies, renewable energy and small and mediumsized enterprises.
i believe that cohesion policy must be fully aligned with the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
i would also like to stress the opportunity for these funds to be used to improve, by increasing jobs and paying attention to the implementation of green energy, synergies with other european policies in favour of competitiveness, particularly in the field of research and development and small and mediumsized enterprises.
i therefore voted in favour of this resolution because it reiterates the need to strengthen the links between cohesion policy and other eu innovation policies, funding programmes and initiatives (including horizon 2020, the digital single market, rural development and the energy union).
with this report we have drawn attention to the need to strengthen the results orientation of cohesion policies and to the need to increase cooperation between the various competitiveness policies of the union, especially in the areas of research and development, smes, renewable energy and ict.
i voted against the draft programme, however, because i do not think that it has produced any really effective solutions in key areas such as sustainable growth, the circular economy, the migration crisis and the world of work.
i am talking about the social dimension, about resilience to climate change, about providing shared and effective responses to common challenges such as the refugee crisis and the security problem, but also about returning to a europe that is growing, competitive, capable of creating jobs and attracting investment.
‒ i have decided not to support the commission's draft work programme for 2017 with my vote, as i believe that it does not contain any really effective solutions in key areas such as sustainable growth, the circular economy, employment and the migration crisis.
in this respect, i am convinced that the union must try to promote sustainable growth and employment in order to improve our model of social market economy and implement structural reforms to modernise member states' economies and thus generate prosperity in the countries.
the priorities also include focusing on climate change, energy security, strengthening the eu budget and financial instruments, including for the effective management of migrants and refugees.
‒ the commission's 2017 work programme does not contain proposals and solutions that can effectively address the challenges facing the eu in key areas such as sustainable growth, circular economy, employment and the migration crisis.
these very important priorities include: working on the recovery and the long-term competitiveness of the european economy; to ensure a consistent response to the increased inflow of refugees; and ensuring energy security.
it is for this reason that i have supported the joint text presented on the european commission's work programme for 2017. the text we have approved lists some significant priorities in the areas of competitiveness, environmental sustainability, the relaunch of social europe, on which parliament has shown unity by preparing a compromise text containing a wide range of policy proposals, which we now hope the european commission will bring together in the same spirit of unity and concreteness.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
it is intended to serve several purposes: to provide for the strengthening of economic recovery and competitiveness; responding to climate change and ensuring energy security; ensure a coherent response to the increase in the influx of refugees; respond to citizens' security concerns; implement an ambitious external action agenda: the european union is committed to a strong and stable neighbourhood and a global system; fair fiscal policies for adequate resources; the eu's budget and financial instruments, the economic and monetary situation, and fundamental rights and democracy.
as mentioned in resolutions, economic recovery, ensuring energy security, tackling the refugee crisis and addressing the security concerns of eu citizens are urgent and essential and will for sure be one of the primary focuses for the commission in 2017.
in writing.
the text focuses on a number of key pillars, which are essential for europe to achieve in the short term in order to strengthen economic recovery and competitiveness in the long term, to solve the employment problem as well as the migration issue and to guarantee energy security.
the need for a change of course is clear, one which can respond to citizens' demands for better living and working conditions and enable economic recovery, the effective management of migration flows, environmental protection and the eu's international role to be clarified.
‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the preparation of the commission's work programme for 2017. i reiterate that the priorities for the s&d group must be: improving the living and working conditions of european citizens; strengthening economic recovery and creating new jobs; combating climate change; providing an effective response to the flow of refugees; improving citizens' security; developing a concrete and ambitious foreign policy; strengthening the eu budget and financial instruments; strengthening fundamental rights and democracy.
in the interests of the environment, marine ecosystems and biodiversity, i voted in favour of the resolution, hoping that political dialogue with the japanese government will finally put an end to such inhuman and reckless acts.
the current situation is not only a clear violation of international law, but also a serious threat to marine ecosystems and biodiversity.
i believe that the catches are therefore in breach of iwc standards and international law and undermine the protection of biodiversity and marine ecosystems.
i am very disappointed that this is the way in which the environment and animal biodiversity are being harmed.
in fact, existing trade policies should serve to improve animal welfare and respect and environmental protection, including the protection of marine mammals.
‒ i supported the joint motion for a resolution on japan's decision to resume whaling during the 2015-2016 season, tabled by my colleague renata briano, because i believe that japan's decision to resume its whaling programme is a wrong and highly negative decision, which puts biodiversity and animal health at risk.
in fact, existing trade policies should serve to improve animal welfare and respect and environmental protection, including the protection of marine mammals.
however, given the autocratic nature of the belarusian government, the continuing violations of human rights and the limited freedom of the press, it is clear that no amendment of such agreements can be approved, since they must be justified by economic, social and environmental considerations.
it will not be possible to secure eib investments in the country until significant progress has been made in economic, social, environmental and political terms and in particular with regard to democracy in belarus.
‒ i voted against the objection on the granting of a union guarantee to the european investment bank in the event of losses to belarus because i consider that the objection is not sustainable, while i abstained on the other measure with the same wording because i consider that the issue requires further study.
‒ i voted against this objection on the determination of the minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities because i consider that the objection is not sustainable.
environment, social challenges, respect for human rights, raising safety standards, the rule of law, international trade rules, intellectual property: these are all areas where only china's active involvement can bring about tangible results.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the growing phenomena of corruption, the increasingly close links between multinational companies and tax advisory firms aimed at evading or avoiding taxes; the unwarranted activity of certain companies which, by their unlawful behaviour, endanger the health of consumers or cause incalculable damage to the environment: these are just a few examples of the harmful phenomena which society must combat with all the tools at its disposal.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express my support for this objection, which calls, among other things, for the commission to introduce restrictions on the sale of energy drinks to children and adolescents.
in the case of long-term regular use, if not abuse, in addition to the high risk of obesity due to the high concentration of sugars in energy drinks.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
it is also essential to continue investing in the promotion of the rule of law, democracy and the capacity to respond to other challenges, such as those posed by climate change, with a view to an effective multilateral system, within which the union can and must be at the forefront.
the european commitment stems from the values and convictions that are duly confirmed in the priorities identified in the report, such as peace and security, the fight against terrorism, disarmament, migration flows, human rights, democracy and the rule of law, development and climate change.
the eu's security environment is marked by growing instability and the so-called secular and peacekeeping force provided for in articles 43, 46 and 47 of the un charter has never found its desired application.
the recommendations are fully acceptable as they concern the engagement on issues related to peace and security, the fight against terrorism, migration, human rights, the rule of law, development, climate change and reform of the un system.
finally, the call for the implementation of the sustainable development goals set out in agenda 2030 is fully supported.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the eu security environment is increasingly unstable and precarious due to a wide range of challenges, including violent conflict, terrorism, organised crime, unprecedented migration flows and climate change, which cannot be addressed at national level and require regional and global responses.
‒ the increasing complexity of the global security environment requires a careful review of the un model of multilateralism.
finally, i support closer cooperation between the un and the eu to strengthen policy coherence for development within the un, in order to complement the commitment to the implementation of the sustainable development goals of the 2030 agenda.
in an increasingly unstable and precarious security environment and convinced that a multilateral system based on universal rules and values to be respected is the most appropriate instrument for dealing with global crises and challenges, i voted in favour of this recommendation.
‒ i voted in favour of this 71st session because i believe it is important to ensure cooperation between the eu and the un in the definition of new security strategies, in peacekeeping and in crisis management, in order to continue to work at multilateral level to find solutions to conflicts and sustainable development.
europe must continue to assert its voice as a global democratic actor and i therefore consider the issues highlighted in our text to be very important, among which i would particularly highlight: the role of women in peace processes and the need for adequate representation in decision-making processes, children's rights, with particular reference to the issue of migrant children, attention to the emerging issue of climate refugees, support for increasingly effective eu coordination within multilateral institutions.
finally, i share the need for cooperation between the un and the eu in taking strong action to combat climate change by implementing the cop21 agreement.
this proposal covers a number of areas, all of which are highly sensitive at international level, such as the fight against terrorism, the question of migration and climate change.
the united nations must act in this direction in order to ensure a climate of peace and security.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the association of the european economic community and the european atomic energy community with the european union.
‒ studies show that 68% of adolescents and 18% of children regularly consume energy drinks, mainly in the form of cans.
my vote in favour of the objection tabled today in parliament is motivated by the belief that it may be harmful to allow the presence of nutritional claims on sugar-sweetened beverages and energy drinks containing caffeine which promote their ability to increase attention or concentration.
i am convinced that the use of nutrition labels in this case may encourage excessive consumption of energy drinks, which is why i strongly supported the motion for a resolution by the envi committee.
‒ the object of the objection is to urge the commission to withdraw the draft regulation submitted and to consider the possibility of introducing restrictions on the sale of energy drinks to children and adolescents.
‒ with this objection, it intends to urge the commission to withdraw the draft regulation submitted and to consider the possibility of introducing restrictions on the sale of energy drinks to children and adolescents.
68 percent of teenagers and 18 percent of children regularly consume energy drinks, and as many as 25 percent of teenagers who do drink energy drinks drink three or more cans in a row.
from an educational point of view, given the widespread use of energy drinks high in sugar among adolescents, such health claims would increase the consumption of these drinks by children and adolescents, who should not be exposed to sugar consumption above a certain threshold.
‒ the object of the objection is to urge the commission to withdraw the draft regulation submitted and to consider the possibility of introducing restrictions on the sale of energy drinks to children and adolescents.
we already know that 68 percent of teenagers and 18 percent of children regularly consume energy drinks, and even 25 percent of teenagers who do consume energy drinks drink three or more cans in a row.
the resolution vetoes the commission's proposal to allow nutrition labelling on sugar-containing drinks and caffeinated energy drinks to promote and emphasise the ability to increase attention or concentration.
in fact, adolescents are the largest group of energy drink consumers.
it is estimated that 68 percent of teenagers and 18 percent of children regularly consume energy drinks.
it's not just the caffeine, energy drinks also have a lot of sugar.
a 250 ml can of energy drink may contain up to 27 grams of sugar and 80 milligrams of caffeine; these drinks have been associated with headaches, sleep disturbances and behavioural problems in children and adolescents who use them regularly.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european energy sector has changed.
we have moved from centralised energy production to more flexible models, organised around decentralised production, the integration of renewable technologies, with the aim of overcoming national protectionism which risks undermining the construction of the european energy union.
today the aim is to update the market rules: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not left to the discretion of the member states.
the first: an approach that integrates renewable generation at all stages of the market production, networking, storage, distribution, opening up new markets for small producers.
a concrete commitment, therefore, towards the energy transition towards a decarbonised model of development, in line with the objectives of the framework resolution on the energy union of last december.
secondly: the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in electricity and the common organization of the market in natural gas is a good example of the need to develop a common approach to the problem of energy supply and demand.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the safety of the european energy market, including the introduction of a new energy market in the european union.
renewable energy support schemes, have played an important role, but they need to be reviewed on the basis of the degree of maturity of the respective renewable technologies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we agree that the energy market must be radically redesigned to speed up the energy transition, decentralise production and help achieve the union's climate and energy objectives.
to this end, the current structure of a few large conventional plants needs to be transformed to increase local renewable production, giving more space and voice to smaller and less organised producers, such as prosumers and cooperatives, and new services associated with them.
at the same time, they would like to eliminate subsidies for renewables, which we would also accept if the costs of fossil and nuclear energy were always considered in terms of the negative externalities on health, ecosystems and climate: then we can really talk about free trade!
we do not really agree on the incineration of waste, we have doubts about some forms of heating and biogas, but we will see how the amendments are received in the plenary during the vote.
unfortunately, in 20 years of european policies in favour of liberalising markets, energy, water and transport, we have in fact seen poor accessibility, a continuous increase in fares for citizens and businesses, increased response times, less efficiency in the service and poor transparency of the bill.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the international scene shows that energy security contributes to consolidating the political independence of the member states.
this scenario cannot be separated from the one concerning the efficient use of energy and the reduction of co2 emissions, the energy resilience of individual countries... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the international scene shows that energy security contributes to consolidating the political independence of the member states.
this scenario cannot be separated from the scenario of efficient energy use and reduction of co2 emissions, energy resilience of individual countries and the fight against energy poverty.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the energy transition.
i agree with the rapporteurs: the commission's proposal is urgent, binding, but above all geopolitical, if we consider that energy markets still have a strong regionalist character, based on the principle of national responsibility for the energy mix.
this different management of sovereignty is an important part of the challenges facing europe in the energy sector which ultimately needs to...
in writing.
the heating and cooling of buildings, is a matter of primary importance for the eu, since it accounts for 50% of total energy consumption in europe and some of this is misused or wasted.
reducing waste, producing heat from cogeneration and insulating buildings could all bring enormous benefits to the eu and its citizens, as well as helping to meet europe's commitments at cop21 in paris.
on the one hand, consumers would be able to save on the cost of their energy bills, and on the other, europe could reduce its energy dependence on exporting countries.
it is also necessary to promote the use of coating technologies and materials, in particular in the renovation of old or energy-poor buildings, both for public and private buildings.
finally, it is important to recall the benefits that a significant reduction in energy consumption for heating and cooling could bring to the environment, allowing citizens to live in healthier, cleaner and safer environmental contexts.
secondly, the bureaucratic and regulatory environment is a veritable jungle which makes it virtually impossible to invest.
an integrated regional and european policy process, focusing on specific sectors such as manufacturing, new technologies, sustainable construction, green vehicles and smart grids.
we must, while respecting the territorial specificities of each region, promote the principles of the circular economy package, with the aim of sustainable economic development and paying particular attention to the promotion of green jobs.
the supply of energy at low cost is essential: the commission has already proposed a number of measures to help the european industry to reduce its energy consumption.
in line with the europe 2020 european objectives on sustainable development, environment and energy, the design and implementation of macro-regional projects should be encouraged, including through this strategy.
the report also stresses that the majority of the major infrastructures envisaged in the ten-t plan, these axes, will then have to be connected to widespread, efficient and sustainable local infrastructures.
i would like to stress that, thanks to the investments through the interreg programmes, we are indeed now seeing a real change for the better in crossborder cooperation from research to transport and environmental protection.
of course, this tool can be further optimized and needs to be optimized in a constantly changing environment.
in particular, i agree with your recommendations to encourage the joint establishment of strategies for integrated and sustainable territorial development in border areas.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, environmental issues are cross-disciplinary: this is the thinking behind the envi opinion.
just think about the relationships between biodiversity, tourism, agriculture, forestry and livestock farming, between pollution, industry, transport, energy and the circular economy.
in the macro-region, more attention needs to be paid to mountain areas, which are often neglected compared to urban areas, reconciling environment and economic and social development in the alpine air, an area rich in natural resources, culture and traditions.
the fight against climate change is having a positive impact on the alpine regions because today we are sadly witnessing the shrinking of glaciers and torrential rains that cause landslides and floods.
i congratulate mrs bresso on her work and on her taking up many of the issues on which we voted by a large majority in the committee on the environment.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
in these amendments we have reiterated the need to ensure public access to documents relating to publicly funded works, we have asked that public health and the environment be given priority as grounds for granting access to documents, and we have also asked that no new projects relating to transport infrastructure be initiated or financed as long as existing infrastructure is not fully exploited.
the committee on transport also called for no funding for infrastructure which poses an avoidable and disproportionate risk to the environment, natural resources or public health.
in the committee on transport we were calling for public consultations to be promoted in order to respect the will of the citizens and not have to create new unnecessary large-scale projects that irreparably damage health and the environment and that feed corruption and mafia infiltration.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased to speak because the report on the alpine strategy - and i thank the rapporteur, mrs bresso - is a report which is attentive to two major issues: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and it is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
it is an area which, if we do not pay due attention to the active infrastructure that produces wealth, well-being and development, to the environment, to everything we are introducing, north and south of the alps, those same infrastructures, when they cross that fragile region, become passive structures.
i therefore urge you to vote in favour of the amendments to the bresso report which support the financing of transparent projects, the protection of public water sources, which must remain public, and against the absurdity and waste of the turin-lyon.
provide young people with education to fulfil their potential and create job opportunities: this is what is needed to promote sustainable development.
for the g20 as a whole, it was an opportunity to demonstrate, after years of crisis, that we can take more aggressive policy decisions to ensure long-term sustainable growth and restore confidence.
our strategy has been to show that our european triangle - investment, structural reforms, responsible public finances - is working, but we must continue along this path to ensure change is sustainable and positive in the long term.
i will focus on issues which i find are of particular relevance from the point of view of the council, including migration, the global economy, trade, taxation and climate.
finally, the g20 summit reaffirmed the commitment of its members to sustainable development and strong and effective action to tackle climate change.
the g20 leaders are committed to countries’ ratifying and implementing in a timely fashion all aspects of the paris climate agreement, including financial assistance for developing countries.
firstly, there is support for the fight against climate change.
the green finance initiative and the proposal to channel a significant share of the funds currently allocated to fossil fuels towards clean energy solutions should also be considered in this context.
to have sustainable growth, we need to have strict environmental standards to meet.
on the paris agreement, which was also mentioned several times, i can assure you that we as a presidency are currently trying to agree on a clear timetable that will allow the ratification of the paris agreement on behalf of the european union so as to ensure the participation of the eu at the upcoming cop 22 marrakesh meeting on global climate change.
it just so happens that these are the models for which there are the strongest suspicions of illegal devices, in one case devices that seem to turn off after twenty-two minutes, exactly two minutes after the end of the type approval test cycle and, in the other, a model that in the hot test has shown emissions of nitrogen oxides three times the norm.
as early as 2007, but officially since 2011, it was known that cars on the road had 7-8 times higher emissions than those tested in the laboratory during the homologation process.
it is a serious fraud against users and a blow to the air quality of our cities, a fraud all the more serious because the technologies to reduce nox emissions have been around for a long time.
that is why it is essential to move forward with real-world emissions controls on the road, to change the type approval rules profoundly, to go beyond controls which are only entrusted to individual national states and to have clearer and stricter rules for consumer protection.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have repeatedly stressed the leading role of the european union in the fight against environmental pollution: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the eu's emissions trading system is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies.
this is an important text that underlines the need to step up efforts to create smart, sustainable and inclusive economic growth.
if we want the european union to become a smart, sustainable and inclusive economy, we must involve the regions and local authorities, supporting innovation that starts from the territories and gives strength to all those local and regional entities that produce wealth and jobs despite the crisis and on whose prosperity a significant part of national and european gross domestic product depends, today and tomorrow.
in particular, national or regional innovation strategies for smart specialisation (ris3) are needed to foster a more efficient use of the european structural and investment funds and to support the transition to a smart and sustainable economy.
‒ in response to the economic crisis and in an effort to promote smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, strengthening technological development and innovation has become one of the investment priorities for the european union.
‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on cohesion policy and research and innovation strategies for smart specialisation (ris3) because i firmly believe that in these times of economic, financial and social crisis the eu must step up its efforts to create smart, sustainable but above all inclusive economic growth.
the following motion for a resolution aims at achieving sustainable growth based on knowledge, harmonious development and job creation, not only in well-developed areas but also in transition regions and less developed, rural and island regions.
– regarding the report on cohesion policy and research and innovation strategies for smart specialisation, i voted in favour, as the report highlights the need to develop sustainable and inclusive economic growth.
smart specialisation strategies aim to achieve sustainable, knowledge-based growth and quality jobs across the union, with a particular focus on those regions in transition or less developed.
the mihaylova report, which i supported with my vote, effectively underlines the role of the cte in cohesion policy, while stressing its limited funding which does not seem to be commensurate with the high added value it is able to bring in areas such as transport, the environment, health and innovation.
territorial cooperation is the answer to traditional challenges such as research, innovation, adaptation to climate change and the promotion of sustainable mobility and transport, but also to new challenges such as the management of migration flows and the low mobility of young people.
the report clearly highlights the added value generated by initiatives under territorial cooperation, especially those supporting research and innovation, as well as strengthening the competitiveness of smes and tackling environmental challenges.
the european added value of european territorial cooperation has been demonstrated in many areas: connectivity, mobility and regional access to services; knowledge and innovation transfer; environmental challenge management and disaster response; consolidation of cross-border network structures and creation of new partnerships.
‒ cooperation between member states and the commission is essential for the proper conduct of the investigation into possible maladministration, both at european and national level, in the application of the legislation currently in force on passenger car emissions.
‒ following the scandals that followed revelations of rigged devices used to reduce pollutant emissions during official car tests, the european parliament decided last december to set up a committee of inquiry.
‒ in today's vote i voted in favour of the interim report on the work done so far by the committee of inquiry set up by the european parliament in the wake of the volkswagen scandal over infringements of eu rules on car emissions measurements.
the european union is a world leader in the fight against environmental pollution.
just think of the driving role it played in achieving the paris climate agreement or the role it is playing within icao in extending the ets scheme worldwide.
there is no direct reference to the substance of the inquiry or to the verification of the conditions under which the eu and member states are applying the legislation on the control of emissions from passenger cars , but the report calls on member states and the commission to cooperate fully in providing all information useful to the inquiry.
‒ i believe that the work of the committee of inquiry into emissions measurement in the automotive sector (emis) is indispensable to investigate alleged breaches of union law or cases of maladministration in the measurement of emissions in the automotive sector.
‒ i am in favour of giving more support to the committee of inquiry into automotive emissions, given the seriousness and relevance of this sensitive issue for europe, its citizens and its industries.
we are at a historical moment where growth can only be sustainable, so please have an impact on all: from the stockholders to the citizens, from the workers to the environment.
‒ i am in favour of measuring emissions because i believe that the number of cars on the road should be monitored and regulated by legislation to limit air pollution.
the dialogue on emissions must remain a priority for the european union to protect the environment and the health of citizens.
‒ i am in favour of the draft report by the committee of inquiry into the measurement of emissions from the automotive sector, which urgently needs further information from the european commission.
‒ i supported the preliminary report presented by my colleagues on the special committee of inquiry into emissions from the motor vehicle sector, whose constructive tone i appreciated, with the aim of shedding light on and ensuring transparency on certain situations of great importance for environmental sustainability and industrial production in the european union.
the scandal of emissions in the automobile sector last year is a dark page which deserves to be examined in detail in order to clarify any political responsibilities, and for this reason the socialist and democratic group has already pushed for the formation of a parliamentary body which, in compliance with national court systems, would verify any responsibilities of public regulators.
specifically, its function appears to be to collect and analyse information to determine whether the commission and the member states have evidence to determine whether manipulation mechanisms have actually been used that could alter the actual car emissions results.
i think it is essential that we continue to carry out the most transparent and thorough investigation possible in order to establish what really happened and to prevent, thanks to the new legislation, that this can happen again to the detriment of our consumers and the environment.
in december 2015, parliament decided to set up a committee of inquiry to investigate alleged breaches and maladministration in the application of eu emissions law in the automotive sector, requesting a report within six months of the start of the work.
this report does not yet contain any direct reference to the merits of the inquiry or to verify possible maladministration by the european institutions and member states in the application of the legislation in force on the control of emissions from passenger cars , but it does stress, albeit in a rather general way, the need for greater cooperation between the member states and the commission in order to provide the information needed for the inquiry.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
he was first vice-chairman of the european parliament's special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering and a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
both because of the sensitivity he showed when he was minister for sustainable development, environment and climate change of the republic of malta, and because of his work as head of corporate research at hsbc bank malta, we do not see any reason to oppose his appointment as a member of the court of auditors of the european union.
as a minister in two different ministries, leo brincat has dealt with public finance issues, both as minister for finance and trade and as minister for sustainable development, environment and climate change.
i voted against the nomination of leo brincat, the maltese minister for sustainable development, former minister for finance, elected member of parliament in 1981 for having obstructed certain investigations during his time in office.
‒ energy, both gas and electricity is the lifeblood of the modern economy and thus energy policies have a huge impact on consumers and businesses alike.
in order for us policy makers to make the best possible regulations in order to support the energy market there is a natural need for up-to-date quality information and data.
given this, i supported this report, as it will help us make rules and regulations for european energy market with the most relevant information.
this is key to make the market sustainable while promoting economic growth in the wider economy.
since 2007, the liberalisation of energy markets has been taken into account and data collection has always been carried out on a voluntary basis with a response rate of 100%.
only in an economic environment of trust can wealth be created.
‒ the report, which focuses on the transformation of the energy market, introduces some innovative and highly interesting elements, one of which is a more forward-looking approach to renewable energy.
‒ the communications presented by the commission in july 2015 set out some clear objectives for the future of the energy market in our continent.
they revolve around three fundamental questions: the creation of an eu-wide electricity market; the european dimension of security of energy supply and the strengthening of regional cooperation in the field of energy policy.
the priority today is to define a new set of rules that are appropriate to the new nature of energy supply.
the energy market is increasingly moving from a traditional centralised system to a more flexible one based on renewables and local production.
europe needs to create smart distribution networks, promote new storage solutions and increase the confidence of the actors involved; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy market is not distorted.
‒ the langen report on the new energy market is unbalanced and contains criticisms which have led me to vote against it.
the energy market is a key aspect of the achievement of a truly single market in this sector.
only a harmonized market will provide the price signals needed to mobilise the investments needed to bring us to a dimension of solid interconnections and effective integration of energy from renewable sources.
we know, however, what the figures are on the european union's energy dependence and we have seen in recent years how geopolitical imbalances can expose us to this.
‒ in 2014, the energy market was the second largest market in the european union.
this large market needs to be reformed by creating an eu-wide electricity market that provides clear price signals for new investment, along with giving a european dimension to the security of energy supply and strengthening regional cooperation in the field of energy policy, in particular with regard to investment in new energy production facilities, interconnectors and aid schemes, while also taking care to support and promote the integration of renewable energies into the european single market.
‒ after careful reading and debate in the house, i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on 'towards a new energy market' as i believe that our international scenario shows that energy security - both in terms of supply and regulation - helps to guarantee and consolidate the political independence of the member states.
therefore, a dialogue should be encouraged and pursued with the aim of improving the implementation of the related energy transition towards cleaner and renewable sources and of mitigating market distortions.
this different management of sovereignty is an important part of the challenges facing europe in the energy sector, which ultimately needs - first and foremost - greater integration and interconnection.
‒ the european commission believes that the new electricity market should take full advantage of cross-border competition, allow distributed generation of electricity, including for self-consumption, and support the emergence of innovative energy service companies.
reform of the electricity market is crucial to achieving the eu's climate and energy objectives.
in particular, it must create the conditions for reducing energy consumption by better managing demand through new technologies (grids, meters and smart homes, energy storage systems), new services from innovative companies and reliable intermediaries, and the switch to alternative sources of consumption.
the report by mr langen is much better than the original version, but there are some unsustainable elements (ets, carbon leakage, fossil fuel exploitation, high-efficiency gas plants, etc.)
‒ the european union's energy policy must now adapt to the new global energy market in order to ensure security of supply, environmental sustainability and affordability for households and businesses.
i believe that these objectives should be pursued by promoting the integration and coordination of the energy markets of the member states with the ultimate aim of creating a single european market for electricity.
i voted in favour of the report because it calls on the member states and the commission to give high priority to the promotion of renewable energy and to establish wider regional markets, preferably by testing innovative projects across borders.
in fact, the agency for cooperation of energy regulators (acer) has pointed out that regional cooperation has enormous potential, especially in terms of cost savings.
i believe that interconnections within and between some member states should be strengthened, as there are still gaps which cause bottlenecks in the networks and affect cross-border energy exchanges.
i hope that the commission will ensure a level playing field for energy producers in member states and third countries, because competition stimulates energy security.
‒ i voted in favour of mr langen's report on the new energy market design, which is part of the series of documents on the european single market published by the commission on 15 july 2015. i congratulate the honourable member on his emphasis on the need for a single, stable energy system to ensure a sustainable and efficient supply.
i believe that the integration of individual national markets at european level will not only promote better cooperation between the countries of the union, but also reduce costs for european industries and consumers through the free movement of energy.
i also agree with the report on the need to promote investment and develop longterm projects in the field of renewable sources.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because in defining a new energy market structure it is necessary to give priority to renewable sources, while taking into account the maintenance of sustainable energy security and affordable prices for consumers.
a market structure that facilitates the process of change, without distorting competition and taking into account low-carbon energy sources, should be ensured in order to integrate production from renewable sources.
‒ the report lays the foundations for a re-ordering of the energy market, taking into account the changing nature of the system, which is moving increasingly away from a centralised vision towards a system increasingly based on variable renewable sources that contribute to the decarbonisation of our economy, often produced locally.
the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to use the community's resources to finance their own energy projects.
secondly, the strengthening of the energy supply system, through a truly european approach.
‒ the transition to decentralised energy production based on the exploitation of renewable sources is now underway.
this requires a radical change in energy market governance and regulation to recognise the growing number of players involved, no longer just large producers on the one hand and passive energy consumers on the other.
the rapporteur langen, however, proposes a text which only apparently seems to trigger a change in the energy market, which puts renewables and decentralised production at the centre.
as the five star movement we have proposed amendments to introduce extremely innovative elements such as the concept of prosumer, to recognise the existence of a new subject, that of the growing number of citizens who, in addition to consuming energy, produce it.
however, i regret that there are still too many references in the text to the continued exploitation of fossil fuels, nuclear energy and the so-called ets or 'emission trading system' (which has so far coincided only with the creation of a speculative market in co2 allowances without any benefit to the climate).
i see that these aspects do not really change the paradigm in the energy market.
‒ this report represents a necessary move towards decentralisation in the european energy market.
if the european energy market is to functions to its fullest of potential it must become more regionalised, more flexible and with a high degree of regional cooperation.
it is also very important that this design is specifically market-oriented to attract investment and to drive innovation in order to achieve a sustainable energy market for european consumers and businesses.
‒ europe made very significant commitments last year at the cop21 climate conference.
to achieve the reductions in consumption and emissions, a profound change in our energy systems is needed, starting with our daily habits.
a key weight in the distribution of emissions is represented by heating and cooling in buildings, which in themselves also constitute a significant financial commitment for many households in europe.
to achieve the paris target of a 40% reduction in energy consumption, extraordinary action is needed: we call on the commission, in the context of the announced reform proposal on the energy efficiency of buildings, to introduce ambitious and demanding measures.
‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on 'towards a new energy market architecture' because i believe that the integration of all stakeholders is essential to achieve the objectives of secure, affordable, efficient and sustainable energy set by cop21 in paris last december 2015. i believe that it is essential to strengthen regional cooperation in the field of energy policy so as to better coordinate investment in new energy production facilities and to maximise the impact and effectiveness of financing.
the growing concerns about climate and environmental protection, already expressed in many international forums, highlight the need to promote the development of renewable energy, while not neglecting the need to ensure security and sustainable and affordable energy supply, especially to support a good standard of living for households and to safeguard jobs in energy-intensive companies.
finally, i am convinced that there is a need for more intensive dialogue and closer cooperation between the eu institutions, bodies and agencies in order to create a more favourable environment for innovation and research.
– i voted in favour of the report on towards a new energy market design because i consider that exemplary measures and initiatives must be taken in order to tackle the energy-related challenges europe is facing.
such challenges include the dependency on oil and gas imports, high-energy prices, security risks, the fights against climate change, and poor progress in energy efficiency, among others.
only by taking the necessary measures to resolve these conflicts we will be able to achieve the common european goal of a secure, affordable, environmentally sound energy supply.
‒ energy markets, and in particular electricity markets, still retain a strongly national character, based on the principle of national responsibility for the energy mix.
measures for the implementation of national energy mix vary widely, ranging from the abandonment of nuclear energy to subsidies for renewable energy and the introduction of so-called capacity regulation mechanisms in some member states in order to ensure security of supply.
the langen report aims to strengthen the european internal energy market by contributing to a secure and efficient supply through clear and concrete strategies.
the structure of the european energy market requires harmonization in the light of the current changing situation: the transition from centralised production using mega-energy plants to off-site production with an increasing number of actors involved, and above all the change from the figure of the 'consumer' to that of the 'producer and consumer', or the prosumer.
however, the report does not fully accept the role of renewable energy as the focal point around which the energy market should revolve, but emphasises the role of the 'self-regulating market', delegitimising incentives to support renewables and, subtly, endorsing those in support of fossil or nuclear sources.
‒ the challenges facing europe in the energy sector include dependence on oil and gas imports, which has increased further in recent years, lack of diversification, high energy prices due to state levies, overall growth in global energy demand, security risks for producing and transit countries, the fight against climate change, limited progress in energy efficiency, the growing share of renewable energy, the integration and interconnection of energy markets and market distortions due to different aid schemes.
the report aims to strengthen the internal energy market and allow electricity to move freely where it is needed most in order to reap the maximum benefits from cross-border competition and provide the right signals and incentives to drive the right investments.
a dynamic society and economy requires a secure and efficient energy supply.
‒ the decentralisation of the energy market requires a new regulatory and governance framework for energy.
in the european commission's report 'towards a new energy market architecture', the commission considers that the new electricity market should allow, in view of the eu's climate and energy objectives, the establishment of a distributed electricity network (including self-consumption) and the development of innovative energy services.
i am not satisfied with this report which does not really recognise the importance of renewable energy and decentralisation in view of decarbonisation and eu objectives in general.
i have tried to bring back the focus, through a series of amendments, on the importance of the renewable energy market, prosumer, for a real and inclusive energy transition.
other amendments i tabled were aimed at mitigating collective risks (such as the carbon bubble) and negative externalities.
‒ i voted in favour of the report 'towards a new energy market architecture' because i believe that the energy union must be completed as soon as possible.
reform of the electricity market is key to achieving the eu's climate and energy objectives.
in particular, the conditions for reducing energy consumption through better demand management must be created.
this is possible thanks to new technologies that can be put in place to improve networks, meters, building smart homes and energy storage systems, but also by using new services from innovative companies, reliable intermediaries and the transition of consumption to alternative sources.
this report does not propose the revolution needed to create a new energy market structure that places renewables and their decentralised production at the centre.
the key role that the new framework must play in order to accelerate the process of decarbonising electricity in order to contribute to the achievement of the eu's climate and energy objectives is not recognised.
‒ the report on the eu's heating and cooling strategy presents some very innovative and important proposals for environmental protection at eu level.
however, there is one element that contradicts the above: the production of energy from waste.
‒ almost 50% of the eu's final energy demand is used for heating and cooling, of which about 80% is used for buildings.
it is strongly in line with the same european objectives, which envisage a heating and cooling sector based entirely on renewable energy by 2050 at the latest.
high energy efficiency, high-performance thermal insulation and, above all, the use of renewable energy sources and thermal energy recovery are the key priorities, together with a more decentralised and flexible energy system.
the european structural and investment funds can be an important instrument for the implementation of these proposals and for the more general modernisation of the continent's energy system.
the new strategy must not only be a strength of the union's environmental policy but also a great opportunity for both businesses and consumers.
‒ more than 40% of final energy consumption in europe occurs in buildings, a consumption that contributes 36% of total co2 emissions.
the impact of heating and cooling on these figures clearly shows the importance of action in these sectors to rationalise energy consumption and reduce pollution and emissions.
in view of the commission's legislative proposals on energy efficiency and the performance of buildings, parliament intends to stress with this report, which i support, the importance of encouraging all measures that can lead to the modernisation of heating and cooling systems.
‒ the heating and cooling of public buildings, industry and housing has a major economic and environmental impact for the whole of the european union.
for the countries that joined the eu after 2004, the main efficiency opportunities are concentrated in the thermal retrofitting of buildings, which is considered the simplest solution to ensure more efficient use of energy and a significant reduction in co2 emissions.
to that end, a financial envelope of at least 25% of the total should be allocated from the european energy efficiency and renewable energy fund.
more efficient heating means a healthier environment and savings for all citizens.
‒ after careful reading and debate in the chamber, i voted in favour of the report on the european parliament's motion for a resolution on an eu strategy for heating and cooling, as i believe that the scenario of a proper energy supply can no longer be separated from that of more efficient use of energy and a significant reduction in co2 emissions, following the cop 21 agreement, now also ratified by the usa and china.
the energy resilience of our countries and the fight against so-called energy poverty must also be taken into account.
the energy markets are still strongly regionalist in nature, based on the principle of national responsibility for the energy mix, which is very uneven between the states.
‒ heating and cooling account for half of the eu's energy consumption and much of this energy is wasted.
making them more efficient and sustainable is a strategic priority of the energy union.
the report by mr gierek contains many positive points (for example, the importance of dismantling the most obsolete power stations as soon as possible and of speeding up the replacement of the most polluting domestic equipment), but it contains some elements which do not satisfy us: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the introduction of a new energy policy for the european union, the introduction of a new energy policy for the european union, the introduction of a new energy policy for the european union, the introduction of a new energy policy for the european union, the introduction of a new energy policy for the european union, the introduction of a new energy policy for the european union, the introduction of a new energy policy for the european union, the introduction of a new energy policy for the european union, the introduction of a new energy policy for the european union, the introduction of a new energy policy for the european union, and the introduction of a new energy policy for the european union.
‒ the european union's energy policy on heating and cooling must aim to reduce member states' energy dependence, lower costs for consumers and reduce emissions in line with the targets set at the paris climate change conference (cop 21).
to date, almost 40% of the eu's final energy demand is used for heating and cooling buildings.
it is necessary to increase the energy efficiency of buildings through renovation and refurbishment, in particular by improving their thermal insulation.
i thought i would vote in favour of the report because it calls on the member states to put in place strategies to enable consumers to be more involved in the energy market and to take action to control energy consumption.
it is also appropriate to continue to support the construction of nearly zero-energy buildings.
i believe that the member states should provide incentives for the promotion and use of renewable energy.
and it is essential to invest in research and innovation in order to develop energy-efficient technologies.
finally, i believe that member states should ensure that a share of the funding for energy efficiency goes to households by helping them to invest in more efficient heating and cooling equipment.
‒ i welcome the report by the committee on industry which sets out a vital european strategy on heating and cooling, as i consider this a priority issue in the context of sustainable growth.
the european energy policy includes reducing the use of fossil fuels and boosting renewable energy (which today has a use, although increasing, limited to 18%) to ensure cleaner, safer, competitive, persistent and affordable energy for all.
at a time when affordability of energy and competitive energy prices are increasingly a concern for households and businesses, we need to reduce our dependence on fossil fuels and reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
‒ i voted in favour of the report because, in defining the european union's strategy for heating and cooling, it puts the emphasis on the energy retrofitting of buildings, stressing that action by the european energy efficiency fund is needed to help citizens bear the costs of modernising their buildings by covering at least 25% of the total cost.
‒ the european parliament resolution presents a european strategy for improving heating and cooling in buildings at european level, contributing to the overall objectives of decarbonisation and energy efficiency.
the european parliament, in its resolution, notes that the share of primary energy from fossil fuels used for heating and cooling remains very high and represents a major obstacle to decarbonisation, thereby accelerating climate change and causing significant damage to the environment.
this process must involve the different actors at all levels: the commission should use a major financial mechanism, for example to accelerate the rate of building renovation and to allocate a higher share of eu funds to energy efficiency programmes and the use of energy from renewable sources; member states must take measures to provide strong incentives for energy efficiency improvements; national and local authorities must ensure that consumers are fully aware of and can benefit from the technical and economic benefits of new heating and cooling systems.
‒ this strategy is a useful opportunity and an important commitment to the development of renewable energy and the reduction of co2 emissions.
in addition, investments in the technologies and management of new insulating equipment and constructions, such as reverse heat pumps and prefabricated panels, are becoming increasingly important in combating global warming.
the report takes the climate challenge seriously and protects the well-being of citizens and the environment, which is why i have decided to support it.
‒ improving heating and cooling systems must be at the heart of our efforts to achieve the energy efficiency target within the union.
this objective is all the more important in a historical context and in an economic, climatic and environmental context which call for europe to break the chains of its energy dependence and to exploit, as far as possible, renewable energy sources, responding virtuously to the growing needs of households and businesses.
for example, i find myself in the need, highlighted in the text that has come to the plenary, to decentralize energy production and to redevelop the building stock as a whole.
i am thinking, for example, of some references to geothermal energy, district heating and waste generation (by incineration) as methods of contributing to decentralized and efficient energy production.
i believe that the strategy does not sufficiently address the environmental problems that can be triggered by the use of such technologies.
the commission has the merit of addressing the issue adequately, giving priority to the achievement of objectives such as: a strategy for decarbonisation, renovation of existing buildings to allow for lower energy consumption, integration of electricity systems with those of cooling and heating.
‒ i am voting in favour of the report as it is right to take account of climate differences within europe and to support new instruments for energy efficiency.
if we wish to move to a more energy efficient and effective society, we must not forget that heating and cooling stands for close to 50% of the eu’s final energy demand.
given this, action from our part in increasing the efficiency and sustainability of heating and cooling in the eu will play a major role in the overall effectiveness of the energy market.
‒ europe made very significant commitments last year at the cop21 climate conference.
to achieve the reductions in consumption and emissions, a profound change in our energy systems is needed, starting with our daily habits.
a key weight in the distribution of emissions is represented by heating and cooling in buildings, which in themselves also constitute a significant financial commitment for many households in europe.
to achieve the paris target of a 40% reduction in energy consumption, extraordinary action is needed: we call on the commission, in the context of the announced reform proposal on the energy efficiency of buildings, to introduce ambitious and demanding measures.
‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on a european union strategy for heating and cooling because i believe that one of the main challenges facing our planet today is to protect the environment, reduce energy consumption and ensure the sustainability of energy sources.
considering that approximately 50% of the eu's final energy demand is for heating and cooling, it is crucial that these sectors are compatible with the eu's climate and energy targets, which call for the full use of renewable energy by 2050. i believe that these objectives are a good starting point for discussing a serious and effective global strategy that delivers concrete results and offers important job opportunities for businesses and consumers in the eu.
finally, i support the need to develop new technologies relating to renewable energy sources, thanks also to incentives from the member states and to facilities for the retirement of obsolete heating systems.
among the priorities of the european union, the commission has designed the first strategy aimed at supporting the correct and moderate use of energy and fossil fuels in a specific sector, such as heating and cooling.
it is the most common use of energy, accounting for 50% of the total, of which only 18% is renewable and 75% fossil coal.
the strategy therefore aims to optimise energy efficiency, increase the use of renewable energy and encourage the reuse of waste energy from industrial heating and cooling.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu's strategy for heating and cooling, a very important issue to ensure more efficient use of energy and a significant reduction in co2 emissions.
to that end, a financial envelope of at least 25% of the total should be allocated from the european energy efficiency and renewable energy fund.
the specific problems of buildings in rural areas, which tend to be older, less energy efficient, less healthy and less thermally comfortable, also need to be addressed.
‒ heating and cooling account for 40% of all primary energy and 50% of all usable energy in the form of heat, and much of this is wasted.
however, the heating and cooling system and the electricity system can support each other in efforts to reduce carbon emissions.
in february, the commission proposed an 'eu heating and cooling strategy' to propose measures to eliminate energy dissipation in buildings by maximising the efficiency and sustainability of heating and cooling systems, including through the use of advanced technologies.
the report by the committee on energy, research and technology on the commission's initiative on heating and cooling contains some important points which i fully support, such as the dismantling of obsolete power stations, the replacement of household appliances which cause the most pollution, an increase in the rate of building renewal, especially in view of the objectives of having zero emission buildings by 2050, etc.
however, the report retains some ambiguities in relation to district heating, geothermal energy and the committee's strategy on energy production, which seems to support the use of incinerators.
to that end, a financial envelope of at least 25% of the total should be allocated from the european energy efficiency and renewable energy fund.
‒ in the area of heating and cooling, the european strategy should aim to increase the share of renewable energy, whereas 75% of the fuels used in this sector are still of fossil origin.
the existing technology would allow a smarter and more sustainable use of resources, contributing to a transition to a green economy.
the amendments proposed by m5s to the gierek report were aimed at decentralising energy production, increasing the share of renewables in heating and cooling and energy retrofitting in the industrial sector.
the report contains some points about certain forms of district heating, biogas without specifying its origin and, above all, about generic energy production from waste (which implies the use of incinerators) with which i disagree.
the report seeks to remedy the current energy consumption in the european union: more than half of the energy demand goes to heating and cooling buildings, not only consuming more energy than needed but also creating a financial burden for many households in europe.
a change in the energy sector is therefore needed to make it more efficient, environmentally responsible and socially oriented.
heating and cooling account for half of the eu's energy consumption, but much of the energy produced for heating and cooling is lost.
one of the union's strategic priorities in the energy field can only be to make these two major consumer items more efficient and sustainable.
this will reduce energy import dependency and costs for households and businesses, but also contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and to the commitments made in the paris climate agreement cop21.
we in the m5s have succeeded in getting this report to say that energy production for heating and cooling is increasingly coming from renewable sources and that there is a need for energy-efficient upgrading of existing buildings, both private and industrial.
however, the report contains elements which i do not share, such as the strategy on waste-to-energy which involves the use of incinerators.
this report recognises the fundamental importance of smes for the economic and social fabric of europe and in this regard calls on the commission to: simplify existing legislation to facilitate access to credit for smes (with specific reference to microcredit and the need to find a lasting solution to the backlog of payments related to regional policy); take account of the added value of smes' projects for the development and innovation of traditional sectors, which have been stifled by the austerity policies implemented by the european union; take into account the principles of the circular economy package in order to promote more sustainable economic growth; ensure transparency in public procurement to avoid possible fraud.
the report focuses on key issues such as job growth through the promotion of more sustainable economic prosperity, the commission's tackling of the serious problem of late payments and support for self-employment through microcredit, so that barriers to access to traditional banking services can be overcome.
the esi funds are sound and worthwhile instruments, financing 11 thematic objectives, including the promotion of the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises in the agricultural sector (for the eafrd) and the fisheries and aquaculture sector (for the emff), as well as the related investment priorities for the erdf: any useful actions to support the implementation of the eu europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable, inclusive and inclusive growth in europe.
the report by our colleague rosa d'amato contains several positive aspects: the definition of the internationalisation process for smes, which should be based on corporate social responsibility, respect for human and labour rights and the highest possible level of environmental protection, in order to ensure fair competition and an increase in quality employment; the emphasis on the difficulties faced by smes, with a clear mention of the fact that the austerity policies implemented by the member states and the european union have stifled demand; the recognition of the lack of factual data on the effects and results produced by financial instruments and the weak link between those financial instruments and the overall objectives and priorities of the eu; the mention of microcredit, which is mainly aimed at micro-entrepreneurs and disadvantaged people who wish to start their own business, is key to overcoming barriers to access to traditional banking services.
only in this way and through synergistic action can the impact and effect of investment be maximised to create a positive development and growth ecosystem.
moreover, the competitiveness of smes promotes economically and environmentally sustainable and responsible growth at community, national and regional levels.
the entire production system needs to be rethought so that concrete steps can be taken towards a circular economy and energy transition, while creating jobs and green jobs.
i therefore voted in favour of mr d'amato's report on the implementation of the thematic objective of promoting the competitiveness of smes because i believe they are the engine of europe's long-term economic growth as well as the opportunity to create sustainable jobs in the 28 member states.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the cohesion fund and its impact on the environment and the environment.
the report sets out the way forward for europe: the key points are, for example, socially responsible internationalisation and an integrated process of regional and european policy, without forgetting to promote the transition to the circular economy and to initiate a decisive process of decarbonisation and self-production of energy in favour of renewable sources.
in addition, there is a call for a circular economy in order to promote more sustainable economic growth.
for example, among the positive points, the approach to biodiversity and the preservation of the region's ecosystem is noteworthy, underlining the urgent need to develop new strategies to combat air pollution.
the environment, agriculture, the risk of depopulation, employment, transport, research and governance are just some of the issues addressed in the commission's proposal, issues which have been taken up with particular effectiveness by the bresso report, which i have decided to support with conviction.
the union's strategy must aim to reconcile environmental sustainability with economic development in a natural area that is already a major tourist destination.
thanks to the eusalp macro-regional strategy, which covers a territory of 80 million citizens, our northern regions will be able to manage the large amounts of eu funding for joint projects in the fields of environment, tourism, transport and energy on their own.
‒ given the strategic importance of the alpine region, given its geographical position in the heart of europe, but also as a 'water reservoir' for the energy challenges facing the eu, the alpine strategy is intended as a macro-regional framework for enhanced cooperation.
the report, which i support, highlights the potential of the alpine region for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, which combines social, economic and environmental interests.
the ultimate aim of this strategy is to enhance the attractiveness and competitiveness of the alpine area, focusing on the sustainable use of natural resources and the protection of cultural heritage, starting with local communities.
‒ although the report deals comprehensively with several important issues, such as the issue of biodiversity and the preservation of the region's ecosystem, the issues of employment and innovation, and stresses the importance of ensuring fast and efficient access to high-speed internet, i regret that no mention is made of any of them in the tav.
although the region is already covered by various cooperation agreements, connectivity is limited, logistical problems and climate change create disadvantages and limit production activities.
eusalp's strategy is built on three pillars: improving competitiveness, prosperity and cohesion; ensuring accessibility and connectivity; promoting the alpine cultural heritage and the sustainable use of natural resources.
it is therefore essential to ensure better accessibility and connectivity to the whole area in a manner consistent with the protection of the alpine environment.
i also believe that the strategy structured around three pillars, including improving the competitiveness and cohesion of the alpine region, increasing accessibility and strengthening the region's transport sector and promoting the alpine heritage and the sustainable use of natural and cultural resources, represents a good starting point.
m5s has tabled amendments to the text to prevent projects harmful to health and the environment, not economically viable and, in particular, in the case of the tav, completely useless as the existing track is functional, recently renovated and underused, from being carried out today and in the future.
other major priorities in the alpine region are better digital connections and to promote the self-generation of energy.
as with other macro-regional strategies, the alpine macro-region also contributes to the consolidation of regional identities and cultural heritage, as well as to the protection of a folk heritage and biodiversity that must not be lost.
it also encourages innovation and the use of new technologies in the economy; promotes tourism and the importance of transport connectivity; and enhances the biodiversity of regions.
difficult connections, high sensitivity to climate change, critical issues in the development of energy infrastructure and promotion of start-ups and small and medium-sized enterprises are some of the issues to which the report offers concrete solutions.
the role of the strategy is to maximise synergies between existing cooperation and to ensure that they are in line with the european macro-objectives, while also strengthening them in the areas most critical to achieving sustainable development in the area.
‒ in addition to thanking the rapporteur for her work, i would like to reiterate my idea and the importance of key projects for sustainable european transport and as an incentive for the whole territory and the neighbouring regions.
this report stresses in particular the importance of encouraging innovation and the development of new technologies in key sectors of the economy, while also maintaining traditional forms of economic activity; supports the diversification of tourism, stresses the importance of improving transport and energy connectivity and protecting and enhancing the biodiversity of the alpine region.
although the bresso report refers to the issues of depopulation in mountain areas, the importance of ensuring fast internet access to enable digital and online services, including e-commerce and teleworking, and although the theme of biodiversity and the preservation of the ecosystem is also mentioned, many critical issues still remain.
the main problem we are facing is the danger of a great waste of money on the existing and recently modernized turin-lyon line.
the alpine region is already involved in several cooperation agreements but needs improved transport links, a solution to the logistical problems of smes and is suffering the negative effects of climate change.
through the investment plan and the european fund for strategic investments, the report will support small and medium-sized enterprises in the alpine area, promote sustainable and competitive tourism, enhance transport infrastructure by making the construction of cross-border corridors fully operational, protect the alpine heritage by promoting a sustainable use of natural and cultural resources and protect alpine agriculture, biodiversity and ecosystems.
following our contributions, the report has improved considerably from the first draft, and now also calls for safeguarding the existing alpine convention, managing the risk of natural disasters and climate change, ensuring participation and access to documents, promoting renewable, local and self-production energy, smes and sustainable tourism, renewing and making optimal use of existing networks and infrastructure, protecting biodiversity, soil and water, and taking action against air pollution.
i call on the commission to undertake a more systematic assessment of the impact of its policies and funding, including the eu trust fund, especially in relation to their effects on sustainable development, human rights and gender equality.
it is also necessary to ensure that the fund, which is used for cooperation projects, is used mainly for the purposes of education and protection of minors, job creation and environmental projects.
in particular, addressing the root causes of migration, the report proposes effective solutions, such as simplifying the disbursement of funds to promote stability, sustainable economic growth, social cohesion and development in the african region.
finally, the eu trust fund for africa should foster policy coherence for sustainable development and complementarity between all development actors and programmes.
we believe that the fund should help to create employment in local sectors, while ensuring respect for human rights and the protection of the environment.
in particular, the european union wants to help the sahel region as a whole to face the growing challenges of demographic pressure, environmental stress, extreme poverty, internal tensions, weak institutions, weak social and economic infrastructure.
to this end, the working environment must be transformed by overcoming the notion that only time spent at work (paid) has utility and value.
i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the commission and the member states must adopt policies which improve the working environment, create good working conditions and social and occupational well-being, and at the same time a good work-life balance.
fundamental rights need to be upheld and defended as our best guarantee for sustainable, open and free societies.
i sincerely hope that at the next summit we will be able to find joint, sustainable and lasting solutions to the dramatic situation of the movement of migrants and refugees, so as to fill the gap in solidarity and responsibility that europe has unfortunately also experienced in recent times.
but we must have the courage to face up to the problem of the sustainability of tunisia's debt, which is the odious fruit of the years of dictatorship.
the aim is to convert this into investment projects, in particular by exploiting the country's enormous renewable energy potential and by bridging the regional disparities, which are particularly evident in the south and west of the country.
it focuses on trade, but also on climate change and the fight against desertification, and it endorses the work that operation sophia is doing in the mediterranean, while calling for greater engagement of eu agencies in tunisia.
– mr president, in recent years, wildlife crime became one of the most serious threats to global biodiversity and people’s livelihoods.
i want to reiterate: first of all, sustainable growth, work, the moralization of european democracy, solidarity - four key words for our values, consistent with our values, with our socialist principles: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives, and has also set up a number of working groups to examine the impact of the information provided by the commission on the environment.
question number two: poverty, income redistribution, inequality, social dumping and sustainable growth are our priorities.
we need to support sustainable growth, based on innovation, solidarity and inclusiveness: innovation, high quality, efficient services and high-quality products are what make the european market strong.
furthermore, there is no chapter on sustainable development in the treaty and civil society has not been included in the wording.
these agreements can be a tool for development and sustainable economic growth, but supporting the economies of the sadc states which are members of the epa (botswana, lesotho, mozambique, namibia, south africa and swaziland) would be to the disadvantage of the mediterranean countries of europe, especially the agriculture of southern italy which would suffer a further blow.
moreover, although this regional agreement is mainly geared towards developing trade relations in terms of trade in goods and sustainable development cooperation, it also leaves room for negotiation of further provisions on services, investment and intellectual property.
the economic partnership agreement introduces a chapter dedicated to regional integration and safeguarding sustainable trade and development in the sadc states.
for example, the eu has shown flexibility, allowing sadc epa states to maintain existing export duties, to apply new export taxes in the event of specific revenue needs, and to exclude sensitive products from liberalisation, to promote nascent industries and to protect the environment.
in this context, although the agreement provides for an asymmetrical opening of the two markets to the benefit of the sadc countries, its structure raises some concerns in the field of human rights and sustainable development.
this agreement, which is a trade and development partnership between the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) states and the european union, aims to support trade, regional integration and to foster sustainable development.
the economic partnership agreement between the eu and the 15 sadc epa states is a regional economic development agreement that includes not only trade in goods, development cooperation and trade and sustainable development provisions, but also provisions on services, investment, intellectual property, public procurement and better conditions for sustainable development.
i voted in favour of the conclusion of the eu and the sadc epa states to set an economic partnership, for such activity shows signs of the following: bringing fundamental positive change, contributing to sustainable economic growth, and strengthening intra-regional trade and integration.
however, there is a need to emphasise the importance of trade by the african states in a sustainable manner that can comply with eu regulations.
this agreement builds on the implementation of the labour convention in the fisheries sector and provides for greater protection for workers working on board fishing vessels, given the high rate of fatal and non-fatal accidents, as well as the risk of occupational diseases and their frequency compared to other sectors in a hazardous work environment.
i express my full support for the assembly of representatives of the tunisian people in the process of democratization undertaken for the welfare of tunisia itself and to provide stability in an extremely precarious environment.
the report we have adopted today calls on europe to assume its responsibility as a democratic actor: the diplomatic attraction we can have is indeed of great importance, to accompany tunisian society and institutions towards cooperation that can make it easier to manage the great crises of our time, such as the fight against terrorism, the management of migration flows, environmental sustainability.
the report, which we welcome, promotes cooperation for sustainable development and security.
i believe in the need to achieve social convergence in the eu, for a fairer labour market in order to achieve strong and sustainable competitiveness in all member states.
i supported the report because it is committed to improving controls and legislation at both european and national level for the development of a sustainable and competitive economy while respecting workers' rights and social progress.
let us not lament the loss of jobs and then generate an energy policy which is totally contrary to the development of our industry.
the need to ensure, in the presence of exceptional circumstances, an adequate margin of flexibility to preserve the sustainability of the service by adapting it to new user needs and recent market developments is not denied.
let us see what more can be done to promote sustainable finance.
with this in mind, the commission is setting up an expert group to develop a more comprehensive strategy on sustainable finance, and we will look at how to create the right environment for the safe promotion of fin-tech throughout the eu.
it is clear that in this competitive environment there is no future, the imbalances within the eurozone will widen more and more and small and mediumsized enterprises will continue to close.
but there can be no sustainable employment growth if discrimination in access to employment and in the workplace is not also combated.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
member states, in cooperation with local and regional authorities, need to tackle the very serious problem of unemployment in a timely manner by facilitating investment in the creation of sustainable and quality jobs with a particular focus on the green, white and blue sector and the social economy.
the guidelines for member states' employment policies are based on the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and aim to support reforms for sustainable, knowledge-based and innovation-driven growth.
therefore, i voted in favour of the resolution as i agree that the union needs to ensure an inclusive and integrated labour market that is able to address the repercussions of unemployment, provide adequate working conditions and guarantee social protection, while at the same time pursuing smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
the report therefore restates the same amendments as last year, aimed at focusing attention on the need to achieve an inclusive market that can respond to the problem of unemployment, create sustainable jobs and ensure decent working conditions.
the resolution adopted by parliament today supports the eu action plan against wildlife trafficking, encouraging all parties to strengthen cooperation, coordination and synergies between the biodiversity conventions.
the trafficking of wildlife is a serious threat to biodiversity and sustainable development.
the union and the member states should use all available tools to encourage parties to respect the cites convention and other international agreements called for by the convention aimed at protecting wild flora and fauna and biodiversity.
‒ the 17th meeting of the contracting parties to the convention on international trade in endangered species (cites) will mark a pivotal moment in our efforts to preserve biodiversity on a global scale.
the message that parliament is sending today with this vote is clear and unequivocal: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the eu's strategic objectives for the 17th meeting of the conference of the parties to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) to be held in johannesburg from 24 september to 5 october 2016, because i consider it essential to find a common understanding to regulate the hunting of species at high risk of extinction at international level and to preserve plant biodiversity.
this is a key step in ensuring that the eu can pursue the objectives of its environmental policies and the regulation of international trade in endangered species of flora and fauna, as well as promoting the sustainable development policies of the un 2030 agenda.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
to ensure that the postal service continues to be a sector capable of contributing to social, economic and territorial cohesion, it is necessary to define minimum rules between operators avoiding unjustified regulation and unnecessary red tape, to ensure a sustainable but flexible provision of universal service taking into account local specificities, to continue to provide a consistently high quality service at affordable conditions and to increase the transparency of tariffs applied to the various products.
the postal services therefore need a new directive to achieve a single, transparent and competitive market and to promote sustainable and efficient economic growth.
the commission is therefore called upon to promote and safeguard competition in the sector in order to achieve the europe 2020 objectives of sustainable growth and a more competitive economy.
in addition, country-specific factors, including the economic environment, structural factors such as the legal framework and cultural issues have a strong influence on the financing needs and availability of financing options: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a directive on the protection of the financial interests of the union against fraud and other irregularities (oj c 180, 1.7.1998, p.
in writing.
‒ the report analyses several possibilities for increasing funding for smes, but some of these are not sustainable because they risk producing the opposite effect.
the report analyses several possibilities for increasing sme funding, some of which are not sustainable.
the report sets out the policies needed, both at national and european level, to achieve a healthy environment for business development and to boost its job-creating potential.
the report by mr krasnodębski stresses that in order to achieve a healthy environment for the development of enterprises and to boost their job creation potential, national and european policies must first of all be concerned with tackling the problems related to skills (shortage, inadequacy, brain drain), regulatory uncertainty and administrative burdens, as well as to undeclared work and the de facto privileged position of multinationals.
i believe it is essential to create an economic environment which facilitates the development of smes and stimulates their ability to recruit.
the administrative burden on selfemployed workers in micro-enterprises is currently disproportionate to that of large enterprises and i agree with the rapporteur when he calls on the commission and the member states to promote collaborative networks through the establishment of cooperatives, which will greatly enhance sustainability and job creation.
in the light of these challenges, i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe it is essential to strengthen the conditions for job creation in all eu member states, peripheral and central, in order to achieve a healthy environment for business development.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because it underlines the importance of creating a healthy environment for the development of enterprises and to give greater impetus to their job-creation potential.
we must make sure that rules for doing business are simple and easy to access in order to create a good regulatory environment and that it is easy to hire and do all the accompanying paperwork.
this is why it is important to work towards ensuring fair competition, access to finance, an appropriate regulatory framework, skills to meet the challenges of the 21st century and good social dialogue, in order to enable smes to create sustainable and quality jobs.
not only that: the austerity measures imposed in recent years have increased the number of forced displacements of workers aged between 45 and 55 who are unable to reintegrate into the current employment environment, also because of age discrimination.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is a support and solidarity instrument for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade and aims to promote sustainable employment by preparing and assisting the unemployed for new work.
the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals will need to set the roadmap for closer cooperation that takes into account the challenges that have arisen in the meantime.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the instability of agricultural commodity markets, population growth and changing diets globally, environmental constraints on food production and the consequences of climate change are all elements that make up a new scarcity scenario.
a role recognised by the united nations itself, which has placed food security at the heart of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development.
with the new sustainable development goals, we committed not only to ending chronic hunger, but also to working towards greater food security and fighting malnutrition, because once the need for food is met, it's the quality and variety of the diet that you have to look at.
it would only be 0.3% of world gdp to diversify crops, invest seriously in rural people, especially smallholder farmers, and promote sustainable agriculture.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the sustainable development goal of the un agenda aims to end world hunger by 2030 through increased productivity of smallholder farmers and the promotion of sustainable agriculture.
policy development and programming must take account of the links between nutrition, health and job creation, growth and sustainable production.
the european union must work strategically to create the conditions for combating food waste and for the development of sustainable and quality agriculture, with particular reference to support for small and micro-farms.
the environmental damage caused by deforestation cannot be underestimated.
in addition to the very serious loss of biodiversity, deforestation is one of the main causes of hydrogeological disruption and causes floods and landslides.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in times of climate change, forests are becoming the only ally for the protection of the lives and well-being of millions of human beings.
they are also the most important reservoir of biodiversity and a building block for indigenous communities and farmers worldwide.
secondly, the text is consistent with the european trade strategy, a policy aimed at promoting sustainable development and growth, while imposing the principles of protection and social justice on globalisation.
today the european union is clearly reaffirming its commitment to continued climate action.
the eu worked hard for many years to shape the new climate action agreement and to make it possible last year in paris.
at the extraordinary environment council meeting last friday we worked hard to secure the support of member states for the decision on the eu ratification of the paris agreement.
– mr president, as chair of the committee on the environment and rapporteur, i am proud to recommend to the house to give the largest support to the eu ratification of the paris agreement.
since then, the eu has been leading the international action to fight climate change and has worked hard to make paris a success.
the extraordinary european council on the environment on 30 september voted on a text amended from the original, which re-assigns the responsibility for meeting emission reduction commitments to the member states and the union.
as i believe that the agreement is a starting point for dealing with such an important and sensitive issue as climate change, and therefore ratification by all member states is strictly necessary, i voted in favour.
‒ the conclusion of the paris agreement at the end of cop21 was a major step in the history of the fight against climate change, a decisive turning point towards effective, collective and global action on one of the most crucial challenges of our time.
europe can only assume a leading role in this field, following the commitment already made in recent years and directing its efforts towards the creation of an economy that is both sustainable and competitive, and able to guarantee stability and social equity.
with eu ratification, it will be able to enter into force in time for the cop22 climate conference in marrakech from 7 to 18 november.
‒ i do not agree with the report analysing the conclusion of the paris agreement under the united nations framework convention on climate change.
i believe that with this agreement the eu has committed itself to providing large amounts of finance to developing countries without actually getting anything in return, either from an environmental or an economic point of view, and i am convinced that this will seriously damage the competitiveness of the productive fabric of our territories.
‒ i am pleased with today's vote and the ratification by the european union of the paris agreement, a historic moment because the ratification by the 28 eu member states allows the agreement to enter into force quickly (thanks to the achievement of the necessary quotas: ratification by at least 55 contracting parties representing at least 55% of total emissions).
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the draft council decision to adopt the paris agreement signed in paris on the 12 december 2015, because i firmly believe that the eu is a world leader in fighting climate change.
‒ the paris agreement is a historically important achievement in the fight against climate change.
it marked a turning point towards collective global action to achieve a climate-resilient and zero-climate global economy.
it is necessary to stabilise greenhouse gas emissions as soon as possible and to achieve climate neutrality in the second half of the century.
the decision to ratify the conclusion of the paris agreement will send a strong signal and underline the ongoing efforts of the eu and its member states to address climate change at international level.
we must show that we are united in the face of the climate challenge".
we must not weaken the eu's historic and undisputed role in protecting the environment and the planet.
‒ parliament gave its consent to the eu ratifying the un climate protection agreement reached in paris nine months ago.
the paris agreement on climate change, the first ever binding global climate agreement, will come into force next month, much earlier than expected, thanks to this historic vote.
the agreement requires ratification by at least 55 countries representing at least 55% of global emissions to enter into force.
tackling climate change is not only one of the most important challenges of our time, but also an opportunity to build a more sustainable and competitive economy and more stable societies.
‒ i voted in favour of the measure as the paris agreement is a historically important achievement in the fight against climate change and multilateralism.
it guides global action to enable the world to avoid dangerous climate change.
the agreement recognises the need to stabilise greenhouse gas emissions as soon as possible and to achieve climate neutrality in the second half of the century.
in addition, the implementation of the paris agreement will be an essential contribution to global efforts to combat climate change.
‒ i vote against this report on the paris agreement on climate change.
the paris agreement is a copy of the failed kyoto agreement; both agreements are highly unfavourable to the industrialized countries and in reality are totally ineffective in combating climate change.
the agreement masks behind important environmental issues the enormous amounts of finance given to developing countries, such as the arab oil-producing countries, and it severely penalizes our companies, which will be subject to binding regulations and related charges, in order to favour the emerging companies of other countries, thus provoking unfair competition.
‒ i welcome the eu's ratification of the paris agreement on climate change as a bold and collective move to definitively accelerate the transition to a climate-resilient, zero-emission global economy.
in evidence, the agreements include long-term objectives to keep global warming below 2°c, including the submission of biennial gas inventories and the establishment of a global budget from 2023 to assess progress objectively against the commitments.
packages of provisions on climate finance and on reducing the vulnerability of our systems are also planned.
the parties are legally bound to adopt the domestic measures deemed most appropriate to achieve the agreed in conjunction with the european target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 40% by 2030. the entry into force of the treaty is crucial, especially in view of cop22 in marrakesh from 7 to 18 november.
‒ the european union concluded the paris agreement adopted at the 21st session of the conference of the parties (cop21) to the united nations framework convention on climate change held in paris in december 2015. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that this agreement represents a historic achievement in the fight against climate change and, in particular, in multilateral and collective action at global level towards a climate-neutral economy.
the eu had already set itself an ambitious target: reduce greenhouse gas emissions at national level by at least 40% by 2030. this objective is now reinforced in the paris agenda, which recognises the need to stabilise greenhouse gas emissions as soon as possible and to achieve climate neutrality in the second half of the century.
the paris agreement not only sets important targets, such as limiting global warming to 1.5°c, but also contributes to ensuring transparency and accountability in emissions management through a strengthened mechanism that includes several binding measures.
for example, the obligation for the parties to submit greenhouse gas inventories every two years and a system of technical expert review.
‒ i believe that the paris agreement is a valuable step forward in safeguarding the planet, in drawing the eu's attention to its short and long-term climate decisions and in achieving the zero-emissions target for the next 50 years adopted by the paris agreement.
‒ the european union's ratification of the paris agreement marks an important milestone in the global fight against climate change and allows the agreement to enter into force by the end of 2016. the paris agreement aims to keep global temperature rise well below 2°c and to continue efforts to keep it at 1.5°c above pre-industrial levels.
there is still a lack of serious commitment to tackling the climate impact of sectors such as agriculture and animal husbandry, and market instruments such as the ets remain a pillar of climate policies even at global level, despite the proven ineffectiveness of such a mechanism and the risk of only encouraging financial speculation.
‒ i voted in favour of this draft resolution because i share the aims of the agreement signed at the paris climate conference, in the context of combating dangerous climate change.
there are two objectives which i think the resolution addresses appropriately: the commission has already proposed a number of measures to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions from the use of fossil fuels.
‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the eu, of the paris agreement adopted under the un framework convention on climate change, because i consider the european parliament's consent to the conclusion of the paris agreement by the eu and its member states to be of paramount importance.
the paris agreement will enter into force as soon as at least 55 parties to the convention (representing an estimated total of at least 55% of global greenhouse gas emissions) have deposited their instruments of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession with the un.
there is now a growing national push for the paris agreement to enter into force in 2016. hence the importance of the eu as a whole ratifying the agreement, taking into account the union's leadership in the fight against climate change, its role in the kyoto protocol and its ongoing efforts for a universal treaty to follow.
an ambitious pathway was outlined in paris to limit global warming to well below 2°c by the end of the century and to make efforts to keep it within 1.5°c.
this is an important decision because, as science shows us, global warming is having a negative impact on all regions of the world.
the agreement provides for the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions through national commitment plans to be monitored and reviewed every five years in the light of progress.
it also provides for financing obligations to help poorer countries develop cleaner energy sources.
‒ cooperation among eu member states is important in order to address climate change at an international level.
the agreement is a basis for effectively combating climate change through the employment of sustainable methods and practices.
limiting global warming is one of the main goals, and european union member states are showing their interest and involvement in the matter by having set an ambitious target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40% domestically by 2030.
in writing.
‒ whereas the devastating effects of climate change, a scientifically proven historical reality, would become irreversible once the threshold of two degrees celsius of temperature rise is exceeded; whereas the heads of government of 195 countries have committed themselves to limiting this increase to 1.5 degrees; demonstrated the unfoundedness of the theory that environmental measures are a drag on growth and, on the contrary, convinced that climate change mitigation and adaptation policies represent a long-term investment; whereas the fall in greenhouse gas emissions in europe over the last 30 years has been matched by an increase in gross domestic product; the european union is committed to the development of a sustainable and inclusive society, based on the principles of sustainable development and sustainable development.
‒ i voted in favour of your proposal because i believe that ratification of the paris agreement is a prompt and effective response to the problem of climate change.
the climate agreement is a major challenge and, in the light of global problems, a global response is needed, from which the european union cannot be exempted.
the agreement will enter into force on the 31st day following the date on which at least 55 parties to the unfccc representing at least 55% of global greenhouse gas emissions have deposited their instruments of ratification.
the agreement sends a clear signal to investors, business, civil society and the political class that the global clean energy transition is vital for future generations and that resources must therefore move further away from fossil fuels.
i remain critical of attempts to leverage carbon-neutralizing technologies such as carbon capture and sequestration, not only because they are highly costly, but also, and most importantly, because they take us away from the real goal which should be the decarbonization of our production systems.
‒ the european parliament's approval marks the beginning of an important new chapter in the global fight against climate change.
it is a landmark milestone that sets the long-term target to combat global warming and to limit the temperature increase to below 2°c above pre-industrial levels.
i voted in favour of the agreement, hoping that the commitment made jointly by all parties will be translated into concrete and feasible strategies to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
finally, i believe it is essential that all the world's economies take equivalent measures to achieve this important environmental and health objective, while ensuring fair conditions of competition for our global competing industries.
cop21 is a starting point for tackling and trying to solve the problems of climate change, it cannot be considered an end point.
we have serious doubts about the management of co2 emissions that will be achieved through the use of financial instruments and we are disappointed that the polluting emissions from aircraft and ships have been excluded from the negotiations.
however, i think it's important that the great people of the world have come to a compromise by actually admitting that there is a climate emergency.
the damage to public and private infrastructure, businesses, homes, agricultural holdings and environmental assets in the affected areas has been severe, both in economic and human terms, causing casualties and material consequences that are difficult to resolve in the short term in a country already badly affected by the crisis.
i hope, therefore, that we can get rid of these toxins as soon as possible, which are weakening an increasingly polluted social environment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
i welcome, as provided for, the adoption of the urgency procedure for possible amendments to the various annexes to the regulation in order to ensure immediate responses to the destabilising climate of foreign fighters and isis affiliates pervading the union.
the objective of the latter agreement was to reduce and eliminate poverty, pursuing the objectives of sustainable development and the progressive integration of these countries into the world economy.
political dialogue, the sustainable development goals and the 2030 agenda must be at the heart of new agreements, including the establishment of monitoring, accountability and peer review mechanisms to monitor the implementation of the targets on a regular basis.
moreover, i believe the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals have to be the focus of the new agreement and its implementation has to be monitored.
it will have to pursue the objectives of sustainable development and ensure respect for human rights.
this new partnership will have to be based on the principles of mutual growth and development between the eu and africa; facilitating the industrialisation of the african continent and the development of agriculture and encouraging investment in innovation and sustainable development policies.
the future partnership should also provide for more effective joint action on conflict prevention, as a stable security environment is an essential condition for achieving the sustainable development goals.
i believe that the new agreement must be primarily a political project based on sustainability and reducing disparities.
only sustainable and lasting development can ensure an effective fight against poverty, which is the primary objective of eu-acp cooperation.
while the report remains in line with the principles set out in the cotonou agreement concerning the eradication of poverty, democratic principles, the assertion of the rule of law and support for more sustainable development, it does add a number of points on the principle of subsidiarity and respect for cooperation, including at regional level.
the monitoring, reliability and review mechanism between countries aimed at periodic monitoring of the implementation of the sustainable development goals is one of the aspects to be highlighted.
it is also important that the private sector can be heard during the policy-making process of programming so that it can play a key role in the development process and can then help to finance it, provided that investments are made with respect for people, property, the environment and in line with the un guiding principles on business and human rights.
i also hope that the new partnership will give greater attention to local small-scale producers and farmers and create a favourable environment for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (smes).
the acp-eu partnership remains an important scenario in the light of the sustainable development goals, the main objective of the cotonou agreement identified as poverty reduction and eradication and the values on which eu external action is based, such as respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, democracy based on the rule of law and transparent and accountable governance.
high-profile international issues such as the fight against poverty, climate change, the management of migration flows and the fight against terrorism need a common platform for the eu and the countries concerned to cooperate in solving problems that can only be solved jointly.
i hope that the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals (sdgs) will become the focus of a new agreement and that robust monitoring mechanisms will be established to ensure that the implementation of the agreement contributes to the achievement and promotion of the sdgs.
the post-cotonou agreement should be a framework political agreement, setting binding minimum requirements for epas (economic partnership agreements), in order to ensure continuity of constraints on provisions on good governance, respect for human rights, including of the most vulnerable persons, and respect for social and environmental standards.
at the same time, a monitoring, accountability and audit mechanism is required to ensure the implementation of the sustainable development goals in the member countries on a cyclical basis, with the relevant participation of acp and eu representatives from central government institutions, parliaments and regional and local authorities.
finally yet importantly, the report calls for all international actors to come together to fight and eradicate poverty and inequalities while promoting sustainable development.
since its foundation, the european union, recognising its historic responsibility and the need to promote a model of sustainable development in areas with high levels of poverty, has pursued policies of assistance and cooperation.
however, the effectiveness of cooperation needs to be improved and adapted to new international challenges that have an impact at all levels in the eu member states and the acp states, such as climate change, water, energy and food security, migration, health, security and financial issues.
in particular, i welcome the fact that the report stresses the key role that the private sector can play in the development process and the importance of creating a favourable environment for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in the context of the new partnership.
it is clear that even if the figures are better than forecast, a prolonged primary surplus of 3.5 does not appear to be sustainable.
cañete, his choice, is an oilman appointed commissioner for climate and energy.
together with commissioner bulc, we take this issue very seriously and we want to find sustainable and viable solutions to, firstly, ensure the normal crossing of borders for people and goods in calais and, secondly, to improve the management of migration flows in this area and the living conditions of the migrants present.
the choice to end the jungle makes sense if it responds to a human imperative, because in calais there are lives, stories, people who cannot be swept away, there is also energy, a hunger for life, which has driven so many men and women to embark on a long journey in which calais, although it seems a dead end, is only a stopover.
i was there myself, i met the drivers, i crossed the channel with them, and since then i am even more convinced that only a comprehensive and systematic approach can offer a sustainable solution; the commission is doing exactly that.
it also means having a sustainability of this opportunity, because it means making large-scale agreements with interrail, but also with other actors and not only with interrail, because we are interested not only in children going on holiday or traveling, but also in having the opportunity to access cultural and educational services and hospitality.
we cannot reduce the living, working, social, environmental and health standards of the european citizens.
we ratify cop21 and then we ratify treaties such as ceta which contain clauses on energy neutrality.
‒ the second of the sustainable development goals and its associated targets aims to end hunger and malnutrition in the world by 2030, by increasing the productivity of smallholder farmers, and by creating sustainable food systems that are resilient to climate change.
the european union must mobilise, together with the governments of developing countries, to launch immediate long-term financial investments in food and nutrition security and sustainable agriculture.
there is a need to reinvest in local food production, small-scale food producers and agro-ecological practices, including the establishment of social protection schemes to ensure access to nutritious food for all on an ongoing basis.
the fight against malnutrition is a key commitment of the european union towards the achievement of the global goals on sustainable development by 2030. over 159 million children are malnourished.
i support this resolution of the european parliament which is being proposed as a tool for sustainable development that can promote food security for the 795 million people who do not have enough food to lead a healthy and active life.
these interventions are essential to achieve sustainable and climate-resilient agricultural development, capable of feeding an expected global population of 8.5 billion people by 2030.
in writing.
in particular, this resolution reaffirms the importance of common actions addressing malnutrition in order to fulfil the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals.
long-term financial investments in food and nutrition security and sustainable agriculture must be made.
the main objective of the motion for a resolution is to ensure opportunities and thus increase the productivity of small farmers, creating sustainable food systems that are resilient to climate change.
by 2030, the food needs of a projected global population of 8.5 billion people must be met, while protecting the environment, biodiversity and the interests of smallholder farmers.
this can be done through a coordinated effort, by increasing the production of small farmers, by intervening in education, by implementing sustainable food chains, by improving governance, by defending women's rights, by improving sanitation and by stimulating microcredit.
i thought i would vote in favour of the measure, considering that the sustainable development goal and its associated targets aim to end hunger and malnutrition by 2030. by ensuring opportunities and increasing productivity for smallholder farmers, creating sustainable and climate resilient agriculture and food systems that can feed an expected global population of 8.5 billion people, while protecting biodiversity, the environment and the interests and well-being of smallholder farmers.
it called on the commission and the member states to pay attention to policy coherence for development in their activities and, consequently, to consider the consequences of their policies on trade, agriculture, energy and global food security.
member states need to step up their commitments to global food security, with a focus on sustainable agriculture and local food production, which must be given priority in taking action against malnutrition.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it aims to reaffirm the eu's commitment to food security in the world, in line with the achievement of the sustainable development goals.
coordinated action between governmental, non-governmental and private actors at global, national and local levels will ensure secure access to land and management of its resources for smallholders and sustainable and climate resilient food systems, while protecting biodiversity, the environment and the interests and well-being of smallholders.
these include export-based agricultural production at the expense of local biodiversity, and trade agreements that deprive local people of access to and management of the productive resources essential to their livelihoods.
furthermore, the same actors are urged to enhance food security and nutrition through better governance and accountability that are rights-based and take into account, on the one hand, sustainable agriculture, access to and use of natural resources, water, sanitation and hygiene, and, on the other hand, the creation and expansion of inclusive rights-based social safety nets, in particular for the most vulnerable and marginalised groups.
‒ the 2030 sustainable development goals are a milestone that europe cannot afford to miss, because providing more investment in food, ensuring the adequate development and strengthening of social safety nets and supporting climate-resilient agriculture could mean saving 7 million children from the threats of malnutrition and hunger by 2025. the stakes are too high.
each tonne of food waste avoided could also contribute to saving the equivalent of 4.2 tonnes of co2, reducing the use of natural resources.
i believe it is a priority to put an end to this problem by fighting food waste and supporting the poorest people.
the new vision of waste as a resource, the fight against food waste can play a central role.
nutritional security is one of the essential prerequisites for ensuring sustainable growth in our communities and the world at large, and that is why we must all commit ourselves to contributing to the achievement of these goals.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the achievement of sustainable development goal 2 (sdg2), which aims to end hunger and malnutrition by 2030, must be a priority for the european union and, in particular, for the commission.
sustainable development goal 2 and its associated targets aim to end hunger and malnutrition by 2030. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the disease, and calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the disease, including through the development of a european health and safety network.
we are talking about sustainable agricultural development policies with a focus on the environment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected.
a true circular economy, with the use of secondary raw materials and energy-efficient production facilities, can be the revolution needed to safeguard employment levels, while ensuring respect for the environment and the protection of workers.
where there is a clear incompatibility with the lives of workers and citizens, there must be an obligation to reclaim and convert the area which can combine employment and health, production and the environment.
however, there is not enough emphasis on important issues such as the circular economy, energy efficiency in manufacturing plants, respect for the environment and protection of workers.
the new eu industrial policy should be based on ambitious and clear energy efficiency, resource and climate objectives, establishing a life-cycle and circular economy approach.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe our industry has to face several challenges, such as reindustrialisation, the transition to sustainability and the creation of quality employment.
this is an urgency that has emerged over decades and requires the building of a resilient and future-oriented european industry, capable of transitioning towards sustainability while maintaining its identity as a social market economy through quality employment.
an industrial plan that aims to invest in creativity, skills, innovation and sustainable technologies, making the most of, rather than continuing to squander, the human capital that europe is rich in.
after the severe crisis, it was necessary to start again with investments and actions to support the eu's economic recovery and sustainable growth.
the proposal adopted today calls on the commission and the member states to subsidize public investment in research and development and technology, subject to compliance with environmental and health standards, in order to promote skills and know-how, which is a key prerequisite for increasing the competitiveness and sustainability of strategic sectors.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the resolution stresses the need to stimulate the real economy through a reindustrialisation policy which aligns trade policy with the energy transaction and sustainability, creating quality jobs and, in this case, promoting and intensifying anti-competitive measures in relation to the situation of caterpillar and alstom.
i have heard a lot of hypocrisy from the council today, which should know that in today's geopolitical environment there is a fundamental rule: the voids are created and filled, either by us or by others.
after kyoto it was a long process and objectively today we have a global, legally binding agreement to really fight climate change on an international level.
first, a strengthened framework for transparency, details for a global budget, some additional guidance on indcs, an understanding of the differentiation of loss and damage, as well as talking about climate finance, with inclusive multi-level governance as well as a mechanism to facilitate implementation and promote compliance.
the resolution underlines the good progress of the european union in meeting its 2020 greenhouse gas emission reduction targets and renewable energy targets and the efforts that need to be increased in order to meet the 2050 targets.
i would like to stress an important passage in the resolution: we regret that the international air and sea transport sector is not mentioned in the agreement, despite being the second largest emitter of greenhouse gases.
parliament therefore stressed the need to implement a series of strategies to reduce emissions in this sector.
ultimately, efforts at climate diplomacy will be needed to ensure that the negotiations are positive and produce real progress towards our common goal.
we need to look at the glass half full of this tool to hold out hope that we can still change a process that is much bigger than us, hoping to see at least a slowdown in climate change.
according to a very recent unep report, food production is second only to fossil fuel use in terms of emissions liability.
and, as the honourable member has pointed out, we are talking about food production based on waste and the destruction of resources, which is typical of advanced economies, and certainly not about agriculture which is supposed to feed the hungry.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this debate comes on the day after the european ratification of the paris agreements on combating climate change was approved by a very large majority, although unfortunately not unanimously as we would have liked.
it was a historic moment - many have already said this - for climate action, but one that we cannot help but also appreciate as symbolic.
i do not want to go back to what we have already discussed, but i would like to stress one point: to make the transition to a low-carbon society possible, a simple policy of reducing emissions into the atmosphere is not enough if we do not at the same time encourage and support a paradigm shift in our development model, that is, if we do not move, as we have repeatedly said to ourselves and as we really have the opportunity to do, to a circular economy model, which means efficient use of resources, investment in energy efficiency and renewable energy, which alone can hold together sustainability and growth and make us comply with the paris agreement.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the marrakesh negotiations must continue along the lines of the key elements of the paris agreement, in particular with regard to strengthening the framework for transparency of climate mitigation actions, defining the 2018 revisions of national commitments, creating mechanisms to address climate loss and damage and promoting compliance with the rules of the climate agreement.
the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the paris agreement on climate change and its impact on the environment, including the impact of the paris agreement on climate change and its impact on the environment, and the impact of the paris agreement on climate change and its impact on the environment.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
the crisis of confidence in politics - as has been mentioned - has reached worrying levels, sometimes because of a lack of clarity about our activities, very often, but sometimes also because, as in the recent speech by my colleague, we tend to create a climate of constant suspicion towards ourselves, that we are elected representatives of the citizens who must instead transmit trust and respectability.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the absence of harmonized and uniform rules on the use of food contact materials represents a risk to public health, the protection of the environment and the proper functioning of the internal market.
three years later, we have to face the hardening of the sentence, extended to fifteen years, and the deterioration of the health of the rwandan leader, while the political climate in preparation for the 2017 elections is likely to be damaged by the pressure on journalists and the media, and in the country there are even talks of changes to the constitution to allow the president to run for a third term.
with this resolution we want to keep the matter alive and we call on the rwandan government to guarantee the right to a fair trial and to ensure that the opposition forces have sufficient space, so that freedom of expression is guaranteed and there is a greater pluralistic climate in the next elections.
overall, promoting a conducive environment for civil society and the protection of human right defenders are key issues in eu relations with sudan.
we have, in the eu, been at the forefront of calling for a speedy agreement on cessation of hostilities, humanitarian taxes and an inclusive, comprehensive and transparent national dialogue process in a conducive environment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we voted in favour of this report, an important report which contains a series of calls and recommendations, but also criticisms, to deal with what are the next steps in combating climate change at global level.
but it is essential for me to refer to those which are the serious dangers contained in this text and which form part of the union's pillar in combating climate change, namely the ets.
the proposal for a global ets is something we clearly challenge the implementation of, because the ets as a market instrument is not a sufficient instrument to tackle environmental and climate problems.
it is essential for us to make this statement: the ets is a system that does not work and that simply encourages financial speculation on carbon and certainly not an improvement in the conditions of the planet.
‒ the resolution touches on all aspects of climate change, highlighting the positive effects, including economic and innovation, of policies to reduce emissions and promote renewables, and focusing on medium and long-term objectives and sectors to be involved in the reduction effort.
‒ global warming is a fact and human activities are the main cause of this phenomenon observed since the mid-20th century.
the eu's ratification of the paris agreement is an important step towards reducing greenhouse gas emissions, but only its entry into force and subsequent implementation will mark a definitive and irreversible acceleration towards a climate-resilient, zero-carbon global economy.
the resolution voted by parliament today on cop22 in marrakech calls on the eu and its member states to continue to play an active part in the high-ambition coalition, committing to accelerating progress in the negotiations and supporting the moroccan presidency in promoting renewable energy and adaptation measures in the global fight against climate change.
the union has the experience, capacity and global reach to lead in creating the smart, clean and resilient infrastructure needed to achieve the global transition fostered by the paris agreement; it is for this reason that it must now also support the efforts of developing countries in their transition to societies that are low-carbon, more inclusive, safe and socially and environmentally sustainable.
in this respect, i support the european parliament's resolution and in particular the priority given to energy efficiency and sustainability in the fight against climate change.
in order to meet the emission reduction targets set by the paris agreement, increased energy efficiency and the use of renewable resources not only have the potential to reduce pressures on the environment in terms of emissions and resource use, but also have the potential to drive sustainable growth in the global economy.
moreover, given the level of emissions from raw material extraction and waste management processes, the transition to a circular economy model, based on reuse and recycling, is of paramount importance.
in this field, existing experience should be strengthened and developed further, with a view to highlighting the sustainability features of investments.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the implementation of the paris agreement and the 2016 un climate change conference in marrakech (cop22), a report containing a number of important calls and recommendations to address the next steps to combat climate change globally.
although the text is generally agreed, the continued role of the ets as one of the eu's main instruments for combating climate change and its adoption on a global scale is a matter of serious concern to the five star movement.
the ets mechanism, by handing over to the logic of the market the way in which to reduce co2 emissions into the atmosphere of the sectors covered by this system, has proved to be totally ineffective in solving environmental and climate problems.
this system has in fact encouraged financial speculation in carbon, and the creation of an international bond market is another opportunity for the financial market, to the detriment of the planet.
‒ i endorsed the resolution on the implementation of the paris agreement and the 2016 un climate change conference that will take place in marrakesh with the aim of supporting the moroccan presidency in its focus on the contribution of renewable energies.
‒ the warming of the climate system is unequivocal, climate change is a reality today and human activities are the predominant cause of warming.
all countries should accelerate the transition to net-zero greenhouse gas emissions.
developed countries must drastically reduce greenhouse gas emissions beyond their existing commitments to avoid large-scale negative emissions.
in this context, the paris agreement on climate change is a historic achievement in the fight against climate change.
to limit the increase in global average temperature, rapid decarbonisation is needed, giving priority to the phasing out of coal emissions.
‒ today i voted in favour of the resolution in question to ensure that the international climate conference cop22, to be held in marrakech in november, can transpose the paris agreement from a plan of adoption to a plan of action.
it is essential that the commission and the member states maintain the commitments agreed under the paris agreement, in particular with regard to the eu's contribution to climate change mitigation and adaptation, as well as its financial support and the transfer of green technologies to the poorest areas.
in this regard, the eu should support member states, regions and cities in implementing the paris climate agreement by providing financial support through the european fund for strategic investments, the cohesion fund and the regional development fund, but also through specific instruments such as the natural capital financing instrument and the private finance instrument for energy efficiency under the eib and life funds.
the challenge of climate change will be to translate climate commitments into financiable projects.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which addresses all aspects of climate change, recalling the positive effects of policies to reduce emissions and promote renewables by 2020, and putting the medium and long-term objectives and sectors that need to be involved in the reduction effort back at the centre.
‒ i support the resolution, as cop22 in marrakech is a focal point for the international debate on climate change.
in fact, through research and innovation we will be able to achieve sustainable and competitive production, since a reduction in environmental pressures would be accompanied by a reduction in waste, contributing to an increase in productivity.
it will therefore be essential to make concrete commitments on climate finance.
the fact is that climate change is a reality with which we must cope, and we must therefore set a new direction for growth and stability for all mankind.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because, in addition to calling for the ratification of the paris agreement, it addresses important issues for the daily lives of all european citizens, such as the reduction of harmful emissions and the commitment of all countries to keep the increase in global average temperature under control.
the resolution also highlights the important role of research and innovation in climate change, adaptation policies and efficient technologies: a global commitment is therefore needed to encourage and focus investment in this area by developing close international scientific collaboration to spread clean and sustainable energy technologies in both developed and emerging countries.
‒ with the entry into force of the paris agreement on climate change, it has become necessary to establish a concrete roadmap to accelerate and scale up the immediate response to the challenges recognised by the paris agreement.
the un climate change conference in marrakesh identifies some key actions to achieve the goals outlined in the paris agreement.
for example, to contain the global temperature increase to within an average of 1.5 °c, a decarbonisation pathway and a transition to low-carbon investments are needed.
in addition, all greenhouse gas emitters, including the eu, commit to reducing emissions in their ndcs every five years and to take this into account in national development planning.
‒ we are very pleased to have voted in favour of ratifying the cop21 climate agreement, allowing the paris agreement to enter into force in time for cop22 in marrakech next november.
by giving the eu the green light to ratify, europe has reaffirmed its leading role in actions to safeguard the planet and its capacity for concrete leadership with regard to global socioeconomic and environmental strategies.
the commitment will now be to meet the ambitious targets set for 2030: reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 40% compared to 1990 levels and invest in substantially increasing renewable energy and energy efficiency.
we must therefore continue our joint commitment to global action to create new opportunities for the planet: a more inclusive and sustainable, healthier and safer future.
‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on the implementation of the paris agreement and the un climate change conference in marrakech (cop22) because i shared the ep's call for developed countries, in particular the eu, to drastically reduce greenhouse gas emissions beyond their commitments to avoid as far as possible large-scale negative emissions, as the technologies have not yet been proven to be effective, socially acceptable, economical and safe.
i therefore hope that other countries will follow the example of the ep and ratify as soon as possible and commit to implement the paris agreement on climate change, as it is a historic achievement in the fight against climate change achieved through the multilateral methodology.
when implemented, it will provide a definitive and irreversible acceleration of the transition to a climate-resilient and zero-climate global economy.
this report constitutes the mandate for our delegation in the negotiations to be initiated on the key elements of the paris agreement, including: a strengthened framework for transparency, global budget details, additional guidance on indcs, an understanding of differentiation, loss and damage, climate finance, inclusive multi-level governance, and a mechanism to facilitate implementation and promote compliance.
the resolution underlines the eu's good progress in meeting its 2020 greenhouse gas emission reduction targets and its 2020 renewable energy targets.
parliament also stressed the need to implement a series of strategies to reduce emissions in the transport, aviation and maritime sectors, and the parties to the unfccc must intervene, including through icao and imo, to develop a comprehensive policy framework to provide an effective and rapid response.
‒ considering the importance of the rapid implementation of the paris agreement, of the correlation between economic growth and the war on global warming; we are also convinced that the european union must take a more active role in the fight against climate change, and that the european union must be able to take a more active role in the fight against climate change.
the text, which recognizes, among other things, the causal link between the phenomenon of migration and climate change, the proportionality of which is constantly increasing, is in our favour.
we also share the call on the commission to bring european environmental objectives into line with the commitments made in paris.
‒ while it is true that the commitment to mitigating global warming is a priority, it is important that this objective is pursued not by hindering economic growth but by acting as a catalyst for creating new jobs in a sustainable way.
‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution setting out the european parliament's position on the implementation of the paris agreement and the 2016 united nations climate change conference in marrakech.
the resolution urges developed countries, in particular the eu, to drastically reduce greenhouse gas emissions beyond the commitments already made to avoid large-scale negative emissions.
it welcomes the paris agreement on climate change as a historic achievement in the fight against climate change, as an ambitious, balanced agreement representing a decisive turning point towards global and collective action at world level for the protection of the environment.
the resolution also stresses the importance of research and innovation in tackling climate change in a cost-effective way and stresses the need to promote universal access to sustainable energy in developing countries.
the resolution, for which i voted in favour, takes the issue of climate change into account, starting with the positive effects, including in terms of economic and innovation, of policies to reduce emissions and promote renewables by 2020. we must continue negotiations on the key elements of the paris agreement.
furthermore, they are encouraged to commit to accelerating progress in the negotiations and to support the moroccan presidency in promoting the contribution of renewable energy and adaptation measures to the global fight against climate change.
i believe that timing and joint efforts are essential to combating climate change.
the eu can play an ambitious and central role in this area, taking on the responsibility of leading by example on an issue as important as climate change.
europe must start working on climate and energy immediately to align its objectives with the internationally agreed target of keeping the global average temperature rise to below 2 °c.
there is a broad consensus that the lack of uniform measures at community level in this area could jeopardise public health, environmental protection and the proper functioning of the internal market.
the report shows that the sectors of environment, transport, internal market and services were the ones where the highest number of infringements occurred in 2014. however, the number of formal infringement procedures has decreased over the last five years: this improvement is due to the introduction of the 'eu pilot' procedure, a mechanism which opens up a constructive dialogue between the commission, the 'guarantor of the treaties', and the member states found to be in breach of european rules, before a formal infringement procedure is opened.
the three sectors most affected by infringement proceedings in 2014 were the environment, transport and the internal market for services, but the last five years have seen a general decrease in proceedings, also thanks to an effective policy of dialogue with member states.
i appreciate the work of mrs hautala, who has highlighted in particular cases of infringements for the non-transposition of eu directives and regulations in the fields of the environment, transport and the internal market, which touch on issues crucial to the lives of so many of our citizens.
the report shows that the sectors of environment, transport, and internal market and services are the ones with the highest number of infringement procedures in 2014. at the same time, however, the report shows that there has been a decrease in the number of formal infringement procedures over the past five years.
the analysis carried out shows that the sectors where serious shortcomings persist are the environment, the internal market in transport and services.
the report shows that the environment, transport, the internal market and services remain the three sectors with the highest number of infringement proceedings opened in 2014, despite the fact that the number of proceedings has decreased over the past five years.
, i therefore decided to vote in favour of the objection, reaffirming the need for the commission to draw up a comprehensive proposal on gmos as soon as possible in order to carefully assess the environmental and health impact of these technologies and to establish a new procedure for their authorization.
furthermore, the draft commission implementing decision is not consistent with union law because it is not compatible with the objective of protecting human health and the environment when gmos are deliberately released into the environment for purposes other than placing on the market within the community and when gmos are placed on the market within the community as such or contained in products.
the draft commission implementing decision is not consistent with union law as it is not compatible with the objective of directive 2001/18/ec which aims, while respecting the precautionary principle, at the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states and at the protection of human health and the environment when genetically modified organisms are deliberately released into the environment.
for these reasons, i believe that the present proposal is not in line with the objective of ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, and the environment.
i therefore decided to vote in favour of the objection, reaffirming the need for the commission to draw up a comprehensive proposal on gmos as soon as possible in order to carefully assess the environmental and health impact of these technologies and to establish a new procedure for their authorization.
according to the efsa gmo expert group, the possible evolution of resistance to cry1f protein is a cause for concern as the evolution of resistance could lead to the alteration of pest control practices, with potentially harmful consequences for the environment.
furthermore, the draft commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law because it is not compatible with the objective of protecting human health and the environment.
the cultivation of this gmo would bring with it environmental threats that are difficult to manage and would undermine actions to improve environmental risk assessment for all gmos, as already unanimously requested by environment ministers in 2008. no gmo should be authorised until democratic scrutiny of commission decisions has been strengthened and properly reflects the views of the majority of member states, meps and european citizens.
‒ although efsa has stated that the marketing of maize seed 1507 is not harmful to human health, food safety or biodiversity, i believe that the risk assessment is incomplete.
in my view, it is a matter of priority to take account of the precautionary principle in approximating the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states and in protecting human health and the environment, at least until risk assessment methods have been improved.
efsa, the european union food safety authority, has recognised the toxicity of this gmo to butterflies and moths and warned of possible deficiencies in the tests carried out on maize 1507. the negative consequences of the introduction of such organisms into the wild for both the ecosystem and human health are unpredictable.
as a spokesman for the five star movement, i believe in a europe free of genetically modified organisms, which really protects the biodiversity of agri-foodstuffs.
in view of the possible high risks to farmers and the environment, i decided to vote in favour of the objection, reaffirming the need for the commission to draw up a comprehensive proposal on gmos as soon as possible in order to carefully assess the environmental and health impact of these technologies and to establish a new procedure for their authorization.
unfortunately, there are still persistent shortcomings in the implementation of post-market environmental monitoring; and efsa is forced to constantly reiterate its monitoring recommendations, in particular the need to provide more detailed information on the sampling methodology, to reduce the risk of bias in the selection of the questionnaires for farmers, as well as to ensure the identification of all relevant scientific publications.
furthermore, the draft commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law, as it is not compatible with the objective of ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market.
for these reasons, i believe that the present proposal is not able to ensure a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment.
the resolution therefore calls for the withdrawal of the commission's draft implementing decision as it is not in line with union law, being incompatible with ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests in relation to genetically modified food and feed.
the lack of long-term studies on nutrition and toxicity and insufficient risk assessment led me to vote in favour of the objection, reaffirming the need for the commission to draw up a comprehensive proposal on gmos as soon as possible in order to carefully assess the environmental and health impact of these technologies and to establish a new procedure for their authorization.
furthermore, the draft commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law, as it is not compatible with the objective of ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests.
‒ i believe that the commission's recommendations are not adequate and that a new legislative proposal should be put forward which takes greater account of the concerns frequently expressed at national level and which do not relate only to issues related to the safety of gmos for health or the environment.
the resolution therefore calls for the withdrawal of the commission's draft implementing decision as it is not in line with union law, being incompatible with ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests in relation to genetically modified food and feed.
in view of the possible health risks, i therefore voted in favour of the objection, reaffirming the need for the commission to draw up a comprehensive proposal on gmos as soon as possible in order to carefully assess the environmental and health impact of these technologies and to establish a new procedure for their authorization.
following this vote i hope the commission will submit a new legislative proposal that will address other national concerns not related only to the safety of gmos for health or the environment.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the right to vote on the proposals for directives on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers.
the draft commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law, as it is not compatible with the objective of ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests.
‒ i believe that the commission's recommendations are not adequate and that a new legislative proposal should be put forward which takes greater account of the concerns frequently expressed at national level and which do not relate only to issues related to the safety of gmos for health or the environment.
in my view, it is a matter of priority to take account of the precautionary principle in approximating the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states and in protecting human health and the environment, at least until risk assessment methods have been improved.
we must now create a climate of mutual trust between iran and the european union.
we have common economic interests, and i am thinking in particular of the fight against climate change.
energy cooperation can play a significant role in diversifying the sources of supply for the european union.
the union can support iran in its various environmental challenges, including water scarcity, the fight against desertification.
today we are operating in a heterogeneous environment, not only in terms of the definition of the phenomenon but also in terms of the provisions for combating it, which are even absent in some countries, which makes it more difficult to combat organized crime and corruption.
the issue of corporate liability for serious human rights violations in third countries, which are still governed by ineffective rules, affects many of the fundamental human rights, such as the protection of health and the environment or the rights of workers, children and women.
the agenda includes the report by mr andrás gyürk, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the eu strategy on liquefied natural gas and gas storage (2015/2059(ini)) (a8-0278/2016).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of a european union strategy on liquefied natural gas would help to achieve a rapid transition to a sustainable, secure and competitive energy system and to end dependence on external gas suppliers.
i believe that the european union and its member states should focus more on renewable resources and energy efficiency improvements, seeking to maximise the benefit of renewable generation capacity and limiting investment in new infrastructure for the transport and storage of lng to areas of low interconnection and to supplying the most vulnerable member states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, effective control of fishing activities is essential to ensure the sustainable exploitation of marine biological resources and to maintain a level playing field between the fleets of the european union.
this is important, not only in terms of treatment, but in the very end fundamental for ensuring sustainable fishing.
i believe that sustainable transport links should be seen as a factor in promoting the security and stability of the eastern border of the european union and the western balkans.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, good evening commissioner vella, i am glad you are here tonight because i would like to talk about access to environmental justice, starting with a concrete case.
i therefore ask myself, and i ask you, and i ask you, commissioner, what space do we give to environmental requests coming from below and is access to environmental justice really guaranteed in europe, because obviously in italy, it is not so at present.
the main causes of this sad phenomenon are the enormous spread of childhood obesity, environmental emergencies and poor investment in health care, often linked to economic disparities between the various italian regions.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you commissioner timmermans, and i thank mr in 't veld for his report on such an important subject: the environment.
furthermore, considering that accidents have become a priority issue in the transport policy of the european union, together with the other undesirable effects of transport (such as pollution and co2 emissions), i believe it is essential to collect and disseminate data on accidents, fatalities, serious injuries and environmental damage relating to all modes of transport.
sustainability and proportionality must be the founding criteria of the customs code.
the largest part of this amount will go to the european schools to ensure that everyone who decides to grow up embracing our cultural heritage has the safest and healthiest environment possible.
the text indicates several areas which should be considered in order to start a fruitful cooperation with iran: the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment.
‒ i endorsed the resolution on the eu strategy toward iran after the nuclear agreement with the aim of strengthening our political dialogue and developing both trade and sectoral cooperation in specific fields such as energy, environment, aviation safety and migration.
i hope that the adoption of this report will help to promote the gradual expansion of cooperation in a climate of confidence, especially for the benefit of the people of iran and the european union.
i am convinced that cooperation with iran offers great potential in areas such as trade, environmental protection, aviation safety and academic exchanges.
the joint comprehensive plan of action, the international nuclear energy agreement with iran, concluded in vienna on 14 july 2015, represents a historic breakthrough in diplomatic relations and a success of the european modus operandi.
it should be noted that investment opportunities are present in several areas, primarily in the energy sector, given the great potential of renewable energies.
‒ i voted in favour of the measure because i believe that the nuclear agreement (jcpoa) with iran has been an important achievement for european diplomacy and that it is now also europe's responsibility not only to ensure its full implementation, but also to support the opening of eu-iran relations to the benefit of both sides by strengthening bilateral and multilateral cooperation in a climate of mutual trust.
i voted in favour of this resolution because, on the one hand, it takes account of the opportunities for cooperation between the eu and iran - for example, the promotion of interparliamentary dialogue, the establishment by the eeas of an iranian task force to coordinate iran's different lines of action, the contribution to the eu's energy security and the increase in trade to achieve iran's target of an 8% annual growth rate; reiterates the european union's opposition to the death penalty, irrespective of the case and the circumstances, and stresses that the abolition of the death penalty is a key objective of the eu's foreign policy and human rights.
the report highlights the different possible areas of cooperation with iran, in particular trade, environment, university, aviation security.
i therefore share the view expressed in it that this agreement is a success of multilateral diplomacy, although it must be implemented, but it can open the way to strong cooperation between iran and the eu in many areas, such as energy sources, trade, environmental issues, aviation safety.
for iran to fully benefit from the lifting of sanctions, it is also important that the obstacles related to economic and fiscal policy, the business environment and the rule of law are overcome.
the report outlines areas of possible cooperation with iran, such as trade, environmental protection, aviation security, academic exchanges, etc.
it is in the interest of both parties to develop closer cooperation in areas such as the environment, migration management, transport and energy, education and humanitarian issues.
‒ the report makes proposals and recommendations to the european institutions and member states to strengthen the fight against corruption and organised crime, including: the call for a european definition of a mafia-type criminal organisation, following the example of article 416a of the italian criminal code; the recognition of the key role of whistleblowers in the fight against corruption and malpractices; the call on the member states and the commission to improve and ensure transparency in public procurement through the establishment of an e-procurement system, by creating blacklists to include companies with proven links to organised crime, by facilitating the rotation of public officials and by preventing those convicted of crimes related to organised crime or corruption from participating in elections or working in the public administration; measures to combat tax havens; the commission has also proposed to increase the penalties and introduce new categories of crime within the so-called environmental crimes.
migration is a global phenomenon, not just a european one, triggered by a variety of factors including economic, social, political, labour, security and environmental conditions around the world.
‒ considering the scale of the phenomenon, which today involves 65 million refugees and some 244 million migrants; considering the complexity of flows, and in particular their transnational nature, assessing the wide spectrum of causes, from climate change to war, and their common denominator, hunger and despair; we shall vote in favour of this report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted with conviction in favour of this resolution, and as my colleague said before, i am absolutely in favour of the work that the united nations is doing on a binding treaty that lays down the obligation for multinational companies to act responsibly and to ensure their contribution to sustainable development.
i was rapporteur in this parliament on a report which focused on the issue of a symmetry between the binding nature of the protection of investment and investor rights in trade treaties and the non-binding nature of the protection of human rights, the protection of labour rights, environmental standards.
as that report says, this parliament must increasingly urge the commission to make it compulsory to respect human rights, labour and environmental standards.
‒ this report addresses aspects related to human rights, labour and environmental protection.
it should not be forgotten that an economic activity can only be successful if it respects and includes those who participate in it, so ethical commitment is part of the value chain by envisaging the use of new paths and competitive levers consistent with sustainable development for the community.
companies are required to accept, uphold and implement within their sphere of influence a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and the fight against corruption, by committing to these principles and integrating them into their business activities on a voluntary basis.
i welcome european trade policies in developing countries which help to strengthen the trading system while promoting human rights and environmental protection.
the united nations global compact provides that enterprises are required to accept, uphold and implement, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and the fight against corruption, and are required to implement these principles by integrating them into their business activities.
in this particular case it is essential to remember that companies have an obligation to respect a set of fundamental values in the field of human rights, labour standards, respect for the environment, the fight against corruption and social responsibility.
businesses are among the main actors in economic, financial and trade globalisation and can therefore play an important role in promoting human rights, democracy and environmental standards.
‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr corrao, which deals with human rights, labour and environmental protection.
unfortunately, the hard data tells us that: 1) gas demand in europe is declining and infrastructure is underutilized, 2) the mediterranean basin can and must become a global leader in the development of carbon free energy resources, 3) we cannot ignore the environmental hazards to human health caused by regasifiers and storage activities, 4) there are specific cop21 targets that require the abandonment of fossil fuels.
we believe, on the contrary, that it is urgent and a priority to concentrate all political and economic efforts in support of renewable energy, energy efficiency and sustainability.
‒ the report is pro-fossil energy and completely ignores the issues of strategic dependence and infrastructure lock-in, made even more perverse by the considerable under-utilisation of existing european facilities (on average 25%).
gas is presented as a relatively clean fuel, thus ignoring the problems of leakage and its contribution to the greenhouse effect, and the major problems posed by unconventional extraction methods.
this is an important text which touches on the crucial subject of energy supply and the development of the european energy strategy.
in the near future, this dependence is expected to increase, and european action should therefore be directed both at actively pursuing the development of its domestic conventional gas resources, such as those discovered in cyprus, and at facilitating the rapid transition to a secure and sustainable energy system.
only through the creation of a real energy union, with a single energy market and a common energy policy, will it be possible to guarantee real energy security for the continent.
‒ i do not agree with the report on the eu strategy on liquefied natural gas and gas storage and i believe that it moves even further towards the objective of promoting a european energy union, another attempt to control the institutions from above on our territories.
‒ the ratification of the paris agreement has created the conditions for the global energy transition, making the shift towards a low-carbon economy irreversible.
in this transition period, the adoption of a common energy strategy would help to support a rapid transition to a sustainable, secure and competitive energy system, while limiting dependence on external gas suppliers.
with a view to exploiting the union's internal resources for greater energy self-sufficiency, the report presented by the european parliament today stresses that liquefied natural gas represents an opportunity for europe in terms of increased competitiveness in the short term.
harnessing the potential of lng and its storage would make the european system more diversified and flexible and contribute to a reliable gas supply, including to the most energy-vulnerable regions.
‒ i endorsed this resolution on an eu strategy for liquefied natural gas and gas storage with the aim of developing a resilient energy union.
indeed, the energy union has the objective to make the eu more independent from the dependence on external gas suppliers.
as a matter of fact, this resolution supports the integration of lng and gas storage within the framework of the internal energy market and i strongly believe better coordination of national energy policies is needed in order to achieve it.
‒ gas can play a significant role in the union's energy system, in industrial production and as a source of heating in buildings and in support of renewable energy over the coming decades, pending the eu's achievement of its greenhouse gas emissions, energy efficiency and renewable energy targets and the transition to a low-carbon economy, in which the role of gas will gradually decline in favour of clean energy.
however, several member states are now dependent on gas from abroad for more than 90% of their average annual needs: this poses serious limitations in terms of geopolitical security, strategic security, economic security and environmental security.
closing the infrastructure gaps for gas storage and transport of liquefied natural gas is a key step towards strengthening the union and increasing solidarity and energy efficiency.
the member states must support this process by promoting the commission's action, the completion of cross-border gas networks and the implementation of the latest package of agreements for the completion of the single energy market.
the report highlights the benefits of using lng for a rapid transition to a sustainable, secure and competitive energy system and to end dependence on external gas suppliers.
however, it notes some critical aspects, including the infrastructure aspect, highlighting the need to carefully analyse the alternatives and options for lng supply from a regional and environmental sustainability perspective before deciding to build new infrastructure, in order to improve energy security and ensure the most efficient use of existing infrastructure.
‒ the report is pro-fossil energy and completely ignores the issues of strategic dependency.
gas is presented as a relatively clean fuel, ignoring the problems of leakage and the consequent very strong greenhouse effect; in addition, the aspects related to non-conventional extraction methods are not taken into account.
the increase in lng production expected in the coming years and the consequent fall in the price may indeed represent an opportunity for the union in the field of energy security which we must seize.
this could benefit those member states which have only one source of energy supply.
if we can achieve this, we can also gain an environmental advantage, as lng can go alongside renewable sources to effectively replace more polluting conventional fuels for both road and maritime transport.
‒ i vote against this report on the energy package proposed by the european commission.
‒ given the rationale for having a forward-looking energy and climate policy, i am voting in favour of the report.
the eu committed itself at the paris climate conference to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 40% by 2030, and in line with these targets, a strategy on liquefied natural gas (lng) and gas storage represents a real opportunity for europe.
however, it must be recognised that the european internal energy market is currently far from integrated due to insufficient interconnections.
‒ i voted in favour of the measure because i share the eu's strategy on liquefied natural gas and gas storage and because an internal energy market that addresses and integrates these issues more effectively will help achieve the goal of an energy resilient, secure, competitive and integrated eu, also through more effective use of existing regional structures.
‒ the eu strategy on liquefied natural gas and gas storage is one element of the energy union, which aims to give concrete expression to the eu's ambition to achieve a rapid transition to a sustainable, secure and competitive energy system and to end dependence on external gas suppliers.
i believe that liquefied natural gas, gas interconnections and gas storage are important elements and can help to eliminate any kind of energy isolation of member states and regions.
in this context, it is all the more important to support the most vulnerable countries in their efforts to diversify their sources and supply routes through the establishment of new lng terminals, distribution and interconnection systems that can ensure the safety of maritime supply routes and strengthen member states' energy security by reducing demand through efficiency measures.
the report contains several references to binding climate and energy parameters, set as minimum targets for 2030, which do not fall within the scope and objectives set out in the report itself and therefore undermine its intent and scope.
‒ i supported the european parliament's resolution on an eu strategy on liquefied natural gas and gas storage because i believe this is a key issue for the eu's energy future, given the increasing international rigidities and difficulties and the need to honour the paris agreement and put in place coherent policies to combat global warming.
i think, however, that this choice cannot be in conflict with the need to avoid settlements in areas of the highest environmental and landscape value already classified as sites of community interest, nor must it be detrimental to investment in renewable energy.
there is no doubt that liquefied natural gas requires adequate infrastructure and technology, but member states have various facilities which must be fully exploited, including jointly and across borders, before new infrastructure can be built which can be harmful to the environment and displease citizens.
the report on the eu strategy on liquefied natural gas and gas storage is part of the package outlining the future of eu energy policy, presented in february by the european commission.
the report argues that the promotion of an internal energy market integrating liquefied natural gas and gas storage will help achieve the objectives of a resilient energy union.
the issue of energy and diversification of sources of supply is a central issue at this time, as we shape policies for the next decades, when we will be committed to implementing regulations to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to combat climate change.
our energy policy needs to focus on an integrated, secure, competitive and sustainable system.
gas plays a strategic role in the eu energy system that aims to reach energy security.
‒ we welcome the parliament's report on the european commission's energy security package, which contains the necessary proposals to prepare europe for the global energy transition and presents new tools to deal with possible disruptions to energy supply.
the question of energy security is the basis on which an energy strategy for the union can be built and is one of the priorities of this parliament and the juncker commission.
the most important measures include a reduction in energy demand, an increase in european energy production, further investment in a fully integrated and functioning energy market, and diversification of sources, routes and suppliers.
the package of measures is important because it follows the adoption of the paris convention of 12 december 2015, a global agreement to combat climate change.
by approving this measure, parliament reaffirms its commitment to respect for the environment and the protection of the terrestrial ecosystem.
‒ i voted in favour of your proposal because i believe that gas can play a significant role in the union's energy system in the coming decades, in industrial production and as a source of heating in buildings and in support of renewable energy.
whereas the eu is not yet able to reap the benefits of an integrated internal energy market due to the lack of sufficient interconnections and coherence and the incomplete implementation of the third energy package; i have decided to vote in favour of this proposal, since liquefied gas represents a great opportunity for the eu in terms of increased competitiveness.
‒ the report welcomes the commission communication entitled 'an eu strategy on liquefied natural gas and gas storage'; it considers that an internal energy market fully integrating liquefied natural gas and gas storage will play a significant role in achieving the ultimate goal of a resilient energy union.
i believe that the issue of energy security should be at the heart of national energy policies and the eu's common strategy and that cooperation between member states in this area should be implemented in accordance with the principles of solidarity and trust.
i think it is necessary for parliament to approve the following report, as i am convinced that an internal energy market which fully integrates liquefied natural gas and gas storage will certainly have a positive impact on the eu's economy and industrial policies.
‒ the report is pro-fossil energy and completely ignores the issues of strategic dependence and infrastructure lock-in, made even more perverse by the significant under-utilisation of existing european facilities, which are on average 25% used.
it presents gas as a relatively clean fuel, ignoring the problems of leakage with the corresponding (very enhanced) greenhouse effect, and the major problems of unconventional extraction methods.
‒ discussing energy and promoting european development and coordination policies are central actions for security of supply and the fight against climate change.
when we invest in energy, we are investing in our future.
i also believe that a long-term sustainable energy mix, in addition to renewables, will also include natural gas, which, due to its characteristics and its wide availability, is crucial for the full achievement of the post-cop21 climate objectives.
the aim is therefore to improve europe's energy security, firstly by further diversifying our sources of supply and secondly by ensuring adequate flexibility in the system through the use of storage mechanisms.
gas is presented as a relatively clean fuel without taking into account the problem of leakage, which significantly increases the greenhouse effect, and unconventional extraction methods such as fracking, which certainly cannot be called sustainable.
‒ the fisheries sector is one of the first to be concerned with the sustainable management of seas and oceans, and its full and active participation in the definition of control rules is therefore crucial.
only simplified and clear legislation on control procedures can ensure an effective fight against illegal fishing, which is so damaging to our precious marine ecosystem.
however, in order to avoid any penalty or distortion of competition, it is essential to harmonise controls in order to ensure sustainable development in line with a high level of protection and improvement of the quality of the environment.
the harmonization of controls is therefore aimed at ensuring greater safety for european producers and products, while at the same time ensuring the sustainable exploitation of marine biological resources and maintaining a level playing field between european fleets.
‒ i voted in favour of the measure because it highlights the importance of ensuring effective control of fishing activities to ensure the sustainable exploitation of living marine resources.
‒ the own-initiative report was drawn up in preparation for the next so-called 'control regulation' (regulation (ec) no 1224/2009 establishing a community control system for ensuring compliance with the rules of the common fisheries policy) which is expected to be presented by the commission in the second half of 2017. the text of the proposal stresses the importance of ensuring effective control of fishing activities in order to ensure the sustainable exploitation of living marine resources and maintain equal working conditions among european fleets.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be given the opportunity to present their opinions on the draft directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
in addition, the maintenance of sustainable transport links should be seen as an increasingly important factor in promoting the stability and security of the eu's eastern border and the western balkans.
i voted in favour of the report because it is oriented towards the principles of sustainability and accessibility in the development of transport infrastructure.
however, the construction of new long-distance, regional and urban transport and the modernisation of existing ones are priorities for the fair and sustainable development of european territories and the eu's single market in terms of employment, growth and economic competitiveness.
i therefore fully share the idea of inclusive and sustainable growth promoted by the report 'improving the connectivity and accessibility of transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe'.
‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on improving the connectivity and accessibility of transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe because i believe it is essential that europe has high-quality, modern links between the member states, which ensure the improvement of the quality of life of our citizens on the one hand and the achievement of the eu's environmental objectives on the other.
however, some gaps remain, and the eu must work to fill them by investing as much as possible in transport modes with a low environmental impact.
i remain convinced that the completion of the ten-t programme and public investment in transport is a key element in the pursuit of smart and sustainable growth, because it creates jobs in the short term, while having a positive impact on several other sectors of the economy, and has an immediate impact on the image of the eu itself in the eyes of its citizens.
the need to respect the protection of the environment and biodiversity is also underlined, and useful and urgent measures are called for to eliminate discrimination against people with disabilities caused by architectural barriers in the management of transport.
the aim is to achieve consistent and sustainable growth in rail transport, which will help to reduce the climate impact, air pollution and road accidents.
for regional airports, it is requested that the construction of new infrastructure be dependent on traffic demand and that the use of eu funds be strictly limited to economically viable and sustainable projects.
the implementation of structural reforms to overcome this crisis will therefore be made easier in a climate of calm dialogue.
the commission is also making sure that it acts in parallel and jointly with the national bodies of each member state in a climate of harmonious and mutual cooperation, without one stepping on the feet of the other.
as with economic or environmental parameters, europe must rightly be able to set up a system for monitoring compliance with the obligations of the member states arising from the lisbon treaty and the charter of fundamental rights annexed thereto.
the parliament's proposal, which will now have to be discussed with the member states, is a good starting point: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
employment remains the top priority, but targeted investment in research and new technologies is needed to foster sustainable growth, optimising the use of resources, and launching a modern post-2020 cohesion policy that respects the true nature of an investment instrument and that is actually valid for all regions of the european union.
the council must now turn its words into action, ensuring a realistic, credible, coherent and sustainable budget for the next years of the multiannual financial framework.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
madam president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, as chairman and rapporteur of the envi committee, i would like to stress the importance of implementing multiannual programmes which are our responsibility: the third union programme of action in the field of health, the environment and climate action programme, expenditure on climate change, including in the light of the paris agreement and its subsequent implementation.
i would also like to stress the importance of horizon 2020 for research projects in the fields of environment, climate and health in order to stimulate innovation and develop the green economy which is essential for employment and development.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
it is worth emphasising the need to support european union spending on efficient infrastructure and sustainable transport modes, also paying attention to noise reduction.
diseases that seriously threaten the health of our plants, posing serious risks to biodiversity and consequently to the competitiveness of our agricultural and forestry sector.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today we have new rules to curb the influx of pests such as xylella, perhaps also resulting from increased trade and climate change.
this regulation has passed, it is a step forward for the protection of agriculture, its traditions and the environment.
this is possible thanks to defined preventive measures, stricter import regimes, compensation commensurate with the real value of the plants destroyed and restrictive conditions for the protection of the environment.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the new regulation is an important step forward in the fight against organisms harmful to plants and thus in the protection of biodiversity.
we need to have comprehensive agreements with those parts of the world which share our values, which want social protection like we do, which want environmental protection like we do.
but, if they read the explanations and the assurances that we have given, the clear indications on social protection, on environmental protection, on assurances that disputes will be dealt with by judges in a way that is in accordance with our legal criteria; if they have studied this perhaps they can come to a conclusion of this matter.
i trust that after today’s talks in belgium, the climate around ceta and maybe also around the next free trade agreements will change for the better.
although there is no more political act than this, the document represents the triumph of technicalities and eurocracy: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good example of the need to ensure that the environment is protected.
in addition, funding for the fisheries sector must not be reduced, as this sector has an important economic, social and environmental dimension in the blue economy.
‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017. i believe that many of the policy priorities, such as effectively managing the migration and refugee crisis, promoting competitiveness through job creation and pursuing the sustainable development goals, are supported by adequate financial resources.
the expenditure headings in the text, and specifically those devoted to competitiveness for growth and employment, social and territorial economic cohesion, sustainable growth, security, administration and the reserve for emergency aid, are in line with european policies.
we will also focus on the competitiveness of our business sector, economic, social and territorial cohesion, support for agriculture, protection of the environment and health, and the safety of our citizens.
‒ i voted against the resolution on the approval of the eu budget for the year 2017 because, although some political will and priorities such as the strengthening of funds for the migration emergency are sustainable, a distorted use of european funds remains.
the resolution adopted by parliament today, which i support, strongly calls on the council to ensure a credible, coherent and sustainable budget for the remaining years of the current programming period.
while i sympathize with the situation of the workers affected by these measures, i cannot support supporting, even indirectly, an energy sector - such as the petrochemical sector - which is at odds with the objectives of environmental and energy sustainability, which have always been central to the policy of the five star movement.
although helping workers in difficulty has always been one of the movement's priorities, in this case there was a risk that by voting in favour, a message of support would be given to energy production sectors that would instead be converted.
i am always in favour of the egf applications, but in this case, given the nature of the companies involved and their particular activities, i thought it more appropriate to abstain, because while i do not want to penalise the workers, i do not want to send a message of support, even if indirectly, to these energy production sectors, which do not reflect my priorities in this area.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this new regulation is the result of months of constant work with the rapporteur and my colleagues, but above all it is a great success for the defence of agriculture and the environment.
yes, because, after imposing measures that were simply impracticable to combat the bacterium, the commission, through commissioner andriukaitis, has initiated an infringement procedure against italy, denying it the possibility of carrying out an environmental impact assessment.
but environment commissioner vella does not see it that way.
in reply to a question i put, you stress that plans for the eradication of organisms harmful to plants of agricultural interest must be subject to environmental assessment, not excluding emergency cases.
it is therefore clear that a regulation introducing stricter import arrangements and restrictive conditions for the protection of the environment is needed.
in a globalised world, with continuous trade and climate change, the scale of risks is constantly increasing and requires the use of innovative tools that are able to respond effectively to new challenges.
‒ the adoption of a new regulation on protection measures against harmful organisms of plants can be a good starting point for more effective action to combat the growing phytosanitary problems, in particular those caused by the spread of harmful organisms from distant countries, which damage crops and the environment of our territories.
the instruments contained in the agreement will therefore enable the european union to develop a more proactive policy to protect biodiversity and the competitiveness of our agricultural sector.
attention should be paid to the risk of introduction of plant pests into the union territory, which has increased due to the globalisation of trade and climate change.
in addition, all information on the possible economic, environmental and social impacts of plant pests should be made available to the public.
‒ the phytosanitary factor is crucial for sustainable and competitive agriculture, horticulture and forestry, but also important for the protection of biodiversity and economic services.
this regulation, which will replace a 15-year-old directive, contains favourable elements and measures such as: containment and prevention measures in cases where eradication is no longer possible, increases compensation for affected areas, ensures greater transparency through the creation of an ad hoc emergency register, is mentioned for the first time among the conditions for identifying a priority test of social and environmental conditions and in particular refers to tree species of great importance in terms of landscape and cultural or historical heritage for the union (secular olive trees), removes the reference to efsa as the main scientific interlocutor .
in the light of this dramatic event, i also believe that it is necessary to amend the basic legislation to deal with the risks associated with the arrival of new pests on the territory of the union as a result of the processes of globalisation and climate change.
‒ i fully support the proposal as italy, thanks to its climate, enjoys a particularly flourishing territory, but it is also sadly exposed and vulnerable to the risk of introducing new pathogens, whose presence has increased due to trade and climate change.
the environmental damage and economic loss to farmers caused by the xylella parasite to olive groves in the southern member states must not be repeated.
my vote in favour of the sant report is motivated by the conviction that stimulating domestic demand and investment is a priority if we are to effectively meet the challenges posed by globalisation, the digital revolution, ageing and climate change.
the commission must in general endeavour to implement all measures which can reduce the obstacles to investment in such crucial sectors as transport, energy and communications, while at the same time promoting a reduction in the tax wedge on labour in the member states.
for this reason, i support the growth and investment approach advocated in the report on the european semester, with the aim of creating a favourable climate for both public and private investment.
the european semester 2016 focused on a limited number of priority areas, highlighting the need for socially sustainable reforms focusing on the growth of small and medium-sized enterprises and training.
indeed, i believe more flexibility is needed in europe nowadays, while fiscal sustainability shall be guaranteed by member states.
‒ the european parliament notes that the eu economy will grow less than economic forecasts for 2016. it therefore stresses the need to increase growth, cohesion, productivity and competitiveness; believing that the lack of sustainable investment and the shortcomings in completing the single market are depriving the eu of its full growth potential.
it notes that monetary policy alone is not sufficient to stimulate growth if sustainable investment and structural reforms are lacking.
stresses the importance of completing and implementing the banking union, developing the capital markets union to create a stable environment for investment and growth and creating an inclusive single market; the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas:
in writing.
the first concerns the need for sustainable investment to boost demand on the continent: this will help to sustain growth potential.
the second important element is job creation through the implementation of sustainable budgetary policies to create a better working environment.
i therefore vote in favour of this report, which i consider to be balanced in its approach to a reform of the european semester which takes account of the importance of sustainable growth, investment and the creation of quality jobs.
the state of the eu economy over the last two years remains worrying, which is why the ep report focused on a number of key points: the importance of long-term investment, which is essential to consolidate sustainable growth pathways, to promote smes, to increase investment opportunities and access to credit.
to this end, it is important to address the structural challenges of demography, labour market and taxation, which must be complemented by efficient public spending, in particular on socially and environmentally sustainable investment.
‒ this report, which i wanted to support, highlights the urgency of boosting economic growth in europe through investment, implementing sustainable structural reforms and reducing the economic and social disparities that have emerged in different areas of the eu.
i am glad to see that the emphasis is on the need for sustainable growth rather than on reforms to further precariousise the labour market.
the fiscal policy of the states and the eu investment policy should therefore, in a balanced and complementary manner, make up for the shortcomings and foster a climate of confidence that attracts additional resources from private investment.
once again, parliament is missing an important opportunity to question the sustainability of the euro and its role in preventing countries from regaining competitiveness, to point the finger at the arbitrary application of rules by the commission, which is hard and inflexible with weak countries and lenient with strong ones, and to deplore its inaction in relation to the excessive german surplus, which is responsible for instability and imbalances throughout europe, and to highlight the negative link between the absence of public investment and absurd budgetary constraints.
mainly for that reason, i believe both the food industry and consumers have to choose products that comply with health and environmental standards.
citizens are often exposed to unhealthy food and as chairman of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i believe it is the duty of the institutions to ensure that this is regulated.
trans fats (also called hydrogenated fats, abbreviated tfa) are fats that have undergone the process of hydrogenation, that is, the addition of hydrogen to the carbon double bonds of unsaturated acids.
we know that there are at least 100 million volunteers in europe today, of all ages and social and personal backgrounds, engaged in humanitarian, educational, educational, cultural, environmental and sporting activities.
over the past 20 years, we have supported 100,000 volunteers, 100,000 young people who have embarked on a path of solidarity and who have responded with concrete actions to social, humanitarian and environmental challenges.
this ambitious programme, which started as a pilot project in 1996, has so far involved as many as 100,000 young people who have chosen to invest their energy and time in solidarity projects free of charge.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, young people are a source of strength and energy, and europe and the member states must invest in them through long-term structured strategies which can have an impact not only in terms of active participation and social inclusion, as the report emphasizes, but also and above all in terms of employment, training and self-employment.
it is desirable that the cap post 2020 includes modernisation and investment instruments that ensure competitiveness in rural areas by focusing on agri-food, tourism, energy and services.
finally, it is important to support the european semester guidelines on investment, innovation and quality job creation, ensuring fiscal policies towards sustainable growth.
following the instructions of the committee on budgetary control (cont), i have today decided to vote in favour of the marinescu report granting discharge to the director of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing.
‒ parliament gives discharge to the director of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014 and approves the closure of the accounts of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. the joint undertaking's annual accounts present fairly the financial position of the joint undertaking as at 31 december 2014, as well as the results of its operations and cash flows.
fusion research is aimed at developing a source of energy that is safe, unlimited and environmentally responsible.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2014, following the opinions of the court of auditors on the reliability of the 2014 accounts and on the legality and regularity of the transactions, which certified the correctness of the expenditure incurred and recorded by the director of the european joint undertaking for iter.
‒ considering that the objectives set at the iter council meeting of 18 and 19 november 2015 have been largely achieved and that four of the six milestones assigned to fusion for energy (f4e) for 2016 have already been achieved, with regard to the proposal for a european parliament decision on the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2014, i would like to make a positive statement.
for two years now, it has been in the hands of daesh, which has imposed a climate of terror, persecution and violence in a vast area including the nineveh plain, tal afar and sinjar.
‒ i fully supported the joint resolution of the political groups on the situation in northern iraq, in particular the commitment of europe, the external action service and the entire international community to provide practical and diplomatic support for a sustainable and inclusive post-war settlement of the region.
for centuries these communities have coexisted peacefully, in a general climate of pluralism and cooperation.
its expertise and financial resources will be indispensable in the reconstruction of an inclusive and sustainable iraq, guaranteeing participation and fundamental rights for every community and every citizen.
the resolution adopted by parliament today, which i support, expresses deep concern at the deterioration of the security environment in the area surrounding the union, and beyond its neighbourhood, and at the role that nuclear weapons have again assumed in military doctrines.
europe has a duty to strengthen disarmament and non-proliferation policies and international cooperation in the peaceful use of nuclear energy.
it supports the objectives of the npt in laying the foundations for global efforts to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons, to promote the safe and secure use of civil nuclear energy and to pursue the goal of a world without nuclear weapons.
it also believes that the conditions for security and sustainable nuclear disarmament can only be achieved through a multilateral process.
it supported the work of the international atomic energy agency in promoting cooperation in the nuclear field, in favour of the safe and peaceful use of nuclear technologies, and encouraged the continued promotion and strict implementation of the convention on the physical protection of nuclear material, urging those countries which had not yet ratified the convention to do so.
through its three pillars - nuclear disarmament, non-proliferation and the peaceful uses of atomic energy - the treaty aims to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons and to promote cooperation between states on nuclear energy for civilian purposes.
the international climate has worsened considerably in recent years and we are witnessing provocative behaviour on the part of nations which threaten the use of nuclear technology with unacceptable levity.
i think that is where we need to concentrate our efforts and i also think that we need to create a business-friendly environment, a start-up-friendly environment in the european union.
from 2020 onwards, a radical reform will be needed that puts farmers, quality and the environment at the forefront.
a new model of agriculture, more sustainable, which focuses much more on supporting and developing small and medium-sized farming enterprises, must be planned.
in line with the rich diversity of our territory, it is precisely by providing aid for the cultivation of local varieties and the breeding of indigenous breeds that regional employment is promoted and biodiversity is maintained.
such aid must, of course, be focused on sustainability and profitability of the enterprises in order to create and maintain jobs.
access to wider markets for these local excellences must also be facilitated and therefore improving their promotion and marketing would have significant effects on the whole economy through consumer confidence in them and the overall demand for goods generated by environmental heritage.
this scenario is aggravated by the uncertain political environment and the possible pursuit of a line of economic unilateralism by the new us administration.
the commission is also calling for further initiatives, including the proposal for a european union savings account and the encouragement of sustainable and, in particular, green investment.
the undercapitalisation of some of them and the risks that this entails, but also the unfair behaviour towards investors, have created a negative climate which leads many people to be seriously worried and therefore to have a non-linear and non-transparent relationship with the banks.
in addition, special attention is paid to environmental sustainability, promoting compliance with the cop 21 objectives and encouraging the decarbonisation of transport.
i believe that the environment is a very important and sensitive issue which needs to be given serious attention.
only a serious investment policy - mr othmar is right about this - a serious investment policy, based on and aimed at large tangible and intangible infrastructures, the environment, the energy transition and human resources, can reduce debt, increasing wealth, jobs and, therefore, state revenues.
at the moment when you say that you have growth, growth in europe is due to monetary policies which have significantly devalued the currency and because of a situation linked to energy prices, which are very low.
the long-term plan aims to maintain cod stocks above levels that can produce the maximum sustainable yield, thus promoting a fishery that is profitable for fishermen and sustainable for the ecosystem.
‒ i support the long-term plan as i believe it is essential to implement the principles of the new common fisheries policy and to support its implementation, in order to avoid the mismatches that have been created in the market due to the application of unequal and tendentious national regulations, as well as the frequent damage to biodiversity and the ecosystem due to lack of controls.
in fact, i believe that the amendment of regulation (ec) no 1342/2008 in order to improve and clarify its provisions is of fundamental importance to ensure the implementation of a sustainable plan for cod fisheries and related activities, in line with the principles of the new common fisheries policy.
‒ the new regulation aims to ensure the long-term sustainable exploitation of cod stocks in accordance with the principle of maximum sustainable yield.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the first priority must be to support investment at community level and to develop socially sustainable programmes of structural reform involving all the member states.
the ecb has contributed to the climate of confidence by countering risks to the integrity of the euro area, mainly related to the events in greece over the past year.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
‒ while a large number of member states have decided to continue to cut defence spending over the past 30 years, global challenges have increased due to the rise of phenomena such as international terrorism, hybrid threats, cyber and energy insecurity and organised crime.
all the duplication, overcapacity and obstacles which lead to an estimated waste of eur 26.4 billion in public procurement today must be reduced by jointly purchasing resources and pooling non-lethal materials such as transport vehicles and aircraft.
the threats of terrorism, organised crime and climate change are common fears to the entire world population.
in other words, by implementing joint training and education activities in addition to operational ones, it will be possible to eradicate cancers from the countless metastases such as terrorism, cyber and energy insecurity and organised crime.
in particular, among the proposals i have supported i stress the push towards the creation of multinational forces and an operational headquarters for military operations and measures towards the rationalisation of expenditure, so as to eliminate unnecessary waste, duplication and overcapacity in the defence industry.
in fact, the security of our states is today threatened by emerging phenomena including terrorism, economic, cyber and energy instability, organized crime, and, most recently, climate change.
i believe that cooperation with third countries on sensitive data, energy and information security, the fight against organised crime and cooperation between armed forces are the major challenges facing the european institutions.
in addition, special attention is paid to environmental sustainability, promoting compliance with the cop21 objectives and encouraging the decarbonisation of transport.
as the environment is a very important and sensitive subject which requires a lot of attention and as the report contains many good points, i have decided to vote in favour.
‒ passenger water transport already plays a key role in connecting the different regions of the european union, an area which, due to its geographical characteristics, the presence of many rivers, islands and coasts, still has enormous potential for the growth of sustainable transport systems.
the action of the community institutions today must aim at developing policies addressing aspects of safety, environmental standards, crossborder cooperation and competitiveness, as well as quality of service, passenger rights and barrier-free accessibility.
‒ i supported this resolution on unleashing the potential of waterborne passenger transport because i think that this kind of transport policy shall overcome the administrative burden arising from cross—border shipping in order to increase the efficiency of the sector, obviously by bearing in mind the need to reduce the environmental impact.
better use of available waterborne passenger transport capacity could not only help reduce congestion and carbon dioxide emissions, but also improve air quality and the overall supply of transport services.
the report shows how better use of pvt can make the european transport sector more efficient and sustainable.
a reduction in road passenger transport and a fair increase in passenger transport by water can not only moderate traffic congestion, but can reduce co2 emissions by improving air quality.
the eu's shape offers an exceptional opportunity for sustainable water transport, making it imperative to use the existing excess capacity in terms of infrastructure and vessels.
in addition, we are well aware of the environmental impact of water transport, so we intend to set out precise rules for sustainable tourism.
‒ i voted in favour of the measure because i believe that passenger water transport (pwt), including sea ferries, inland waterway ferries, barges and cruise ships, plays a very important role in the development of a more efficient and sustainable european transport sector, supported by policies that address aspects of safety, environmental standards, cross-border cooperation, competitiveness as well as quality of service, passenger rights and barrier-free accessibility.
today, there are still many commuters on the roads, creating traffic jams, congestion and delays on the urban roads of our continent: better use of available passenger water transport capacity could not only help to reduce congestion and polluting emissions, but also to improve the overall supply of transport services for european citizens.
‒ passenger water transport is among the most sustainable modes of transport and better use of its capacity could not only help reduce congestion and co2 emissions, but also improve air quality and the overall supply of transport services.
there is certainly further scope to make ships cleaner and more energy efficient through investment in research and innovative technologies, for example in solar and wind energy, shore-side electricity supply and alternative fuels.
‒ waterway transport is more environmentally sustainable as it offers opportunities to reduce pollution.
i therefore urge the eu to continue its efforts to improve the safety performance of ferries and the development of technologies that contribute to energy efficiency.
‒ strengthening the development of alternative transport, such as maritime transport, would be a great opportunity for the union to bet more effectively on key objectives for europe such as sustainable development, the contribution to growth through the revival of new tourism-related opportunities and concrete contributions to the reduction of co2 emissions for an effective improvement of air quality.
for these reasons, i supported and voted in favour of the report on 'unlocking the potential of passenger transport by inland waterway', convinced that the future of european transport must be based on integrated multimedia, social and environmental sustainability and the resources brought to bear by new technologies.
in a continent with many navigable rivers, lakes, streams and waterways, i find it crucial that transport on these navigable waterways should complement and possibly surpass road transport, helping to reduce co2 emissions and reduce the problem of urban traffic.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because it continues the positive series of decisions to take measures to reduce co2 emissions in line with the cop 21 agreements which we all supported.
for these reasons, it is important to invest more in the capacity available for passenger transport by water (tpva), which could contribute to reducing co2 emissions and improving air quality.
if supported by safety policies, environmental standards, quality of service and passenger rights, the tpva could represent the main path towards a more efficient and sustainable european transport sector.
supporting the report means paving the way for reduction of co2 emissions and improvement of air quality and betterment of aquatic transport systems.
by contributing to this project, european citizens can look forward to enjoying from even more sustainable, easier, and quicker maritime transport that protects both their environment as well as their health.
‒ i voted in favour of my colleagues' proposal because i believe that passenger water transport (pwt), including sea ferries, inland waterway ferries, barges and cruise ships, has a key role to play in a more efficient and sustainable european transport sector.
they are means of transport which not only do not harm the environment but also protect the passengers themselves.
unfortunately, today a large number of people travel by road, which increases urban pollution, whereas the use of these means of maritime transport would reduce co2 emissions but also improve air quality.
it could contribute to improving environmental well-being by reducing emissions of co2 and other pollutants harmful to our health.
european funds should fully contribute to the development of new passenger waterways and new technologies that further improve their safety, energy efficiency and accessibility for persons with reduced mobility.
through my work as shadow rapporteur for the epp i have brought the following issues to the rapporteur's attention: the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the development of the environment and the protection of the environment.
in order to achieve a more efficient and sustainable european transport sector, i believe that the adoption of this report represents a step forward in simplifying and improving common rules and in the implementation of future policy initiatives in this area.
competitiveness, environmental sustainability, safety and cross-border cooperation, quality of service, passenger rights and barrier-free accessibility are the key aspects of this initiative.
‒ the issue of climate change posed by human activity is a threat that must be addressed by europe in a timely manner.
given the potential of this sector, i believe that the european parliament should move along two legislative lines: on the one hand, work on proposals that benefit the safety of citizens on inland waterways; the commission will also be encouraging research funding to modernise the sector and help reduce air pollution.
it is our duty to support the european transport networks with the least impact on the environment and to make choices in the interests of citizens to develop the economies of peripheral regions, first and foremost by improving the quality of public transport services.
the geographical situation of europe, with its long coastlines and its many rivers and islands, offers extraordinary opportunities for sustainable passenger transport by water and, given that this type of transport in the fields of cabotage, sea and inland ferries, cruises and tourism plays a fundamental role in connecting the different regions of the european union, i believe it is a key factor in strengthening cohesion.
the s&d group succeeded in putting the emphasis on safety, developing sustainable services that respect the environment and providing more efficient services for people with reduced mobility.
since 2011, with the commitments made in busan, the eu has moved to define four principles for assessing the effectiveness of aid: ownership of the development priorities of developing countries; focus on results through actions that reduce poverty and inequality in developing countries in a sustainable way; inclusive development partnerships based on mutual respect and transparency and shared responsibility.
specific interventions remain crucial to help alleviate poverty, strengthen national resilience to environmental and health challenges, and empower local communities.
ethical and environmentally sustainable development is therefore of paramount importance for effective development and must be considered a priority over any trade agreement.
all available development tools must be used to overcome poverty, reduce inequalities, provide essential public services and support good governance, while pursuing the objectives of sustainable development and measuring the effectiveness of funding on the basis of reliable results.
i also believe that sustainable development policies should be implemented through cooperation with local actors in order to promote good governance and to empower the institutions of partner countries.
‒ i voted in favour of the report because it stresses the importance of development aid and sustainable financing for cooperation, while also promoting an approach that goes beyond aid itself.
in my view, in order to achieve real effectiveness of aid, it is necessary to keep in mind: ownership of the development priorities of the countries concerned, focus on results through actions that reduce poverty and inequality in developing countries in a sustainable way, inclusive partnerships based on mutual respect and, finally, transparency and shared responsibility for the results achieved.
the eu needs to continue along the path of identifying increasingly innovative approaches to sustainable development, together with the definition of the roles and responsibilities of the various actors.
‒ i voted in favour of the preda report, as it recognises the important role of the european union in development aid and the need to step up efforts in this area in order to meet the commitments made under article 208 tfeu and to do more to achieve the sustainable development goals.
the forthcoming second high-level meeting of the global partnership for effective development cooperation (gpedc) provides an opportunity to overcome the critical issues identified so far and to identify innovative approaches to sustainable development, clearly addressing the issue of the roles and responsibilities of the various development actors in a differentiated manner.
the report identifies innovative approaches and strategic principles to foster sustainable development and clearly addresses the issue of the roles and responsibilities of the various actors involved in cooperation projects.
‒ development aid plays an essential role in the fight against poverty and the elimination of inequalities; however, such aid cannot effectively achieve its objectives if it is used in contexts where there is no peace, respect for human rights and the rule of law, an impartial judicial system, social, environmental and labour standards and safeguards, and inclusive decision-making processes.
in parallel, the second high-level meeting of the global partnership for effective development cooperation (gpedc), which is tasked with monitoring the implementation of the commitments agreed in busan, will be held in nairobi at the end of november 2016. the report adopted today reaffirms the importance of official development assistance and sustainable financing for development, and analyses the successful implementation of these global commitments.
it also contains suggestions on how to continue efforts to make european development cooperation increasingly effective and to achieve the objectives of sustainable development and the addis ababa action programme.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, trade and the environment are closely linked.
one could argue that the expansion of international trade and growth is one of the causes of global warming.
however, it is important to acknowledge that globalisation has contributed to the spread of technologies with a low environmental impact and better standards.
we have therefore put this question to clarify the commission's strategy and the union's offensive and defensive interests in the field of environmental goods.
the first, conceptual, concerns the nature of the agreement itself and, in particular, the objective of contributing to the fight against climate change.
we fear that the agreement may betray the results of the paris conference, because of the lack of a definition of 'environmental goods'.
we wonder how the environmental credibility of the agreement can be safeguarded by including some products which can hardly be classified as environmentally friendly or energy-efficient.
increased imports from countries with less stringent regulations could lead to an increase in emissions.
i would remind you that when we talk about dumping we are not referring only to the economic dimension but also to the social and environmental consequences.
the liberalization of certain products such as bicycles, whose manufacturing process in europe meets the most stringent standards, could paradoxically have a negative ecological impact.
europe is a leader in environmental goods.
in conclusion, the current state of the environment requires us to take concrete action against climate change.
we cannot afford to lose this opportunity to demonstrate that trade is also a tool for sustainable development and can therefore contribute to improving the lives of people and the planet.
the agenda includes the report by julie girling, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants (com (2013) 0920 - c7-0004/2014 - 2013/0443 (cod)) (a8-0249/2015).
every year in europe 490,000 people die from smog or pollution in general in our cities.
you also have to explain why you have excluded methane from the list of polluting gases, despite the fact that it is a greenhouse gas 21 times more harmful to the environment than co2.
one thing is certain: 400 000 citizens die every year as a result of air pollution.
air pollution does not stop at the borders of individual states with walls, which is never good.
this directive will significantly reduce pollution across the european union, with realistic and achievable targets by 2030. we would have liked an even more ambitious text, but i consider this an important step forward in a wider strategy which must involve all the productive sectors: industry 4.0, green agriculture and more sustainable mobility.
a smart environmental policy does not reduce jobs but creates new and better-qualified ones.
this is not a final step, but a decisive contribution to a more sustainable development model.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the agreement reached with the council on the reduction of national emissions of certain air pollutants will make it possible to halve by 2030 the number of premature deaths caused by toxic pollution.
the authorization given to member states to regulate emissions according to seasonal temperatures or to compensate for the reduction in emissions in one sector by the higher emissions produced in another sector raises a number of concerns.
– mr president, honourable members, one year after the paris agreement, the conference in marrakech last week clearly marked a new phase in global climate governance.
at the outset, let me highlight that the european union has shown its strong commitment to climate action by ratifying the paris agreement on 5 october 2016. following the consent given by parliament, the ratification of the agreement by the eu, together with seven member states, triggered its entry into force on 4 november 2016 and confirmed the key role of the european union in the multilateral process.
this all confirmed the determination of the international community to continue moving forward, with a transition towards a low emission and climate-resilient future.
other elements to be mentioned are the global stock take, the sustainable development mechanism concerning markets, non-market approaches and the compliance mechanism.
secondly, progress was made on enhancing action and transparency before 2020, including on the predictability of climate finance flows to developing countries; on loss and damage, namely the review of the warsaw international mechanism; on technology development and transfer, capacity-building mechanisms, methodological issues, response measures, as well as on measures concerning gender and indigenous peoples.
thirdly, the global climate action agenda was another key part of marrakech.
the action agenda builds on the growing momentum from stakeholders to mobilise global action in the water sector and in the areas of oceans, disaster risk reduction, agriculture, forestry, transport, energy and human settlements.
and finally, the conference made a high-level political statement, the marrakech action proclamation, which reflects the continuous political commitment towards the implementation of the paris agreement and reaffirms the willingness of all participants to fight against climate change and to support sustainable development.
this enabled the european union to stay unified as we forge ahead on global climate action.
it is a statement of global unity, confirming that the parties remain committed to climate action post—paris and the transition to a global low—carbon economy.
solidarity with our international partners is critical if we wish to maintain global momentum on climate action, and the parties welcomed the adoption of the 2020 climate finance roadmap as progress towards the goal of mobilising usd 100 million by 2020. member states have also shown their commitment to supporting the most vulnerable countries in dealing with the impacts of climate change.
several european union member states announced that new contributions to the adaptation fund, which now stands at usd 81 million, directly supporting developing countries in their efforts to cope with the effects of climate change.
this enabled countries, states, regions, cities, the private sector and ngos to come together under the global climate action agenda to showcase inspiring climate action initiatives to reduce emissions, transition to a low—carbon economy and support our partners in the mitigation and adaptation efforts.
the european union also demonstrated its determination to making significant efforts to scale up support to climate relevant action.
in 2015, the european union and its member states provided eur 17.6 billion to help developing countries tackle climate change.
in the current uncertain geopolitical setting the european union must, more than ever, remain steady on its course to a low—carbon, energy-efficient future.
in addition to strengthening our strategic partnerships, we must continue to demonstrate to the world our commitment to climate action by implementing our ndc.
it is a central element in achieving broad and sustainable development goals as well as the european union priorities on investment, competitiveness, circular economy research, innovation and energy transition.
therefore, we will also shortly come forward with a package under the title smart and clean energy for all europeans – a package of proposals which will put energy efficiency first, will reinvigorate our global leadership in renewables and deliver a fair deal for european consumers and citizens, as well as business and industry.
together with existing proposals on the table, this package will ensure a comprehensive and coherent climate and energy policy framework up to 2030. it will deliver on our contribution to the paris agreement and will make bigger steps forward towards our overall vision for an energy union.
in conclusion, honourable members, we have achieved marked progress this year on global climate action.
we can safely say that the progress made in marrakech is proof that the world will move forward in the fight against climate change.
the transition to a clean economy has never begun and the european union will continue to be the pioneer and leader towards a sustainable and competitive economy.
irreversibility, because the fight against climate change through the development of a sustainable economy is a mechanism that can no longer be stopped.
cooperation, because it is only through support, investment and knowledge transfer between developed and developing economies that the fight against global warming can be won.
now, with the united states likely to be less motivated and less decisive at the negotiating table, it is up to the european union to take the lead in negotiations and policies against global warming.
the newly formed 2050 pathway platform, which the european union has readily joined, needs to be pushed hard to make it an opportunity to strengthen member states' climate policies by integrating them into a broader and more effective plan.
but alas, the world's pollution has not diminished either.
because it's obvious that if you move production from one place to another and you don't act on the real causes, you've moved pollution but you haven't reduced pollution.
and so pollution continues to exist and is evidenced, alas, by the very actions that are being planned to spend over 100 billion dollars to reduce the environmental impact.
the invitation i make in the package you are studying is to use these resources to bring production back to italy, to bring production back to europe, to bring production back to where there is a real culture of respect for the environment, where our citizens, businesses and entrepreneurs have a culture of respect and care for the environment.
one last thought: you were able to bring together almost 200 heads of state to decide on the climate of the coming years: why can't you do that on immigration?
after that, i hope that, since those resources are still to be spent, all colleagues will think of using them to invest in producing wherever there is a culture of respect for the environment and therefore in european and italian companies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the marrakesh summit should have dealt with the implementation of the paris agreement on climate change.
but climate change is not slowing down, as the world meteorological organization has announced that 2016 is set to be the warmest year since 1880. at this point, the paris agreement, even if it is implemented, despite donald trump's claims, will not be enough to keep us within two degrees of global warming.
climate finance with funds like the green climate fund is expected to mobilize $100 billion a year in funding starting in 2020, but so far it has raised only $81 million for climate adaptation, and 91 percent of that is from europe.
resources for climate change mitigation need to be rebalanced with those for adaptation policies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, one of the most alarming consequences of man-made climate change is the migration caused by environmental disasters.
according to the international organization for migration, by 2050, at least 200-250 million people will be displaced by climate change; that's one person in every 45 in the world, an average of 6 million women and men forced to leave their homes every year.
these are frightening numbers that could even reach, if the most dramatic of the scenarios imagined by the un agency were to come true, the staggering figure of one billion environmental refugees.
while we await the states' implementation of the commitments they solemnly made in marrakesh, i hope that the european parliament will seize the opportunity offered by the reform of asylum legislation to provide adequate recognition and protection for environmental refugees.
madam president, i would like to thank all the members who have taken part in this debate and who have shown the house's interest in climate change policies.
at this cop, we saw that non-governmental actors were very present: municipalities, regions, autonomous communities, ngos, civil society, energy companies, renewable energy companies, energy efficiency companies, economic actors, social actors.
we have worked very closely with the covenant of mayors, because we understood that cities are a crucible of very powerful climate change experiences, and we will continue to work with the rest of the non-governmental actors, with the committee of the regions and with all of these actors, because the fight against climate change is bottom up, it's not up bottom, and therefore we have to do it in a very participatory way.
i want to say that 2016 has been a very positive year for climate change.
in the face of uncertainty, it is clear that china and the european union must come together to maintain that permanent leadership in the fight against climate change by developing our policies.
second, we are the only party that, at this point, has launched (or will launch next week) all the legislation necessary to meet its climate goals, through legislation, not through presidential decisions.
we can orchestrate large coalitions with developing countries because we are financially solidary; because we are the ones who put the most climate finance on the table, and also, in coordination with our development policies.
we are the largest contributor to climate finance; we are the one who finances 50 percent of the green climate fund; we are the one who finances 90 percent of the adaptation fund, and we are respected by developing countries.
and we will have to extend our partnerships to india, as mr eickhout has said: it is essential to have india, a country which has an impressive demography and equally impressive co2 emissions, as its demography.
i will launch a major package and then, as mrs van brempt has said here, parliament will also have its responsibilities, starting with the european system of emission allowances, which is fundamental for the industrial sectors; then moving on to the diffuse sectors - agriculture, buildings, transport - and finally developing the technological innovation that will enable us to lead the world in energy efficiency and renewable energy.
there was unity in the environment council, under the slovak presidency, to launch the ratification process; there was unity in this parliament to give its consent to that ratification; there was unity in the national parliaments, as 16 european union parliaments have already ratified this process.
this shows that across the european union climate change policies are united, ambitious and hopeful.
by the way, the slovak presidency is coming to an end, but we are still working hard and we hope that, at the meeting of the environment council in december, we will have an agreement on the ets.
fourthly and lastly, i would like to thank parliament for its cooperation throughout the year, including its committed cooperation on the spot in marrakech, and in particular to thank mr la via, chair of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, for his leadership.
i believe that the adoption of growth models compatible with the protection of the environment is now, more than ever in the history of mankind, a top priority.
although there are still a number of issues to be resolved, such as the critical issues surrounding the establishment of the green climate fund, i am convinced that the work programme and the deadlines set are evidence of a renewed environmental awareness on the part of the entire international community, which should give us cause for optimism.
the comprehensive economic and trade agreement between canada and the eu is undoubtedly an important achievement of the commission: however, it also contains some provisions which, in my view, could create situations of interference with the prerogative of the community institutions and governments to legislate on such central issues as the protection of health or the environment.
transparency, democracy, public services and the environment are as important as trade.
ceta creates a supranational para-judicial tribunal which would allow multinational companies to sue states outside the normal court system for damages for any harm suffered as a result of laws and regulations protecting citizens, health and the environment.
‒ air pollution is a very serious and important problem today and must be addressed as such.
thousands of people die or fall ill every year as a result of pollution, not to mention the health costs, estimated at 1.4 trillion euros a year in europe.
the directive under review sets specific national reduction targets for all member states, with the aim of reducing pollution through specific control programmes.
‒ air pollution is a major public health concern.
i voted in favour of the girling report because i share the need to set stricter limits on emissions of pollutants.
the text adopted sets out new national commitments to reduce emissions of sulphur dioxide (so2), nitrogen oxides (nox), volatile organic compounds other than methane (vocs), ammonia (nh3) and fine particulate matter (less than 2.5 micrometres in diameter).
the european union must continue its efforts to improve air quality and must do so by continuing to improve the control legislation which has proved ineffective in the vw case and in the discrepancy between the real driving emission values and the nox emissions in the euro 6 diesel car test.
air pollution remains the main environmental risk factor for human health, lowers the quality of life and is the cause of an estimated 467 000 premature deaths a year in europe: i should have done more!
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants because i strongly believe the eu institutions should review and update their ceilings to emissions of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, non-methane volatile organic compounds and ammonia in order to better address the air pollution in the union.
‒ air pollution, neglected for years by policy, is now a strategic priority as a major public health concern.
in europe, the total external health costs to society from air pollution are estimated to be between eur 330 and 940 billion per year.
in addition, a growing body of evidence is available that the deposition of nitrogen in the atmosphere causes changes in the natural environment, including reduced diversity of soil vegetation, reduced plant growth and nutrient imbalances due to eutrophication and acidification.
despite significant improvements, many member states are still far from the agreed standards for reducing pollutant emissions.
‒ air pollution kills around 400 000 people in the european union every year and costs the health systems of the member states an estimated €300-900 billion annually.
in order to reduce the impact of air pollution on public health, i thought i would vote in favour of updating the directive on the reduction of national emissions of certain pollutants.
i believe that each member state, within its means, must reduce its emissions of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, ammonia and volatile organic compounds other than methane in order to protect the environment and the well-being of its citizens.
to this end, member states should transmit to the commission every two years national pollution control programmes for all economic sectors with particular reference to industrial activities and transport.
i welcome the fact that the updating of the directive commits the member states to also assess the impacts of air pollution on aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems.
‒ over the past 20 years, the union has made considerable progress in air quality and anthropogenic atmospheric emissions, in particular through the adoption of specific policies.
i therefore welcome the setting of maximum limits for some of the most harmful gases in line with the long-term objectives of an atmosphere free from adverse effects on health and the environment.
the approved measure aims to reduce levels and deposits of acidifying and eutrophicating air pollutants and other pollutants, including ozone.
in addition, the urgency of synergies between the future directive and the european climate and energy programmes is confirmed.
the request to member states to minimise their annual anthropogenic emissions in accordance with the national commitments applicable from 2020 is followed by a request to monitor and update the commission on their progress.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies.
finally, member states must ensure that the public concerned is consulted at an early stage of the development and adoption of national pollution control programmes and at any stage of such activities prior to their actual completion.
the planned action will continue to reduce harmful emissions such as sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, ammonia, volatile organic compounds and fine dust (pm 2.5).
air pollution, which has been unfortunately neglected by policy for years, must now more than ever be the subject of specific legislation, also to eliminate the possible risks to the health of citizens.
‒ although limiting air pollution is rightly a priority for europe, this report has failed to ensure a marked reduction in the air pollutants concerned, but rather made broad concessions such as the exclusion of methane from the list of pollutants to be limited.
‒ air pollution is a cross-border issue, important for both human health and the environment, affecting all citizens of the union and requiring immediate action.
‒ according to data recently published in a report by the european environment agency, between 2000 and 2014, fine dust caused the death of more than 430 000 people in europe each year, 66 000 in our country alone.
a disturbing and dramatic photograph, confirming how smog and poor air quality remain the number one problem in europe for public health and the environment around us.
with the adoption of the directive on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants, which updates and amends the previous directive 2003/35/ec, the european institutions are now taking a first step towards reducing the limits of the most important pollutants by setting significant targets to be achieved by 2030. the premature deaths, together with the total costs of air pollution - estimated at over eur 940 billion a year across europe - are an unacceptable burden which merits a more responsible response and even more ambitious efforts not only by the european union but above all by the member states, which will be called upon to implement this directive.
‒ air pollution is a public health concern.
this is a commitment that the european commission has been pursuing since 2013 with the clean air package aimed at improving air quality by 2030. i am in favour of early detection of environmental problems and corrective action.
for these reasons i thought it appropriate to vote for stricter eu legislation on environmental matters.
‒ air pollution is the main environmental risk factor not only for human health but also for animal and plant biodiversity.
its negative impact on ecosystems, buildings, materials and the climate causes incalculable damage.
the who and the oecd estimate that the economic cost of the health impact of air pollution in europe is about eur 1.4 trillion.
the deterioration of air quality will not be contained by unrealistic targets, and we cannot but welcome regulations which end up protecting the business of a few at the expense of the protection of the environment and health.
‒ air pollution, which has been neglected for years by national and european policy, must be included among the strategic priorities on the eu agenda, as it is a major public health concern.
i voted in favour of the proposal for a revision of the national emission limits for certain air pollutants, as it concerns national commitments to reduce emissions, flexibility and the maintenance of methane.
‒ this is an important report on ensuring our air quality and on action needed to be taken so that there are no significant negative impacts on and risks to human health and the environment.
i support the report in establishing emission reduction commitments for the member states in atmospheric emissions of sulphur dioxide (so2), nitrogen oxides (nox), non-methane volatile organic compounds (nmvoc), ammonia (nh3) and fine particulate matter (pm 2.5 ).
to achieve this it is important that the member states can access eu funds for implementation of this directive and that there is an easy access for member states to exchange best practises and experiences in reducing emissions and ensuring air-quality.
lastly i support the flexibility for member states that is included in this directive, it is important that member states are not forced to take a certain action to ensure air quality and emissions levels as the most efficient way for one member state to deal with these issue might not hold true for another.
‒ i have expressed my support for the amendment of the emissions ceiling directive, and i think it is important to set new high standards to further limit certain harmful substances such as sulphur dioxide, nitrogen, particulate matter and ammonia.
the commission will therefore be required to verify that governments are keeping their commitments to drastically reduce emissions to the required standards.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants and amending directive 2003/35/ec because it is an important vote that unlocks a file that has been closed for almost three years and gives important answers to european citizens.
the quality of the air we breathe is not just an environmental issue, but a serious health emergency, with almost 90% of eu citizens living in polluted places and some 400 000 premature deaths a year linked to it.
‒ i voted positively for the report on reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants.
it is clear that air quality needs support and requires of immediate action because, just like the report points out, air is ‘a significant trans-boundary human health and environmental issue that profoundly affects all eu citizens.’ air pollution has increased to worrying levels for the health and we can no longer let this keep on taking place.
‒ i voted in favour of the proposal because i believe it is important to commit ourselves, at national level, to further reducing air pollution emissions from 2020 to 2030. the aim of this directive is to improve human health on the one hand and to protect the environment on the other.
these national programmes to control air pollution would be applicable from the agricultural sector to the industrial sector, so anyone could benefit.
in the case of air quality, this is a matter of extreme importance for both human health and the environment, which affects all citizens of the union and requires immediate action at supranational level.
air pollution, which has been neglected by policy for years, is now a priority.
‒ air pollution causes over 400 000 premature deaths in the european union each year, making it the main environmental risk factor for human health.
pollution from transport, heating, industry and agriculture, for example, also imposes high external costs due to lost working days, health costs, crop yield losses and damage to buildings, totalling between eur 330 and 940 billion per year.
‒ the level of air pollutants in the air has not yet fallen below levels necessary to protect human health and the environment.
i believe that further efforts are needed to reduce the more than 460,000 premature deaths caused each year by fine dust, as well as the 80,000 caused by nitrogen dioxide emissions.
i believe that the reduction in pollutant emissions each year, while recognising the possible negative economic effects that would be experienced by certain sectors, is an important stimulus to research in green technologies.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a parliament and council directive on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants.
in the case of air quality, the answer is clear: this is a major and cross-border issue for both human health and the environment that affects all citizens of the union and requires immediate action.
the commission text also requires member states to adopt national air pollution control programmes to be updated every two years.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
we do not think, for example, that the call for the use of the internal method, which allows banks to calculate their capital requirements through internal models, instead of the standardised method, is sustainable, since the use of this method has generated distortions and opened the way to real abuses by the big banks.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the implementation of the common security and defence policy because i think the union should use its foreign policy tools more efficiently by bearing in mind that the european security environment has deteriorated considerably.
strengthening the eu's status as a guarantor of security in europe's neighbourhood requires appropriate and sufficient capabilities, as well as an internationally competitive, efficient and transparent defence industry that ensures a sustainable supply chain.
it is important to prioritise securing a stable and safe european environment for citizens, especially after the rise of radical islamic organisations targeting europe ‘on an unprecedented scale.’ in addition, there is a need to reiterate that maximum cooperation and communication among member states is crucial in these times of countering terrorism.
i believe that the european security environment has significantly deteriorated, becoming more unstable, more complex, more dangerous and less predictable.
the resolution adopted by parliament today, which i have decided to support with conviction, stresses the need to ensure accessibility not only in the physical environment but also in information and communication, which must offer content in sign language.
taking into account that the assessment of the uses of bentazone is insufficient to conclude that there will be no harmful effects on human or animal health or on groundwater or any unacceptable impact on the environment, the commission is requested to withdraw the draft implementing regulation, which provided for the authorisation of bentazone until 31 january 2032, and to submit a new draft.
data from the uk environment agency indicate a significant presence of this pesticide in uk groundwater due to its intrinsic properties.
at present there is no adequate and sufficient information to establish that there are no adverse effects on human or animal health and no disastrous environmental impact.
the precautionary principle contained in regulation 1187/2009 is, in my view, a key principle of eu environmental policy: the protection of plants and the marketing of plant protection products must therefore comply with this principle.
‒ i voted against my colleagues' proposal because i believe that the active substance bentazone is used with excellent results as a tool to eradicate broadleaf weeds and is also, in the light of data compiled by the uk environment agency, the substance most commonly detected in groundwater and surface water.
it also faces major difficulties in energy supply, a significant drop in tourism revenue and a decline in foreign investment.
above all, there are the negative impacts on biodiversity and existing ecosystems, as well as on our children.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the illegal trade in wildlife represents a serious and growing threat to biodiversity and the environment, but it also represents a source of income for criminal organisations, with a total annual business value of several billion euros, the proceeds of which are often used to finance further very serious crimes.
it is often run by organised crime, which is harmful to the environment, and it is often used to finance terrorist movements.
the first concerns the environment and the need to put small businesses in a position, including economically, to comply with the new environmental policies resulting from the paris agreements and to be able to absorb any new higher costs and burdens.
in this context, it is important to emphasise the increasingly widespread collaborative models, which represent an additional resource for the sustainable development of connectivity, especially in peripheral, mountain and rural regions, with indirect benefits also for the tourism sector.
eu bilateral aviation safety agreements promote cooperation to ensure high levels of civil aviation safety and environmental compatibility.
i would like to know from the commission how it intends to deal with specific issues in these agreements, such as environmental, social, security and competitiveness issues.
as regards the environment and safety, we know that not all third countries show the same attention and concern and that it is therefore necessary to maintain high european standards.
– mr president, ensuring a safe, reliable and uninterrupted energy supply in the eu is a top objective of european energy policy.
as stated in the energy union strategy, we need to adopt a broad approach on energy security, encompassing solid emergency plans, external supply diversification, enforcement of internal market rules, infrastructure development, indigenous renewable generation and energy savings.
second, the eu needs to ensure that intergovernmental agreements signed by its member states with third countries in the area of energy are more transparent and fully compliant with eu law.
third, the commission adopted the lng and gas storage strategy, which analyses the related strategic infrastructure to complete the internal energy market and the necessary projects to end the single source dependency of some member states.
the commission strategy focuses on removing barriers to decarbonisation in buildings and industry, highlighting the role of modern technologies, increased energy efficiency and the use of renewables.
in july 2015 the commission proposed a revision of the energy labelling directive and it will soon present a comprehensive review of the renewable energy efficiency and energy performance of buildings directives.
but energy security also refers to the electricity sector itself, where security of supply requires us to develop a more integrated approach, based on common methods and rules, as well as regional cooperation.
as argued in the energy union strategy, the commission has identified four main areas that can play a crucial role in enhancing gas supply diversification in europe.
we are also working with our ukrainian partners to revise and upgrade the existing memorandum of understanding on energy cooperation to be fit for the common challenges ahead.
irrespective of the organisational set—up of nord stream ii, the commission’s overall negative assessment of the project’s contribution to the eu’s energy policy goals remains valid.
nord stream ii, if built, has to be operated under a legal framework which also takes due account of the key principles of our energy market rules.
this is the result of an exemption procedure under the eu’s third energy package legislation for the use of an internal pipeline in the eu, and was requested by a national regulator.
i think that the urgency of discussing european energy security now has not been felt.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of energy efficiency.
energy security increasingly means tackling energy poverty on a large and small scale.
but the timing, in my view, is not the best, especially in view of the winter legislative package which is due for 30 november and which will contain quite a few indications on the subject, as well as focusing in particular on renewables, market design and energy efficiency.
it is perhaps in this context, looking at the picture as a whole, that we can best understand the medium- and long-term prospects for european energy security, without, however, neglecting the contingent debate, such as that on north stream 2 or other infrastructure projects which seem to run counter to the reasons for the energy union.
the commission continues to include in its objectives the increase of renewable energy, the reduction of emissions and security of supply.
meanwhile, more than 50 million european citizens live in energy poverty to the extent that they require action to safeguard their health.
many member states are also far from the renewable energy targets that would ensure a secure and self-sufficient supply.
i therefore repeat what i have already said in the past, namely that it is essential to achieve a rapid abandonment of dependence on fossil fuels in order to facilitate widespread self-production and self-sufficiency in energy based on renewable sources.
the transition phase must be rapid and supported by research, innovation and the effective and efficient use of all available european funds to increase energy efficiency and renewable energy production.
the worst thing is that it also shows how serious the socioeconomic and environmental implications of these are, to the detriment of the fundamental rights of citizens.
all this is happening in a climate of great unease.
the descendants of our ancestors, in the name of development, now considered sustainable, have deprived the guarani of their land, and therefore of their reason for living, causing suicides, even among children.
we are talking about activities financed by unscrupulous speculators and multinational companies, including european ones: anachronistic dams, intensive farming and animal husbandry, exploitation of mineral and fossil deposits are leading to the starvation deaths of hundreds of guaraní children and the extinction of our guardians of biodiversity, the first human race, the most important, the most sustainable.
the eu macro-financial assistance shall aim to restore the sustainability of jordan's external financial situation and support the country's structural reform programme, complementing the resources already allocated under the imf agreement to cover balance of payments needs.
‒ pension systems need to be adapted across the eu to ensure adequate, secure and sustainable pensions.
the revision of the directive is intended to enhance the ability of epaps to invest in long-term assets and to support the financing of sustainable growth in the real economy.
in fact, occupational or business pensions are a valuable addition to the social security pension system, but they cannot replace them given their fundamental importance for the provision of adequate, secure and sustainable pension benefits.
for these reasons, while i have worked constructively on some important aspects of transparency obligations and the requirement to take environmental, social and governance risks into account in its investment activities, i have found it appropriate to strongly oppose this directive, because of the strong concerns it raises about the impact of the new rules on people's retirement savings.
‒ we are concerned about turkey because it has not yet succeeded in defining an adequate economic strategy to keep public finances under control, curb inflation and stabilise the currency, while ensuring sustainable economic growth, but above all the human rights situation is worrying as the democratization process in the country has made vigorous steps backwards in the last two years.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of certain substances and preparations is a very good one.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
while it contains some positive proposals, some critical points remain, such as the harmonization and total convergence of systems which are not compatible with the values of social justice and equity, sustainable growth and development.
as is well known, the harmful effects of distortions in the field of vat are reflected negatively on the basic principles of the union, if one considers the effects on free competition, on the correct supply of eu financial resources, on small and medium-sized enterprises, creating a distorted tax environment.
finally, i support the commission's proposal to review regularly the list of goods and services eligible for reduced rates, provided that the list takes account of political priorities such as social, gender, health, environmental, nutritional and cultural aspects.
finally, i agree with the commission that the vat system must be based on the principle of taxation in the country of destination of goods and services, just as i believe that the single european vat action plan is necessary, which can support a deeper and fairer single market, which helps to encourage tax fairness, sustainable consumption, growth, investment and fair competition.
however, some critical issues remain, such as the creation of a single european list of goods and services at reduced rates of tax, as well as the harmonization and total convergence of the various systems, which goes in the opposite direction to the values of social justice and equity, sustainable growth and development.
‒ the report assesses the eu action plan against illegal wildlife trafficking developed as part of the eu's response to the 2030 agenda (sustainable development goal 15).
rhinoceroses, elephants, great apes and tigers are just some of the animal species most affected by poaching, with irreparable damage to ecosystems and biodiversity.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful organisms.
member states must also take up this challenge responsibly, to foster sustainable development, to strengthen the rule of law, to consolidate the eu security framework and to preserve biodiversity for future generations.
secondly, to promote the development of sustainable and alternative livelihoods for communities living close to wildlife, to increase the benefits of conservation measures at local level and to promote a view of wildlife as a valuable source of income for communities.
such initiatives, if taken in consultation with the communities concerned, will increase support for conservation and contribute to the recovery, conservation and sustainable management of wildlife populations and habitats.
‒ i voted in favour of the report because the definition of the action plan will strengthen the european union's role in the global fight against environmental crime.
targeted interventions such as reducing the overall supply and demand of wildlife products within the eu, raising public awareness, coordinating national and european authorities to effectively prosecute traffickers and toughening penalties for such crimes, coupled with active eu political support and technical assistance to countries of origin, transit and destination, will preserve biodiversity and improve the eu's security framework.
i strongly believe that an action plan involving all eu member states is essential to ensure adequate protection of the natural ecosystems of the species in question and effective control to prevent the illegal trade in these specimens from posing a serious threat to the biodiversity of wildlife.
the implementation of support policies on the ground, aimed at promoting the development of sustainable and alternative livelihoods for rural communities, can be the right way to benefit directly from participation in wildlife conservation.
hence, only by taking a hands-on approach will the eu be able to preserve biodiversity for future generations, improve the life of local peoples, and increase sustainable development.
this action plan would be part of the eu's response to the un 2030 agenda for sustainable development and, in particular, to sustainable development goal 15, which calls for action against poaching and wildlife trafficking.
the member states of the european union cannot stand by because this illegal trade in animals is damaging to human rights, the well-being of the local community and the survival of the global ecosystem.
in addition to being a serious threat to biodiversity, such trafficking also poses a serious security problem for the countries of origin.
it is essential that we all work to halt the rapid decline of the most endangered animal species and to protect the richness of biodiversity and the future of our children.
the growth of such criminal activity over the last decade is seriously threatening biodiversity and the survival of endangered species.
the growth of the digital economy and the emergence of platforms are profoundly changing the environment in which small transport companies operate, with new challenges also arising from the development of connected and self-driving vehicles.
‒ with the development of new economic models, european smes, especially in the transport sector, are facing significant challenges in responding to an increasing demand for mobility, with the constraints of limited infrastructure and increasing environmental requirements.
first of all, i consider that a more integrated european mobility system is the best way to offer a better and competitive environment to all companies.
there is also an urgent need for the transport sector to reduce its carbon emissions.
the increasing demand for mobility and the resulting pressures to provide safe and sustainable solutions pose a difficult challenge for small businesses, especially in terms of costs.
among these: the request for a revision of regulation 1072/2009 (the introduction of which has created disruptions on national markets) governing the current rules on international transport and cabotage; the creation of cooperation structures between small transport companies, scientific research institutes and local and regional authorities to promote sustainable mobility; identifying a modernised multimodal regulatory framework that promotes innovation and competitiveness, protects consumers and their data, and protects workers' rights.
‒ european transport companies face significant challenges in responding to the increasing demand for mobility and increasing environmental requirements.
this is a very complex sector and therefore the challenges are many such as the increasing demand for mobility with the constraint of limited infrastructure and increasing environmental requirements which are difficult to cope with.
i therefore believe it is important to define a regulatory, social and fiscal environment as favourable as possible, especially in the light of technological developments which see this sector as a very fertile field.
‒ the sharing economy is actively contributing to the development of more efficient and sustainable business models, particularly in the areas of transport and urban mobility.
on the other hand, as argued in the riquet report on new opportunities for small transport enterprises, including collaborative economy models, self-regulating markets or the current fragmentation of legislation at national, sometimes even regional or local level, do not ensure an appropriate regulatory environment for the development of european small enterprises and innovative start-ups in the transport sector.
by supporting the report, we can look forward to providing even safer, more sustainable, and more competitive small businesses.
there are two main challenges we are facing: on the one hand, ensuring that the digital transition benefits smes and micro-enterprises; the commission is also proposing to make a contribution to the development of the transport sector by balancing environmental considerations and mobility needs.
as they are very important for the european union, it is necessary to create a new positive regulatory, social and fiscal environment, which would allow for an effective convergence between the traditional and platform economies in order to foster, at the same time, greater consumer protection and the implementation of fair competition.
it recognises the importance of public transport for rural areas and, finally, recalls the importance of the sector for environmental issues, proposing legislation and funding to promote a totally emission-free mobility in the short term.
the two major challenges for smes are to adapt to the changes taking place and to respond to the needs of society through sustainable solutions that take account of the respect for the environment.
stresses the need for comprehensive international oversight of the project implementation to ensure compliance with international nuclear and environmental safety requirements and standards.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
i think europe has a high duty: i think that the commission has a duty to make policies that respond to the citizens, to the demands that citizens make of europe on work, especially young people, on the environment, on immigration issues that concern both migrants, but also the countries and cities and communities that are hosting migrants who are in great difficulty.
and then on the environment, on work on enterprises, we need to focus on this and to achieve these results, to work on these matters, we need to invest again, we need to have a europe that invests again.
i regret in particular the reduction in commitments to mediterranean countries and the postponement, for lack of a legal basis, of the 250 million from the european fund for sustainable development to deal with the root causes of immigration.
this situation is not sustainable and this flexibility will not help us.
what will be done for employment, for micro, small and mediumsized enterprises, for welfare, for a sustainable future?
or should we rather ask how much waste there will be, starting with the three seats of the european parliament, for example?
the council has unfortunately chosen not to introduce new funds but to transfer resources by means of an operation which masks budget cuts which are no longer sustainable.
now they are also an economic problem, indeed, a cyber-economy problem, and it is in this perspective that they must be solved, by enabling inclusive and sustainable growth for developing countries.
i also ask this commission to give us the opportunity to review the rules on flexibility and the stability pact in the specific case of the earthquake, especially with regard to investment to prevent earthquakes and sustainable reconstruction, because in this specific case they should be excluded from the calculation of the national deficit under the stability pact, because in this case one cannot ask for an exception to the rule for electoral reasons, but to safeguard the lives, the suffering of hundreds of people who have lost their lives in the context of natural disasters.
and today it consistently calls for the exclusion from the calculation of sustainable reconstruction, seismic prevention and actions co-financed by the structural funds under thematic objective five.
experience shows that this solidarity fund, although limited, has not been fully used so far, despite the increase in natural disasters in europe, also as a result of climate change.
but there is also the experience of regions, especially in southern europe, in italy, portugal, spain, greece and cyprus, where climate change, bad land policies, produce catastrophes that now follow one another in a series, leading the populations to despair.
on the basis of what has already been proposed in a letter to president juncker, i join the call of many colleagues to exclude from the calculation of the national deficit under the stability and growth pact investments for sustainable reconstruction and for anti-seismic operations.
in view of the serious situation of the earthquake-affected areas, it is necessary to exclude from the calculation of national government deficits under the stability and growth pact investments in sustainable reconstruction and earthquake prevention and to consider extending the existing calculation of the solidarity fund, which is currently based on the effects of damage caused by a single catastrophic event, to a cumulative calculation of damage caused by several natural disasters in the same region in a year.
they also contribute to a climate in which hatred and intolerance become normalised.
we are also looking at how to support further the role of the media and ethical journalism in promoting fundamental rights and to ensure that a pluralistic media environment can foster political debate on crucial issues for democratic societies.
transparency is key to reviving the financial sector: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
the text approved will also strengthen future reports on issues such as environmental protection, especially in relation to climate change which threatens to cause considerable damage to the archipelago.
the climate is warming, and rising seas are threatening the very existence of the island state.
given the development potential of the solomon islands, the agreement will provide an excellent opportunity to enhance cultural and economic relations and to intensify eu cooperation in the islands, which currently focuses mainly on human resource development and sustainable rural development.
the solomon islands have an agriculture and services economy, with which the european union began relations in 1990 focused on cooperation for sustainable rural development and, in parallel, on human resources development.
the union therefore considers it important to continue a dialogue on environmental protection, especially in relation to climate change and the defence of human rights and gender issues.
this visa arrangement between the eu and the solomon islands, economically speaking, will hasten the process of sustainable rural development and human resource development.
the agreement will help to boost tourism and trade in the federated states of micronesia, while strengthening the political dialogue which is currently focused on environmental protection, especially in relation to climate change, as well as on the defence of human rights and gender issues.
the climate is warming, and rising seas are threatening the very existence of the island state.
considering that the political relations of the european union with the federated states of micronesia focus on the protection of their vulnerable environment (especially in relation to climate change) and the defence of human rights, this agreement represents a step forward in fostering better cooperation.
the climate is warming, and rising seas are threatening the very existence of the island state.
the recommendation identifies the main themes on which the political dialogue should focus: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european environment agency.
tuvalu is deeply dependent on international development aid because of the existence of large economic disparities, as it is one of the poorest countries in the pacific region, and one of the most exposed to climate change and its consequences.
in the context of the environment, further cooperation and dialogue between the country and the bloc means addressing the issues of environmental protection and climate change on one hand, and the protection of human rights and gender equality on the other one.
the agreement aims to protect the environment and climate change on the one hand and to defend human rights and gender equality on the other.
as a politician, i believe that support for this country is necessary because it is one of the poorest of the pacific nations and one of the most exposed to the effects of climate change.
the climate is warming, and rising seas are threatening the very existence of the island state.
investment efforts need to be stepped up to mitigate climate change and to ensure maximum transparency in the award, management and implementation of the eusf.
investment efforts, especially in climate change mitigation, and risk prevention and management strategies need to be stepped up.
i also believe, as a politician, that the eu should improve and speed up the disbursement of funds to prevent people affected by environmental disasters from feeling abandoned.
it is also important to make reconstruction interventions conditional on a policy of prevention and sustainability that reduces the risks and damage associated with future disasters.
‒ i voted in favour of my colleagues' proposal because the prb no 4/2016 anticipating the disbursement of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) through the allocation of eur 73.9 million to commit to the energy component of the connecting europe facility (cef-europe) requires the approval of the proposed increases for heading no 3 by mobilising the contingency margin.
it has only proposed to increase some appropriations in commitments (not in payments) for some shared items such as heading 3 and for others that are less sustainable such as the efsi.
i think the commission's proposal is appropriate in order to provide aid to member states affected by disasters which have an impact on social, environmental and economic conditions.
this will allow the community budget to be reinforced under article 13 06 01 'assistance to member states in the event of major natural disasters having a serious impact on living conditions, the environment or the economy' by eur 31 475 125 in both commitment and payment appropriations.
moreover, as a politician i believe it is wrong to deduct eur 575.0 million from the unallocated margin of heading 2 (sustainable growth: natural resources), as environmental resources must constantly evolve and cannot be abandoned.
however, there are several criticisms, including a lack of well-defined political priorities and the necessary cuts to make this budget sustainable and credible also to european citizens.
‒ the european union has faced crucial challenges in recent years that have called into question its ability to intervene effectively in an increasingly changing environment.
there are other sectoral priorities to be taken into account in the budget, such as security of energy supply, research and innovation and climate action (cop21).
i regret, however, the reduction in commitments to mediterranean countries to eur 332 million from the eur 340 initially planned and the postponement, for lack of a legal basis, of the european fund for sustainable development (efsd) funding of eur 250 million to address the root causes of migration.
it has major criticisms, including a clear lack of political priorities and the necessary savings to make this european budget sustainable and credible also to the citizens: the continuing increase in administrative and bureaucratic costs (the latest being a retroactive adjustment of eu staff salaries of 3.3%) shows how the reality of living in brussels is disconnected from everyday life in the different european countries.
in my view, all the criticisms already expressed at the end of october remain, including a clear lack of political priorities and the necessary savings to make this budget sustainable and credible also to the citizens: the continuing increase in administrative and bureaucratic costs shows how the reality of brussels is disconnected from daily life in the various european countries.
‒ the resolution calls on the commission, in the light of the serious situation in the earthquake-affected areas, to consider excluding from the calculation of national public deficits under the stability and growth pact investments in sustainable reconstruction and earthquake prevention and to consider extending the existing solidarity fund calculation, which is currently based on the effects of damage caused by a single catastrophic event, to a cumulative calculation of damage caused by several natural disasters in the same region in a year.
the report contains the same request that was made some time ago to commission president juncker and commissioner moscovici to exclude from the calculation of national deficits under the stability and growth pact investments for sustainable reconstruction and anti-seismic operations.
no, it will not be an easy christmas, but it will certainly be pleasing to know, if it is accepted, that the invitation to the commission to exclude from the calculation of national public deficits in the framework of the stability and growth pact investments in favour of sustainable reconstruction and anti-seismic prevention.
‒ i voted in favour of this proposal as it calls on the commission, in the light of the very serious and exceptional situation in italy following the recent earthquakes, to consider excluding from the calculation of national public deficits under the stability and growth pact investments in sustainable reconstruction and earthquake prevention, including those co-financed by the esi funds and allocated to thematic objective 5 (prevention, promotion of adaptation to climate change, risk prevention and management).
another key paragraph in the resolution is paragraph 7, as it calls on the commission to evaluate investing in sustainable reconstruction and other forms of important anti-seismic projects.
we therefore ask the commission to consider excluding from the calculation of national public deficits under the stability and growth pact investments in sustainable reconstruction and earthquake prevention.
the existing european funds which allow for investment in the prevention of natural disasters and for the consolidation of reconstruction projects will be used to the best of our ability to achieve the long-term sustainable development of earthquake-hit areas.
in this case too, european support will be essential to promote sustainable and seismic-resistant reconstruction, through the synergistic use of its financial instruments and greater flexibility in the calculation of the deficit.
the resolution calls on the commission to take into account the fact that, following the devastating earthquake in central italy on 24 august, other major earthquakes linked to the same seismic event have hit the same areas in recent months and that 100,000 people have been forced to abandon their homes because they are uninhabitable, and calls on the commission, in the light of the extremely serious and exceptional nature of the situation, to consider excluding from the calculation of national public deficits under the stability and growth pact investments in favour of sustainable reconstruction and earthquake prevention.
however, the need to evaluate this type of statement several times in recent years, most notably by arias cañete, commissioner for climate action and energy, has highlighted several shortcomings in the regulation.
‒ the recent events involving former european commission president josé manuel barroso and energy commissioner miguel arias cañete have opened up new thinking at eu level about possible conflicts of interest involving eu top officials.
another rather controversial aspect of the directive is the lack of an adequate financial guarantee for environmental disasters.
i voted in favour of the proposal because i am very concerned about the protection of the environment and especially our seas.
the increased difficulties also entail a possible increase in risks, which must therefore be properly assessed and avoided in order to avoid devastating consequences for the environment, the marine economy and coastal areas.
the chrysogonos report on liability, compensation and financial guarantees for offshore oil operations is balanced, deals with the issue in a concrete way and proposes that the recognition of damage be extended to environmental impact as well as to the more strictly economic-equity areas.
criminal liability should therefore be introduced at eu level, thus leading to improved environmental protection and compliance with safety measures.
i think that an update of the liability regimes in force in the member states could limit the outsourcing of operator liability for accidental pollution to the detriment of public finances.
i appreciate that the report notes that the liability regimes available in the member states are having difficulty in meeting the majority of claims for compensation in relation to accidents resulting in widespread pollution damage.
‒ attempts to introduce legal instruments to prevent and remedy environmental damage caused by offshore oil and gas operations can help to ensure that the polluter pays principle is properly applied.
compensation and reparation schemes, as well as financial guarantee instruments capable of responding even in the most costly cases, should therefore be identified, ensuring adequate environmental restoration and monetisation of the damage for the affected activities.
we must avoid new drilling, and we must abandon all efforts to use fossil fuels and instead encourage renewable energy sources, preferably with a view to self-production.
‒ i voted in favour of my colleagues' proposal because i believe that, in order to better protect the marine environment, the liability regimes in force in the member states must be updated in such a way as to ensure that, when an accident occurs in the waters of those states, it does not have a negative impact on the future of maritime operations in the hydrocarbon sector or on that of the eu as a whole, especially when those countries that are harmed are those that live from maritime tourism.
‒ at a time when member states are setting the conditions for exploiting the energy resources of the hydrocarbon sector, it is important to remember the tribute paid to the many workers who have lost their lives over the years.
considering that inland oil and gas sources can contribute significantly to the existing energy needs in europe, it should be borne in mind that offshore oil and gas operations are occurring in increasingly extreme environments and could have important environmental consequences and devastating consequences for the economy of the sea and coastal areas.
the union's environmental policy must also be based on the precautionary principle.
i am also concerned that the present government has failed to organise the presidential elections within the time limits laid down by the congolese constitution and i hope that the electoral consultation can take place in a short time in a regular and peaceful environment.
parliament reiterated its call for elections to be held in a fair and timely manner, in full respect of the constitution of the republic and the african charter on democracy, and reiterated the government's responsibility to ensure an enabling environment for transparent, credible and inclusive elections.
‒ this resolution, highlighting the high potential of renewable energy sources in developing countries - particularly in africa - encourages their financing and use, drawing attention to the extent and implications of energy poverty in developing countries and the eu's strong involvement in efforts to reduce such poverty.
the committee also calls for the phasing out of fossil fuel subsidies, with the funds thus freed being allocated to effective social policies and actions to eliminate energy poverty in developing countries.
‒ one of the sustainable development goals is to ensure access for all to affordable, reliable, modern and sustainable forms of energy by 2030. today, there are 1.2 billion people in the world who do not have access to electricity, half of them in africa.
a number that is constantly increasing because of population growth that is faster than the rate at which energy access is being expanded.
the commission's energyising development initiative, which aims to provide access to sustainable energy for more than 500 million people in developing countries by 2030, is welcomed by the committee and i support it.
the establishment of technical assistance tools, the use of union experts to develop technical expertise in countries, the promotion of capacity building and the transfer of technology are crucial means to achieve important results; the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment.
the aim of ensuring access to energy for all, especially in rural areas, is to accelerate the continent's development, making it possible to create a system increasingly based on those renewable energy sources, such as solar and wind, which are abundant in africa.
‒ over 70% of africa's total energy consumption comes from renewable sources, but almost all of it comes from traditional biomass uses; there are still huge opportunities to include other sources, particularly solar and wind.
given that demographic trends in africa will have a strong impact on land use requirements for crop production and on the need for firewood, a new policy of development support, which is sustainable and supportive, is necessary.
we must proceed with the phasing out of fossil fuel subsidies and encourage the allocation of funds thus freed to effective social policies and actions aimed at eliminating energy poverty in developing countries; the only definitive measure of the success of eu action is the extent to which it contributes to achieving universal access to energy while minimising greenhouse gas emissions, taking into account the principle of shared responsibility.
‒ today i voted in favour of this resolution to draw attention to the scale and implications of energy poverty in developing countries.
i think the potential of renewable energy sources in africa is very high, particularly with regard to solar and wind power generation that could ensure access to energy for everyone, especially in rural areas.
i welcome the various initiatives at international level to promote access to sustainable energy in developing countries, particularly in africa, but i stress the need for greater coordination to ensure greater efficiency.
in this context, funding bodies (bilateral aid agencies, multilateral development banks, export credit agencies and the eib) can play a key role in combating energy poverty in developing countries.
lack of access to reliable energy is a problem affecting two billion people worldwide.
we know that by 2040, africa's electricity demand will be the same as india and latin america's in 2010, and today it is also known that 70% of the energy in the black continent comes from renewable sources, and there are huge development opportunities for the solar and wind sectors.
access to electricity will certainly accelerate development, but it depends on energy governance, which can only be achieved through sound management of services and state capacity.
therefore, i support the energising development commission's initiative to provide access to sustainable energy for an additional 500 million people in developing countries by 2030.
in writing.
‒ i voted in favour of this measure, which has as its main objective to take stock of the situation of energy poverty in developing countries, highlighting the large number of people who still do not have access to electricity.
the resolution also pays attention to climate change in achieving global access.
on the other hand, africa is the continent with the greatest potential in the world in terms of renewable energy.
i therefore voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the eu should support the efforts of developing countries to break free from energy poverty and encourage the achievement of the sustainable development goals, primarily poverty eradication.
in addition, the eu can play a crucial role in technology transfer to developing countries, in order to ensure access to renewable energy for all by reducing the high costs of photovoltaic installations.
in fact, i believe that energy is a key element in creating sustainable growth in many other sectors, including health, drinking water, agriculture and telecommunications.
‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution as it underlines the need for concerted efforts by the eu and national governments on energy policies in developing countries.
i believe it is essential to engage the eu in this direction not only because access to energy is a matter of fulfilling basic human rights, but also because it is a crucial element for economic development.
‒ ms mcavan has been a strong advocate of this text, which explores an important aspect of the eu's commitments to combating climate change.
one overlooked aspect of the agreements reached at cop21 and cop22 is the effort to support developing countries to change their energy plans and consumption, since these are the areas of the world most at risk in terms of access to energy supplies and clean energy in general.
‒ this debate is about the sustainability of the development model, which is fundamental to the future of relations between the european union and developing countries, particularly those in africa.
we are talking about the continent with the greatest potential for renewable energy in the world and the greatest delays in electrification.
i voted in favour of the report because i consider it essential to call for the promotion of sustainable access to affordable energy for those countries.
in the 2014-2020 programming period, eu development assistance in the energy sector has increased considerably, as has international coordination for these initiatives, which need to be increased.
finally, as has rightly been requested, i also believe it is essential, for the purpose of monitoring and the constant need to monitor progress in this field, that the commission verifies whether the percentages of funds for energy in developing countries are allocated to the different expenditure headings which exploit in particular renewable resources and reach the most peripheral regions.
‒ considering the key role of energy in ensuring the fulfilment of certain human rights, such as access to drinking water; recognising energy as an indispensable tool for economic development; and weighed the importance of clean forms of energy in determining their sustainability; we support the mcavan report.
in this region, access to energy is particularly poor, the lowest in the world, but renewable energy sources are plentiful.
we also agree with the emphasis on the importance of the sustainable and environmental dimension of energy.
the increase in co2 emissions, of which 20% is emitted by deforestation, and more generally the effects of climate change increase the poverty of the most vulnerable regions, which are not responsible for causing the phenomenon.
the increase in drought and energy poverty is also aggravating and, more and more often, directly causing wars and migration.
to this end, we share the desire for the integration of a gender perspective in european energy policies.
‒ sustainable access to affordable energy is the prerequisite for meeting basic human needs and rights and for the development of any economic activity.
in africa, 600 million people still lack access to electricity, and that number is rising, as the rate of population growth is faster than the rate at which access to energy is expanding.
the vast majority of the continent's energy consumption also comes from the use of biomass, which has a very negative impact on the environment in terms of deforestation, soil erosion and desertification, and on the lives of women, who are forced to make enormous sacrifices to collect wood and prepare meals using outdated and inefficient methods.
yet africa is the continent with the greatest potential in the world for renewable energy production, wind and hydro.
europe, through its development cooperation instruments and programmes and in accordance with the principles of climate justice, i.e.
sharing the burden of environmental policies in a fair and equitable way, must support the efforts of local governments, promote investment and provide technical assistance to ensure access to energy for all.
access to energy is essential to meet some of the basic needs that underpin sustainable economic development, such as access to sanitation, heating and education.
this number is set to increase as population growth in this area does not correspond to an improvement in access to energy.
i decided to vote in favour of this resolution, sharing the need for governments and stakeholders to take an active and focused part in the fight against energy poverty, also with the help of the eu.
‒ access to energy is essential for the economic development of a state.
attention to the implications of energy poverty in developing countries and a stronger eu involvement in efforts to combat it must be a short-term objective pursued by the eu institutions.
energy governance, although difficult to implement, is essential for economic and human development in developing countries.
these factors of financial transparency, liberalisation of services and incentives to competitiveness will enable maritime transport to grow, to the benefit not only of trade but also of its sustainability.
the main objective was to protect, through sustainable fishing, a particularly fragile habitat where fish stocks are depleted and where species are present that reproduce very slowly.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is essential to ensure, as far as possible, the sustainable exploitation of deep-sea stocks, reducing the environmental impact and implementing the information base necessary for scientific evaluation.
in this context, ccis are a useful link in the strategy for international cultural relations between the constantly evolving ict environment and the enhancement of a stronger european consciousness, creating a sense of belonging and mutual understanding among citizens of the various member states.
we must ensure that young people receive an education which will enable them to find satisfactory employment and develop their professional careers: education is perhaps the only way to escape a degraded environment.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, one hundred, two hundred, three hundred, four hundred, five hundred, six hundred... that 600 euros, ladies and gentlemen, is effectively buried on page 12 of the second annex to the communication on clean energy for all.
i genuinely appreciate the work of those who have written over four thousand pages of professional, accurate and interlinked documents, but there is one capital thing missing: the dirty and deadly fossil energy, climatically, health and geopolitically, should not be subsidized any more than what you call clean energy: i find it immoral, obscene and anachronistic, in fact suicidal.
climate stability, circularity, thermodynamic balance, the only rules as certain and eternal as death, to which we must respond.
so for the sake of justice and science, if you don't want to eliminate fossil fuel subsidies, at least put them on the plate, print at least 300 billion green money a year, real green energy money.
it is a commitment that has come a long way, announced a few months ago and that we have been following very closely as a group ever since, and which today, in time, is becoming an articulated proposal for the government of the energy challenges.
in this spirit, and therefore with a positive eye, i have examined the package, and i fully understand the general direction proposed: the commission's proposal is to open up energy markets to the challenges of modernity, to monitor and manage the profound changes already under way, and to focus on clean energy at competitive costs.
it is still too early, i think, to grasp all the implications of this package, and i agree with what mr van brempt has said on this point, but some aspects are already clear to me: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one.
and with this logic of listening to act, i have been presenting the energy package to families, businesses, young people, the elderly, and during this listening phase, what emerges?
the need to reduce energy costs.
the cry of pain of many families who cannot afford a basic necessity, namely the use of energy, the cry of pain that also comes from citizens who present me with bills of one hundred euros a month just to afford the light, that is, electricity.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as your communication says, the cheapest energy is the energy we do not consume.
the key to this apparent paradox is energy efficiency, which i consider to be an absolute priority alongside renewables.
it is an opportunity for citizens, for the energy bill, for the improvement of the environment, for the health of citizens, yes, i mean clean air as you say, if i think about what is happening in some european cities, where the air is now unbreathable.
i therefore formally invite the commission to work more closely with the commissioners on industry, innovation and the budget, because energy efficiency means, first of all, support for research in the field of environmental technology, for housing, transport and industry itself.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposals put forward are, on the whole, in line with the desire to achieve a transition to a sustainable system that combines low carbon emissions, security of supply, the active role of consumers, environmental benefits, public health and, it should be said, the competitiveness of our system.
a fact: in 2015 alone, renewable energy attracted more than eur 300 billion of investment worldwide and stimulates new technologies in which europe enjoys a competitive advantage.
while i welcome the priorities assigned to energy efficiency, i would like to stress the concern with regard to the measures planned for renewable energy.
the target remains at 27%, and a number of pro-renewable measures are being eliminated, while we still have subsidies for fossil fuels, and in particular for coal.
this is done by focusing on energy efficiency, renewables, research and innovation, connected and automated mobility, low impact, but also - and finally stated in clear letters - on the new role attributed to the citizen for self-production and self-consumption.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the efsi and its impact on the environment.
but it will become even more so when not a penny of european money goes to supporting oil, coal and fossil fuels, or to financing the incineration of waste (or nuclear).
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of certain substances and preparations is a very good one.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
i am speaking as chairman of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection about the contribution of the committee on the environment to this dossier.
furthermore, i believe that the eu-algeria agreement should promote: regular dialogue on political and security matters; economic, commercial and financial cooperation, aimed in particular at the progressive liberalisation of trade, sustainable development of the mediterranean region and investment; social, cultural and educational cooperation, in particular through intercultural dialogue, control of migration, skills development, promotion of labour law and equality between women and men.
the commission will therefore be able to provide financial assistance for the implementation of the union's programmes, which are aimed in particular at the progressive liberalization of trade, the sustainable development of the region and investment.
‒ technological development has radically changed the methods and forms of fishing, an activity which today can involve areas that were unthinkable just a few years ago and have a strong impact on the environment and biodiversity.
it is essential to ensure the sustainable exploitation of deep-sea stocks by reducing the environmental impact of deep-sea fishing and to improve the information base necessary for scientific evaluation.
these include a ban on trawling below 800 metres (up to 400 metres in areas with particularly sensitive ecosystems), increased controls and environmental protection, and stricter transparency rules.
‒ i welcome the adoption of a new regulation as it is all the more necessary to put in place effective measures to address the vulnerability of stocks and to establish a sustainable level of fishing that protects habitats and reduces unwanted by-catches throughout the north-east atlantic.
it is therefore essential not only to establish a catch register but also to commit member states to geographically delimiting the areas where deep-sea fishing is permitted and to provide data and impact studies on the vulnerability of the ecosystem.
this new provision will help protect vulnerable deep-sea marine ecosystems, ensure more sustainable fisheries and reduce unwanted catches.
it has been provided that above 400 metres and in case of catches in vulnerable ecosystems, fishing vessels engaged in deep-sea fishing activities will have to cease their activities and move at least 5 miles away from the catch zone of the ecosystem.
‒ i voted against the recommendation of my colleague concerning the adoption of the regulation establishing specific conditions for fishing and deep-sea stocks and fishing in international waters in the north-east atlantic area, because, while i share the principle of safeguarding the marine ecosystem, with particular reference to the most vulnerable species, i believe that the introduction of stricter rules in the regulation itself could have a negative socioeconomic impact.
i am thinking of the ban on all deep-sea dredging, including exploratory dredging, over 800 metres, which has no scientific basis, and the difficulty of explaining to a bona fide operator in the sector that this formerly legal activity is now unworkable; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
the new regulation will introduce a number of specific measures to ensure sustainable deep-sea fishing and to prevent damage to the seabed and its life forms, such as cold-water coral reefs, sponge gardens and seamount ecosystems.
a ban on trawling at depths of more than 800 metres or more than 400 metres in the presence of a vulnerable marine ecosystem will be introduced, and a 'geographical footprint' will be defined so that fishing vessels can only fish in areas already affected by fishing activities.
i have decided to vote in favour of this regulation because the new proposal strikes the right balance between protecting the environment and responsible management of this fishery.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
among the issues that need to be tackled most urgently are immigration through partnership with africa to manage the phenomenon, economic recovery and the fight against unemployment through, for example, the new digital agenda, the european fund for strategic investments, energy policy.
‒ in the 21st century, the commitment to smart and sustainable growth cannot be without the valuable contribution that the cultural and creative industries can make to the creation of a more competitive and at the same time more inclusive economic system.
the text identifies some measures to be taken, such as: collect reliable statistics and data on the sector; fostering innovation and entrepreneurship by facilitating crossover; improving access to finance; supporting new business models and, above all, developing skills, such as commercial skills, to meet the changing needs of an environment increasingly affected by the transition to the digital economy and the disruption of traditional value chains.
in a time of sluggish economic recovery, the cultural and creative industries are a potential 'to be unlocked', by exploiting their significant impact in terms of sustainable growth and employment.
in this context, ccis are a useful link in the strategy for international cultural relations between the constantly evolving ict environment and the development of a stronger european consciousness, creating a sense of belonging and mutual understanding among citizens of the various member countries.
europe must be able to fully exploit the new sources of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth that are inherent in the cultural and creative industries.
the cultural and creative industries are a strategic sector for job creation and sustainable development.
we must be consistent and ensure respect for human rights both inside and outside the european union and we must do this with great energy, we must fundamentally understand that the question of human rights is an essential question of all european union policies.
this year's annual report deals in a concise but organic way with topics of considerable importance: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new strategy for the sustainable development of the mediterranean, in particular the implementation of the new strategy for the mediterranean, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new strategy for the mediterranean, in particular the implementation of the new strategy for the mediterranean.
accession to the trade agreement which the union has already signed with colombia and peru would be a vital development opportunity for ecuador, a sustainable and economic development which must, however, be necessarily linked to social and democratic development.
i have identified three principles which i believe should guide the new cap: market resilience, more sustainable agricultural production and progress on generational renewal.
i fully agree with the central thesis of this report that we need to maintain sustainable agricultural production in europe, and for this we need to seek efficient ways to ensure farmers can cope with risks and crises.
there are also other instruments available to help market actors to become more resilient and sustainable by their own means.
globalisation, the instability and sophistication of agricultural markets, the increasing variability of supply due to climate instability, the increase of health risks and the fragile balance of the food chain will continue to have a negative impact on farmers' exposure to price volatility.
a more effective policy is needed, with targeted instruments to ensure sustainable agricultural production, accompanied by fair and remunerative prices that mitigate the negative effects on farmers of exposure to price volatility.
to protect agricultural enterprises in a market-oriented cap, it is necessary to further develop climate, health and economic risk management tools, income stabilisation tools, individual provisioning mechanisms, mutual funds and income stabilisation tools.
the fact that we are not governing imports, but rather the invasion of low-cost, low-quality products, is undermining the efforts of our farmers, the efforts of heroic farmers who protect the environment, sow the produce, irrigate it, treat it, harvest it, store it and try to market it.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the fall in the prices of many agricultural products, together with the extreme volatility which has in recent years led to ever wider, unpredictable and unfortunately often downward price fluctuations, is putting the sustainability of a sector as vital to the european economy as the agri-food sector at serious risk.
the economy; a more ambitious investment plan focusing on the energy transition; a more substantial youth guarantee to respond to the real tragedy of europe today, which is youth unemployment; a real investment plan for and with africa, as we socialists have long called for; a more moral economy, fighting fraud and tax evasion; the sustainable development; a more ambitious climate and energy package; a 40% renewable energy target; a great deal of attention to food safety.
the voice of parliament cannot be ignored, and the resolution of this house on the holistic approach to migration must be the basis for discussion on the sustainable management of migration.
urban planning, environmental protection and the marketing of biodegradable and environmentally friendly consumer goods should not be underestimated.
accession to the trade agreement will allow the latin american country to strengthen its economy by encouraging the adoption of more progressive social and environmental policies, while allowing the eu to regain its position in a region that is increasingly influenced by the asian and pacific states.
the obligation for the commission to inform parliament about its activities related to the implementation and monitoring of this agreement, in particular as regards the obligations of sustainable development, will contribute to the monitoring, evaluation and follow-up of european trade policy.
ecuador is facing a difficult situation in the face of the collapse in oil prices, the devaluation of the currencies of the andean countries and, last but not least, the tragic earthquake that hit the country in april 2016. i believe that the rapid and complete entry into force and implementation of this agreement will enable ecuador to restart its economy and to pursue the new policy guidelines for incentives for sustainable economic and social development.
the negotiations concluded with ecuador are therefore not surprising but encourage the promotion of policies for sustainable economic and social development along the lines of the plans adopted by colombia and peru for structural reforms.
‒ the rapid and full entry into force and implementation of this agreement will enable ecuador to pursue the new policy incentive orientations for the sustainable economic and social development of the country in a complex regional and international context.
‒ i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the protocol of accession to the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, to take account of the accession of ecuador, because this is a legal act necessary to enable the south american country to benefit from important trade advantages, such as a progressive opening of the markets for goods, services, public procurement, the abolition of most tariffs, a chapter on trade and sustainable development with ambitious provisions on labour and environmental protection.
the agreement also includes trade and sustainable development, including ambitious labour and environmental protection frameworks.
the agreement ensures that fishing vessels from denmark, norway and sweden comply with the laws, regulations and control and enforcement measures for the conservation and sustainable use of biological resources in the skagerrak.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the resolution reiterates the positive assessment of the agreement, which mutually guarantees continuity of access to the skagerrak fishing zones for vessels from denmark, sweden and norway, while allowing the conservation and sustainable use of biological resources.
‒ we welcome this agreement which guarantees reciprocal access for vessels from denmark, norway and sweden for the conservation and sustainable use of biological resources in the skagerrak.
i note that the eu lost almost half of its market share in the automotive industry between 2000 and 2015. in this context, i stress the importance of maintaining a solid industrial base for the automotive sector in europe, including through the export to third countries of a wider range of high-quality vehicles with sustainable technology.
i believe that research, development and innovation are becoming increasingly important, especially in relation to the need to develop low-emission and energy-efficient cars, so that europe can remain competitive and boost employment.
the decision to orient retraining services towards those economic sectors (food, environment, catering) with the greatest employment opportunities is also justified.
‒ studies show that interoperability and rail safety are central elements of the sustainable development model for the europe of the future.
rail transport should also be revitalised in view of its contribution to sustainable mobility in our societies.
in view of the expected positive effects on the competitiveness and sustainability of the railway sector and the resulting boost to economic growth, i have decided to vote in favour.
an important part of the mobility of european citizens and of environmentally and socially sustainable development depends on the safety and efficiency of european railways.
finally, the system focuses on the needs of customers and skilled workers, and on meeting climate change objectives.
the commission has already proposed a number of amendments to the directive, including a number of amendments to the directive on the protection of the environment.
‒ modernising port services and facilities is a key element in contributing to a more efficient, interconnected and sustainable operation of the ten-t, the trans-european transport networks, by defining a framework that will improve the efficiency of all ports and help them to cope with changing requirements in the logistics and transport sectors.
the objective of the regulation is to contribute to a more efficient, interconnected and sustainable operation of the ten-t by establishing a framework to improve the efficiency of all ports and help them to cope with changing logistics and transport requirements.
i therefore believe that we need to address the current inefficiencies in the supply chain and sustainable transport.
i vote in favour of the report on market access for port services and financial transparency of ports to create a policy framework to increase the efficiency of ports, allowing them to adapt to changes in the logistics and transport sectors, with the aim of achieving more efficient, sustainable and interconnected operation.
the proposal positively aims to implement a more efficient, interconnected, and sustainable functioning of the ten-t through the improvement of performance of ports.
the same applies to coal, and to this must be added the respect for european climate policies.
for steel, the social and environmental impact, both on workers and on local communities: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's research programmes are not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies.
for coal, these concerns are compounded by respect for climate policy objectives.
in steel, the social and environmental impact, both on workers and on local communities, as there are still plants in europe that are completely out of line and should no longer be the subject of official aid, much less for research.
for coal, the same concerns are compounded by respect for climate policy objectives.
in particular, we have tried to carry out a number of measures on the impact on employment of workers and local communities of policies to reduce consumption and emissions.
the proper use and conservation of resources is also of great importance, while respecting the environment of total safety, especially with regard to the health and safety of workers in the sector.
for steel the social and environmental impact, both on workers and on local communities.
for coal, these concerns are compounded by respect for climate policy objectives.
in the industrial and research fields, our priorities must always be actions such as reducing emissions, reducing energy consumption and environmental impact, and making better use of raw materials.
the report also stresses that conflicts, wars and hostile governments are the main causes of migration and reiterates the need to distinguish between refugees and migrants, always bearing in mind international human rights standards and with the intention of finding coherent, sustainable and long-term solutions.
‒ the european union has a great historical responsibility, facing internal and external challenges including interstate conflict, state collapse, terrorism, hybrid threats, cyber and energy insecurity, organised crime and climate change.
the european union is facing internal and external challenges, including interstate conflict, state collapse, terrorism, hybrid threats, cyber and energy insecurity, organised crime and climate change.
‒ terrorism frightens us but cannot bring us down, just as cyber and energy insecurity hamper our progress, yet they cannot stop it.
‒ the eu is in a deteriorated stability and security environment, due to hybrid threats, conflicts in neighbouring countries and russia's aggressive action in crimea and ukraine.
the european union and its citizens are undergoing a period of instability and insecurity resulting from the impact of proliferation of terrorist groups, hybrid threats, cyber and energy insecurity, organised crime and interstate conflicts.
price volatility in agricultural markets has increased in recent years due to a number of factors, including extreme weather events and the impact of climate change on human activities.
‒ the mere reflection we are about to make on the year that is drawing to a close includes the many environmental disasters that have characterised europe.
in addition, the unchallenged dominance of the processing and retail industries has imposed high prices on farmers, who have had to cope with rising energy and production costs.
price volatility is likely to increase due to a variety of causes, such as the instability and imperfection of agricultural markets, globalisation and the sophistication of agricultural markets, increasing supply variability due to climate instability, increased health risks and the fragile balance of the food chain.
the delicate balance of the food chain is now threatened by the instability of agricultural markets, which are also affected by globalisation and climate change.
i am convinced that as a result of the intense weather fluctuations, increased by climate change, and the variability in the supply of agricultural products, the market is and will always be exposed to the risk of volatility.
the agenda includes the debate on the question with request for an oral answer to the committee on medicinal products for paediatric use by giovanni la via, françoise grossetête, elena gentile, bolesław g. piecha, frédérique ries, stefan eck, joëlle mélin, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000135/2016 - b8-1818/2016).
the european paediatric haematology network has called for the promotion of a sustainable long-term strategic plan to make treatment more effective and thus improve the prognosis for those patients for whom the treatments currently available fail to focus on returning them to a life path free of complications.
support the european public research network in connection with the diagnostic and treatment institutes, establishing a relationship with the pharmaceutical industry system, simplifying procedures, speeding up administrative steps: i think we can see that this is a more than sustainable goal.
i also shared the european parliament's call for citrus fruit to be subjected to cold treatment or to an alternative, sustainable, effective and equivalent treatment before being imported into the eu, and for measures to improve the traceability of imported citrus fruit.
i also share the need to continue improving safety and environmental protection.