i'm talking about the disappearance of local markets, the homogenization of products, the decline in quality, and of course the climate impact of human activities that are focused solely on gdp growth.
and they will not be very wrong, but we should also, when we are considering a digital single market strategy, include measures to encourage consumers to make their online purchasing decisions with information about the impact of their decision on small producers and the climate.
in its 2014 competition policy report, the commission underlined that this was the year of a new start for europe, as commission president juncker stated in his commission's mandate letter for the new term that competition policy should also make an appropriate contribution to the implementation of the agenda for jobs and growth, including in the areas of the digital single market, energy policy, financial services, industrial policy and the fight against tax avoidance.
secondly, technology and innovation can help europe to be more environmental, which is very important if we want to achieve the goals set by the paris climate change agreement.
i agree that the change of legal instrument from a directive to a regulation is in line with the overall political commitment to better regulation and simplification of the regulatory environment.
this directive makes a significant contribution to the establishment and functioning of the common market and harmonises the conditions under which appliances burning gaseous fuels falling within its scope are placed on the market and/or put into service in view of the risks to gas safety and the rational use of energy.
the change of legal instrument from a directive to a regulation is in line with the overall political commitment to better regulation and simplification of the regulatory environment.
however, member states will continue to have the right to regulate other aspects of cableway installations, such as land use, regional planning and environmental protection.
the commission is empowered to provide that a requesting country is granted a special incentive arrangement for sustainable development and good governance by including it in the list of countries benefiting from gsp+.
‒ the vote rejected the following resolution in which the european parliament examines the commission's mandate to grant a special incentive for sustainable development and good governance to a requesting country, in this case kyrgyzstan, by including it on the list of beneficiary countries.
although the world health organisation recommends that sugar should not provide more than 10% of the energy content of infant formula, the use and distribution of infant formulae containing up to 30% of the energy content of sugar is currently permitted in the eu.
both the colombian government and the farc must make a political effort to reconcile their opposing positions by gradually creating an environment conducive to compromise that will allow for a lasting and durable peace.
i urge the new moldovan government, appointed just two hours ago, not to waste time in tackling reforms that are so long—awaited, and i remind the ukrainian government of the ideals of the maidan and i call on them finally to start cutting the heads of the beast named corruption.
it covers a wide range of sectors, including respect for and the strengthening of democratic principles and human rights, and the establishment of a framework for cooperation in sectors such as education, energy, the environment, justice and home affairs.
it also provides opportunities to strengthen people-to-people and expert contacts in sectors such as education, environment, fight against crime and illicit trafficking, culture and provides for further strengthening of relations and cooperation with neighbouring countries, thus contributing to ensuring stability in the region.
‒ i voted for the composition of the ep committee investigating vehicle pollution falsification.
this temporary committee will examine whether the european commission and the states have violated eu law by manipulating emissions measurement equipment by car manufacturers.
it was set up following revelations by the us that the volkswagen group had manipulated pollution measurement equipment.
‒ i voted in favour of setting up a committee of inquiry to investigate alleged breaches of eu law and maladministration in the application of union law in relation to emissions measurements in the automotive sector.
the committee of inquiry is mandated to investigate suspected emissions exceeding the limit values for the vehicles used and to collect and analyse all information on the sanctions taken by member states to prevent the alleged infringements.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because, following the terrorist attacks in paris, the application of the mutual assistance clause is a unique opportunity to lay the foundations for a strong and sustainable european defence union.
statistics show that the majority of citizens turn to the ep for help with issues relating to justice, the environment, the internal market or fundamental rights.
annual statistics show that the majority of citizens turn to the european parliament for help in dealing with issues relating to justice, the environment, the internal market or fundamental rights.
annual statistics show that the majority of citizens turn to parliament for help in dealing with issues relating to justice, the environment, the internal market or fundamental rights.
‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal for amendments to the 1998 protocol on heavy metals to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution.
this convention aims to protect human health and the environment from air pollution.
it has helped to create a system for controlling and reducing the harmful effects of transboundary air pollutant transfers on human health and the environment.
the 1998 aarhus protocol on heavy metals, which supplemented the convention, aims to reduce and control anthropogenic emissions of lead, cadmium and mercury into the atmosphere.
it requires the parties to reduce their combined annual emissions of these three metals to levels below their 1990 levels.
the aim is also to reduce emissions from industrial sources, combustion processes and waste incineration.
i support the amendments contained in the proposal, which aim to ensure a higher level of protection of human health and the environment against transboundary air pollutant transfers.
‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it supports parliament's amendments to the 1998 protocol on heavy metals to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution.
the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution aims to protect human health and the environment from air pollution.
the problem of air pollution must therefore be addressed at international level.
the convention established a framework for controlling and reducing the harmful effects of transboundary air pollutant releases on human health and the environment.
the amended protocol provides in particular for stricter limit values for dust emissions from certain large stationary sources and for more flexible transitional arrangements.
this amendment to the protocol is already implemented in existing eu legislation and will be further transposed by the adoption of a new directive setting updated national emission limits for certain atmospheric pollutants and providing for annual national emission inventories of pollutants (including lead, cadmium and mercury).
‒ i support the eu’s ratification of an update to the international agreement on controlling transboundary air pollution, specifically concerning heavy metal emissions, because these amendments will contribute to a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution.
‒ i voted in favour of this report, which supports the amendments to the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution.
i believe that these changes will help to control and reduce the harmful effects of transboundary air pollutant transfers on human health and the environment.
the amended protocol to the convention, in particular the stricter limit values for dust emissions from certain large stationary sources and the more flexible transitional arrangements, is of benefit to parties wishing to accede to the amended protocol by the end of 2019, including countries of eastern and south-eastern europe.
the ratification of this amendment will be an important step towards ensuring a higher level of protection of human health and the environment against transboundary airborne emissions.
‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it supports the amendments to the 1998 protocol on heavy metals to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution.
the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution aims to protect human health and the environment from air pollution.
the effects of air pollution are not local, but are constantly being transported by the wind.
to date, the convention has been supplemented by eight protocols covering: the financing scheme for monitoring and evaluation activities in europe; emissions of sulphur, nitrogen oxides, volatile organic compounds, transboundary pollution flows, heavy metals and persistent organic pollutants; specific national emission limits; and reduction targets for different substances.
the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution aims to protect human health and the environment from air pollution.
the problem of air pollution must therefore be addressed at international level.
the aim is to reduce emissions from industrial sources (iron and steel, non-ferrous metals), combustion processes (energy generation, road transport) and waste incineration.
parties are also required to establish and maintain inventories of pb, cd and hg emissions to ambient air, to phase out ethyl gasoline and to reduce mercury in alkaline batteries.
‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal for amendments to the 1998 protocol on heavy metals to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution.
this convention aims to protect human health and the environment from air pollution.
it has helped to create a system for controlling and reducing the harmful effects of transboundary air pollutant transfers on human health and the environment.
the 1998 aarhus protocol on persistent organic pollutants, which supplemented the convention, aims to limit, reduce or eliminate the release, ingress and discharge into the environment of pops.
parties shall ensure that operators of large stationary emission sources apply the best available techniques, that certain waste incineration plants comply with the emission limit values, etc.
i support the amendments contained in the proposal, which aim to ensure a higher level of protection of human health and the environment against transboundary air pollutant transfers.
‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it supports the adoption by parliament of the 1998 protocol on the modification of the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution to the protocol on persistent organic pollutants.
i voted in favour of this report because it supports parliament's amendments to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution and the 1998 protocol on heavy metals.
the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution aims to protect human health and the environment from air pollution.
the problem of air pollution must therefore be addressed at international level.
the convention established a framework for controlling and reducing the harmful effects of transboundary air pollutant releases on human health and the environment.
‒ i support the eu’s ratification of the 1998 update to the international agreement on controlling transboundary air pollution, specifically concerning persistent organic pollutants.
thanks to the updated implementation requirements for several substances and restrictions for dioxin and furan emissions from several sources, as well as the addition of pcbs to the substances affected by emission restrictions, these amendments will contribute to a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution.
‒ i voted in favour of this report, which supports the amendments to the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution.
i believe that these changes will help to control and reduce the harmful effects of transboundary air pollutant transfers on human health and the environment.
the amended protocol to the convention, in particular the stricter limit values for dust emissions from certain large stationary sources and the more flexible transitional arrangements, is of benefit to parties wishing to accede to the amended protocol by the end of 2019, including countries of eastern and south-eastern europe.
the ratification of this amendment will be an important step towards ensuring a higher level of protection of human health and the environment against transboundary airborne emissions.
‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it supports the amendments to the protocol on persistent organic pollutants to the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution of 1979 and the protocol of 1998. the 1998 aarhus protocol was designed to limit, reduce or eliminate emissions of persistent organic pollutants.
parties to the protocol are obliged to cease the production and use of substances harmful to the environment, to restrict the use of dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane, hexachlorcyclohexanes and polychlorinated biphenyls, and to reduce their total annual emissions of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, dioxins and hexachlorobenzene.
in this context, this document is an important step towards reducing pollution.
the problem of air pollution needs to be addressed at international level.
parties to the protocol are obliged to cease production and use of the substances concerned, to restrict the use of dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane, hexachlorcyclohexanes and polychlorinated biphenyls and to reduce their total annual emissions of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, dioxins/furans and hexachlorobenzene (hcbs).
‒ the biodiversity, the unique variety of earth's different ecosystems, habitats, species and families, from which humans are also inseparable, provides an extraordinary net value.
biodiversity is under pressure both in europe and worldwide, with species disappearing at an alarming rate.
habitat change, pollution, overpopulation, invasive alien species and climate change are the main causes of the loss of biodiversity.
in 2011, the eu set out a new strategy with six objectives: full implementation of the birds and habitats directives; maintenance and restoration of ecosystems and their functions; increasing the contribution of agriculture and forestry to the maintenance and enhancement of biodiversity; ensuring the sustainable use of fisheries resources; combating invasive alien species; and making a greater contribution to the eu's efforts to reverse the global trend of biodiversity loss.
the environmental impact of the eu-28 is twice that of the biological potential.
i agree that more political will is needed to make the problem of biodiversity loss a real political priority.
better implementation and monitoring of current legislation is also a prerequisite for progress, as is investment in nature and biodiversity.
‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it is the parliament's position on the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy.
biodiversity, the unique variety of earth's different ecosystems, habitats, species and families, from which humans are also inseparable, provides an extraordinary net value.
human life is highly dependent on biodiversity for many valuable ecosystem functions: clean air, clean water, raw materials, pollinators and flood protection are just a few.
biodiversity is under pressure both globally and in europe.
habitat change, pollution, overpopulation, invasive alien species and climate change are the main causes of the loss of biodiversity.
in 2011, the eu developed a new strategy with the main objective of halting the loss of biodiversity and ecosystem functions, restoring as much as possible by 2020 and reversing the global trend of biodiversity loss.
the environmental impact of the eu-28 is twice that of the biological potential.
the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy nevertheless shows that biodiversity loss continues: more than three quarters of the important natural habitats in the eu are now in an unfavourable state, and a quarter of all species are threatened with extinction.
as a result, i support this committee on the environment’s report, and have voted in favour of it.
‒ the i voted in favour of the proposal for a mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy.
the year 2010 was not a success in europe's quest to halt the loss of biodiversity.
in this strategy, eu heads of state and government have defined a key objective to halt the loss of biodiversity and ecosystem functions and to restore them as much as possible by 2020. the ep's report sets out the main challenges to achieve these objectives.
i agree with the report on the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy.
progress towards the target of halting biodiversity loss by 2020 is welcome in many areas, but it is not enough and more needs to be done.
particular attention should be paid to biodiversity policy, as biodiversity loss increases the risk of irreversible changes and undermines economic development and societal resilience.
it is also necessary to apply the precautionary principle fully in the authorisation of uses and releases of live modified organisms into the environment.
in view of the negative impact of these activities on the climate, the environment and biodiversity, i am of the opinion that member states should not issue permits for such activities.
in this context, the resolution calls for greater attention to be paid to soil conservation, encourages member states not to authorise any new hydraulic drying operations in the european union and stresses that cap financial resources should not be allocated to subsidize environmentally harmful activities, but should be directed towards financing sustainable agricultural practices.
‒ the i supported the report by mr demesmaeker, as it highlights the importance of environmental issues.
he said that the main factors and causes of biodiversity loss in the eu and beyond are land-use change linked to the dispersal, degradation and destruction of animal habitats, as well as marine habits that are incompatible with the principle of the development and use of the seas.
in this context, indicators that provide a meaningful and scientific assessment of the status of biodiversity in a given zone or area and that maintain a wise and sustainable use of resources both at eu and global level need to be identified and defined.
a more sustainable economy and a reduction in overconsumption could reduce the eu's future dependence on natural resources, especially those from outside europe.
i would stress that the loss of biodiversity has a very high economic cost for society, which has not yet been sufficiently integrated into economic and other policies.
i stress that political will at the highest level is essential to preserve biodiversity and halt its loss.
i believe that it is of the utmost importance to implement and enforce existing legislation and to further integrate the issue of biodiversity protection into other policy areas.
in particular, i encourage regional and local authorities in the member states to provide information and raise awareness about biodiversity.
georgia will gain in terms of job creation, encouraging growth and investment and creating a predictable and liberal business environment.
the draft commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law as it is incompatible with the objective of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 and regulation (ec) no 396/2005 to establish a framework for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests with regard to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market.
the ec authorisations for the marketing of food and feed containing genetically modified beans fg72 from monsanto europe s.a. do not comply with the principles of eu legislation aimed at ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests.
it is essential to ensure a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests throughout the eu.
in the eu's single market, producers must compete on a level playing field, taking account not only of economic but also of social and ecological principles.
firstly, there is too little information and too little reliable scientific evidence to say that gmos and the food they produce are completely safe for the environment and for us.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i do not understand why the european commission does not want to ensure a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests in relation to genetically modified food and feed.
‒ i voted in favour of this proposal to ask the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision concerning the authorisation of the placing on the market of genetically modified soybean mon 87708 × mon 89788. the draft commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law as it is incompatible with the objective of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 and regulation (ec) no 396/2005 to establish a framework for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests with regard to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market.
‒ i voted against the commission decision authorising the import into the eu of three genetically modified soybeans 87708 × mon 89788. the ec authorisations for the marketing of food and feed containing genetically modified beans 87708 × mon 89788 from monsanto europe s.a. do not comply with the principles laid down in eu legislation aiming at ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests.
potential environmental hazards: genetic contamination, uncontrolled release of genes into the environment.
the risk to biodiversity.
‒ i voted in favour of this proposal to ask the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision concerning the authorisation of the placing on the market of genetically modified soybean mon 87705 × mon 89788. the draft commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law as it is incompatible with the objective of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 and regulation (ec) no 396/2005 to establish a framework for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests with regard to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market.
‒ i voted against the commission decision authorising the import into the eu of three genetically modified soybeans 87705 × mon 89788. the ec authorisations for the marketing of food and feed containing genetically modified beans 87705 × mon 89788 from monsanto europe s.a. do not comply with the principles laid down in eu legislation aiming at ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests.
‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which calls on the commission to withdraw the draft regulation and to submit a new draft regulation by 1 april 2016 to establish real driving emissions measurements for all vehicles.
the european commission has proposed to measure vehicle pollution in real road conditions instead of in laboratories from september 2017. given the higher pollution levels under these conditions, the potential errors in the new measurement system and the proposals from the eu member states, the commission decided to allow the emission limits for nitrogen oxides (80 mg/km) to be exceeded by up to 110% by the beginning of 2020 and by 50% thereafter.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it calls on the commission to withdraw the draft regulation on emissions from passenger and commercial vehicles (euro 6) and to submit a new draft regulation without delay to require all vehicles to be subject to real driving emissions measurements in order to ensure effective control of emissions.
‒ i voted in favour of parliament’s objection pursuant to rule 106 on emissions from light passenger and commercial vehicles (euro 6).
there should be set a more efficient emission measurement while driving identified vehicles (euro6) in actual driving conditions in order to ensure control efficiency regarding emissions.
i support the motion for a resolution tabled calling on the commission to withdraw the draft regulation and to submit a new draft regulation without delay and by 1 april 2016. the decision, which increases the permissible emission limits for nitrogen oxides from diesel engines by more than 100%, is contrary to the interests of citizens and to the objectives of safety and environmental policy.
we need to reduce emission limits and ensure that vehicles are much cleaner in terms of atmospheric pollutants that are harmful to human health.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe it was necessary to veto the scandalous decision of the european commission and the member states' representatives to increase the permissible limits for nitrogen oxide emissions from diesel engines by more than 100%.
in the parliament's view, consumer rights and social and environmental standards are not barriers to trade but an indisputable cornerstone of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, and therefore the eu's trade policy must always respect the objectives of economic, social and territorial cohesion.
it will be extremely difficult to emerge from the economic crisis and to ensure long-term sustainable economic growth and the well-being of all europeans unless we harness the potential of our cities and regions.
it is more formal, despite the fact that local authorities and communities are the closest to the people and are the most able to identify the most urgent needs and plan actions, especially in the light of regional disparities that are only deepening as migration flows, globalisation and climate change take their toll.
it is also an opportunity to better start a bottom-up process to ensure sustainable economic growth, support job creation, entrepreneurship and innovation at the level of the local and regional economy, as well as to improve the quality of life of citizens, build solidarity and strengthen the development of the eu's regions.
the erdf regulation provides that 5% of the erdf should be allocated to promoting integrated sustainable urban development actions and that the bodies at urban, subregional and local level responsible for the implementation of sustainable urban strategies should be responsible for actions, at least in relation to the selection of operations.
‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution assessing serbia's progress towards eu membership in 2015. the resolution discusses democratic reforms, the rule of law, the human rights situation in serbia, as well as the country's environmental, transport, energy and regional cooperation policies, and identifies the main areas of reform that would need to be implemented in order to integrate into the eu.
the report also calls for greater focus on clean energy in serbia.
at the same time, the commission is invited to support the efforts of the serbian government to reduce the country's dependence on imported energy by diversifying the supply of serbian gas.
these steps are important not only for serbia but also for the european union in the context of both security and climate change.
the eu islands are also peripheral regions at the eu's external borders and are particularly vulnerable to the challenges europe is currently facing, such as globalisation, demographic trends, climate change, energy supply and increasing migration flows, particularly in the south.
the commission should initiate a thorough investigation and analysis of the additional costs incurred by the island in terms of energy supply and market access for its transport system for people and goods as a result of its situation.
whereas the economic crisis has led to a sharp reduction in the national and regional budgets of many member states, as a result of limited funding opportunities in many sectors, leading to a 20% reduction in public investment; whereas, as indicated in the sixth report on economic, social and territorial cohesion, the crisis has severely affected the development potential of many disadvantaged regions, including islands; the eu islands are also peripheral regions at the eu's external borders and are particularly vulnerable to the challenges currently facing europe, such as the impact of globalisation, demographic trends, climate change, energy supply and increasing migration flows, particularly in the south.
the eu's islands, peripheral regions at the eu's external borders, are particularly vulnerable to the challenges facing europe today, such as the impact of globalisation, demographic trends, climate change, energy supply and - especially in the southern areas - increasing migration flows.
the text refers to the fact that mediterranean islands are being flooded by large numbers of migrants, that many islands are still isolated and lack adequate digital capacity, and that they do not exploit the potential of wind, solar and water, which can become important alternative energy sources.
the eu's cohesion policy for the 2014-2020 programming period is the main instrument for investment across all eu regions to ensure sustainable economic growth, support job creation, entrepreneurship and innovation.
the eu's cohesion policy remains the key instrument for the 2014-2020 programming period, an investment tool that covers all eu regions and, at the same time, provides an opportunity to better launch a bottom-up process to ensure sustainable economic growth, support job creation, entrepreneurship and innovation at the level of the local and regional economies, while improving the quality of life of citizens, building solidarity and strengthening the development of eu regions.
secondly, it underlines the need for partnerships that must be based on the specific needs and characteristics of the region, given that different regions face different challenges of globalisation, climate change, energy security, migration flows and increasing urbanisation or other.
britain also plays a role as a bridge to transatlantic cooperation - particularly important in today's fragile international environment.
the walloon region, with its deep glass production tradition, is currently experiencing serious difficulties in the union trade in glass products, and in addition there is overcapacity in asia, while in europe there are higher production costs and stricter environmental protection standards.
the walloon region, with its deep glass production tradition, is currently experiencing serious difficulties in the union trade in glass products, and in addition there is overcapacity in asia, while in europe there are higher production costs and stricter environmental protection standards.
it calls for further reductions in labour taxation and the sustainability of social protection systems, improved tax collection, the fight against tax fraud and evasion, measures against aggressive tax planning and tax havens.
this is why we need to develop a long-term strategy for sustainable economic growth.
we also want to live in a cleaner environment and take advantage of the opportunities offered by the digital revolution and other technological innovations.
attention should therefore be given to ways of stimulating debt reduction and new investments to support sustainable and inclusive growth.
it also calls for further reductions in labour taxation and for the sustainability of social protection systems.
in this respect, quality employment and growth should be at the heart of member states' and eu policy measures, especially those targeting young people and those over 55, as a way of building a more sustainable social economy in the eu.
the communication on the governance of the single market reiterates the call to integrate the single market pillar into the european semester by creating a framework for the continuous monitoring and identification of country-specific barriers to the single market, the assessment of single market integration and competitiveness, and the focus on specific priorities in areas where action would have the greatest impact on growth and job creation, including sustainable business development.
i hope that this agreement will help to ensure a long-term favourable environment in tunisia, encouraging long-term investment in key, dynamic and value-added sectors of the economy, such as tourism, energy, including renewable energy sources, high-tech services, the digital economy and data exchange.
member states must implement sustainable and socially balanced structural reforms.
i agree that the agreements must include investment, trade in goods and services, electronic commerce, public procurement, energy, state-owned enterprises, competition, the fight against corruption, technological research and, in particular, the needs of smes.
the commission should carry out a comprehensive assessment of the sustainability impact of potential agreements as soon as possible in order to fully assess the potential benefits and drawbacks of strengthening trade and investment links between the eu and australia and between the eu and new zealand for both residents and businesses.
the new animal health rules will ensure animal health and welfare, public health protection, environmental protection and the interdependence of animal and public health.
this is because allowing this market access will connect ports to the trans-european network, encourage innovation and modernisation of port services, promote social dialogue and the environmental profile of ports, as well as increasing investment in them.
this would create a targeted, balanced and sustainable development of the eu seaports sector.
‒ i support the promotion of gender mainstreaming in the eu, because achieving gender equality is central to the protection of human rights, the functioning of democracy, respect for the rule of law, and economic growth, social inclusion and sustainability.
improving fuel quality, at least until we have sufficiently widespread or developed sufficiently powerful fuel-efficient alternatives, such as solar energy an important means of cleaning up the environment.
at the same time, i urge the commission to remember that nature knows no borders and that environmental quality must be pursued not only in the eu but also in the rest of the planet.
the programmes horizon 2020, cosme, sme funding programmes, erasmus+, as well as the programme and policy instruments supporting the creation of an environment conducive to innovation and contributing to the successful implementation of the europe 2020 strategy, are important.
i support the provisions contained in the resolution which aim to ensure that the revenue of the union budget is more independent, stable, simple, fair, sustainable and predictable, and to reduce the burden of excessive expenditure on national budgets and increase transparency for citizens without increasing their overall tax burden.
unfortunately, as a joke about their plight, the 2017 budgetary guidelines only mention agriculture, trade with russia, falling prices and climate change in a single, meaningless sentence.
‒ the eu must have a common legal framework to adequately protect public health, animal health and the environment and ensure food safety.
this can only be achieved if the right business environment and measures are in place to promote the digital transformation and if these technologies are in line with the eu data protection legal framework, taking into account the risks and challenges associated with fundamental rights, in particular privacy and data protection.
we all know that many pig farms have taken out loans to modernise their production and to meet animal welfare and environmental requirements.
it should be noted that the involvement of acp countries in the rules-based global trading system is a crucial step towards promoting their sustainable development, eradicating poverty and improving living conditions.
the objective of the proposal is to strengthen cooperation between the union and greenland and to promote a partnership framework that will lead to the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible use of fisheries resources in the greenland fishing zone, taking into account the interests of both parties.
it strengthens cooperation between the eu and two countries as well as promoting a partnership framework in which to develop a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible exploitation of fishery resources in the greenlandic fishing zone.
in addition, a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible use of fisheries resources will be developed in the greenland fishing zone.
this can be achieved by taking measures for sustainable use and conservation of resources.
‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to develop a new international legally binding instrument for the conservation and sustainable use of marine biodiversity in areas beyond national jurisdiction.
with regard to the effectiveness of the current system, it is important to establish a comprehensive global framework to better address the conservation of marine biodiversity and to develop an international legally binding instrument.
‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which deals with the issues of fisheries in the international agreement on marine biodiversity in areas beyond national jurisdiction (united nations convention on the law of the sea).
the european parliament's position is that maritime activities are changing and multiplying rapidly, and that the pressure to maintain and conserve marine biodiversity is therefore constantly increasing.
it is difficult to imagine an effective and well-coordinated measure for marine biodiversity that does not include one of the most important activities in the waters - fishing.
another important aspect is that the eu plays a key role in the global management of the seas and oceans and is responsible for adopting proactive policies for the protection of marine biodiversity worldwide.
it is therefore essential to establish a new international legally binding instrument under the unclos on the conservation and sustainable use of marine biological diversity in areas beyond national jurisdiction, based on a decision by the un general assembly.
the new legal framework will close the existing legal gap, ensure the conservation of marine biodiversity and the sustainable use of resources, and enable all operators at sea to coordinate their actions and consult each other.
on 19 june 2015, the un general assembly adopted a resolution on the development of an international legally binding instrument under the unclos on the conservation and sustainable use of marine biological diversity in areas beyond national jurisdiction.
the main purpose of this report is to highlight the objectives of the resolution and to fill the gaps by extending the powers of global, regional or sectoral authorities to cover the impact of fishing on marine biodiversity in areas beyond national jurisdiction.
this is crucial for sustainable fisheries in the long term.
the existing provisions were drafted 30 years ago and do not take into account current trade needs and the latest conservation standards for marine and ocean biodiversity.
it should be noted that impact assessments need to be comprehensive in order to properly assess the impact of regulation on the economy, the social sphere, the environment and the fundamental rights of citizens.
in addition, more flexible rules should apply to smes and micro-enterprises should be given the possibility to be exempted from the requirements whenever possible, ensuring that the social, environmental and economic objectives of the proposed act are achieved in an equally effective manner.
the sustainable integration of vocational training students into the labour market and their participation in international mobility programmes must be facilitated.
coastal fishing is a very important form of fishing in the eu, providing high employment and being socially and environmentally sustainable.
it is particularly important because it provides high employment and is a socially and environmentally sustainable form of fishing.
the document calls on the commission and on member states to gradually increase the quotas allocated to non-industrial fisheries, in order to boost socially and sustainable forms of fishing.
i agree that the best strategy to achieve the eu's objective of promoting sustainable fisheries is to use the eu's influence in the international arena to improve fisheries management and transparency standards, to encourage a race for higher rather than lower standards.
to varying degrees, these shipyards tend to operate with less stringent environmental, safety and social standards and benefit from high subsidies and often lower levels of taxation.
it is clear that the best strategy to achieve the eu's objective of promoting sustainable fisheries is to use the eu's influence in the international arena to improve fisheries management and transparency standards, to encourage a race for higher rather than lower standards.
the eu’s best strategy for promoting sustainable fisheries is to enhance social and environmental standards, to better control its own external fleet and to use the eu’s leadership on the international scene to improve fisheries management.
the communication sends an unambiguous message that the eu's objective of promoting sustainable fisheries requires the use of the eu's influence in the international arena to improve fisheries management and transparency standards, to encourage a race for higher, not lower, standards.
this is also ensured by encouraging third countries, starting with those with which the eu negotiates sustainable fisheries partnership agreements, to develop a common regulatory framework for eu and non-eu entities in the fisheries, processing and marketing sectors.
this would ensure transparency and increase competition in the environmental aspects of fishing.
on 1 february 2014 he was appointed as a member of college ii (structural, transport and energy policies) and is also the rapporteur for the economic, social and territorial cohesion section and responsible for the audit of the gni and the audit of the activities in the field of regional policy and the structural funds.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution in which the european parliament states that the draft commission implementing regulation on the renewal of the active substance glyphosate does not ensure a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, in which the european parliament takes the view that the draft commission implementing regulation on the renewal of the active substance glyphosate does not ensure a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment.
in particular, no scientific evidence has been provided that the substance does not present any unacceptable risk to human health, animal health or the environment.
furthermore, i support a call for a swift and full implementation of the fifth pillar of the european energy union and believe that it is in the strategic interest of the eu to endow the commission with a prerogative to co-negotiate and co-sign contracts on energy supplies with third countries.
‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which examines the eu's position in a changing global environment.
the european parliament also reiterates the eu’s strong interest in a prosperous, peaceful, democratic, stable, and inclusive central asia that functions as an economically and environmentally sustainable region, as stated in the strategy of 2007.
in writing.
relations based on the principles of responsibility and autonomy should be maintained in order to achieve a democratic, stable, economically and environmentally sustainable and prosperous central asia.
particular attention shall be paid to strengthening trade and energy links between the eu and the central asian countries and to enhancing cooperation on security and stability issues, including sustainable management of natural resources.
the report focuses on the development of democracy, respect for human rights, youth education and sustainable growth.
unfortunately, it took the paris and brussels massacres for some groups in parliament to understand that defending human rights starts with creating a safe environment.
this report aims to link social policy and energy policy in the european debate.
a better allocation of eu funds to energy-poor households would also bring these objectives closer to reality.
the initiative introduces the concept of a european winter heating moratorium to protect households already experiencing energy poverty or those at risk of being cut off from services due to late payment of utility bills.
it is also important to develop reforms aimed at greater efficiency, environmental sustainability and effectiveness.
the european parliament considers that structural and organisational reforms aimed at greater efficiency, environmental sustainability and effectiveness should be pursued in the context of a thorough examination of the possibilities for synergies and cost savings.
to combat poverty, the proposal calls for increased support for poor households and investment in energy efficiency projects that can reduce heating bills.
‒ the i voted in favour of this report to combat energy poverty and reduce household costs.
it should be noted that the european union is moving away from the poverty target of the europe 2020 strategy, while the eu has a corresponding unrealised potential to reduce the high consumption costs of impoverished households by targeting existing renewable energy and energy efficiency projects to energy deprived households, to achieve the europe 2020 target and also to achieve the energy efficiency, consumption and renewable energy targets.
at european level, however, a comprehensive approach is needed, linking economic policy, employment policy, education, energy and transport policy more closely with social policy, building on the best practices of recent years.
by 2030, demand for food, water and energy is projected to increase by 50 percent, 40 percent and 30 percent respectively.
while communication is still unclear at the level of the commitments to be undertaken, country strategy papers, national indicative programmes and budget support can be the most valuable tools for initiating reforms of the business environment in partner countries.
by 2030, demand for food, water and energy is projected to increase by 50 percent, 40 percent and 30 percent respectively.
in developing countries, private sector investment in energy, electricity and transport projects is expected to generate double-digit returns in most cases.
in order to ensure the prosperity of enterprises, priority should be given not only to reducing red tape and improving the overall business environment, but also to creating an environment favourable to private initiative and to the integration and retention of small, medium-sized and micro-enterprises in the formal economy.
however, barriers to competition, discrimination and a lack of a liberalised, dynamic and business-friendly environment remain in this sector.
parliament stressed that the european union's rural development policy is essential to promote agricultural competitiveness and ensure the sustainable management of natural resources, as well as the continuity of climate policy.
the budget implementation improved compared to 2013. the court also focused more on the training of staff, managed to reduce the cost of translation and invested in the development of a paperless environment.
‒ i voted in favour of approving the 2014 budget implementation report for the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators.
‒ i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament notes that in april 2014 the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) adopted its revised policy on recruitment procedures and selection of work in groups.
notes that the agency has specific conditions for interviews and written tests, as well as strict conditions for ensuring the anonymity of candidates, in order to ensure transparency and equal treatment of its staff; the parliament notes that the review of the state of implementation of the internal control standards of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators did not reveal any apparent weaknesses in 2014. it also called on the agency to further strengthen its internal controls and to ensure that the internal controls put in place are effective and contribute to the achievement of its objectives.
‒ i voted in favour of this report, which clears the implementation of the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2014. the agency's budget for the financial year 2014 was eur 10 880 000, representing a decrease of 8,80% compared to 2013. the rate of utilisation of payment appropriations in 2014 was 69,84%, i.e.
parliament stresses that, in view of the rapid growth of the aviation sector, the european aviation safety agency should be provided with the necessary financial, material and human resources to successfully carry out its regulatory and executive tasks in the field of safety and environmental protection, while maintaining its independence and impartiality.
‒ 15. i voted in favour of the discharge for the european environment agency for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors stated in its report that it had received reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the transactions covered by them were legal and regular.
‒ i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament welcomes the fact that the court of auditors has declared that the operations reported in the annual accounts of the european environment agency (hereinafter 'the agency') for the financial year 2014 were legal and regular in all material respects.
notes that the commission has not yet published a report on the implementation of the new rules on the control of emissions from ships and aircraft; it asks the responsible body of the european environment agency to draw up and adopt an anti-fraud strategy as soon as possible.
in addition, parliament recommends that the executive director of the european environment agency be given discharge for the agency's budget for the financial year 2014, on the basis of the data available.
‒ i voted in favour of this report, which clears the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2014. the budget for the financial year 2014 was eur 52 573 071, representing an increase of 6,70% compared to the 2013 budget.
the agency makes a major contribution to maritime safety, the prevention of pollution from ships in europe and the assistance provided to member states and the commission in accordance with international and union law.
the court notes that the agency has taken into account the recommendations and adopted internal policy measures to improve the cost-effectiveness and environmental performance of its premises.
it is good that the report clearly identifies this situation as a waste of european union taxpayers' money.
‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the 2014 budget for the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy.
‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it postpones the adoption of parliament's decision to confirm to the director of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy that the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014 has been implemented.
‒ i voted in favour of this report, which confirms the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2014. i think the main point of this report is related to the delay in the construction of the project, which will lead to an increase in its cost.
the eib's main task is to provide financial support for projects of benefit to the union which contribute to the sustainable development of the internal market and to social, economic and territorial cohesion.
in assessing projects, the eib gives clear priority to the long-term impact of investments, not only in terms of their financial performance, but above all in terms of their contribution to sustainable development and a better quality of life and to further improvements in the areas of employment, social standards and the environment.
in addition, greater attention should be paid to economic and social cohesion in the eu and climate policy, and more projects should be developed in these areas.
in order to strengthen environmental sustainability and climate policy, it is necessary to continue to actively apply new innovative climate policy instruments and to develop a market for green bonds.
more importantly, the report includes a very important call for a gradual increase in the share of future investment in renewable energy capacity development and energy efficiency in the new member states, until it reaches 30% of total investment in these areas by 2020.
in writing.
an innovative and competitive ict environment should be created, investment encouraged and funding opportunities increased.
– the energy union’s aim is providing mutual benefits: to secure energy for consumers at affordable prices, create competitive market opportunities for suppliers and strengthen eu members’ solidarity.
one of the union’s key goals was achieving greater energy diversification by finding alternative sources.
developing alternative energy sources infrastructure, boosting eu energy production and building new pipelines and interconnections compose an investment plan towards a common and secure energy future.
energy security is a key pillar of the eu’s energy union strategy and i believe nord stream 2 would eliminate any prospect of achieving a competitive and resilient internal eu gas market, free from political manipulation.
there have been dozens of studies on europe's need to diversify its energy suppliers for its own security.
the implementation of the third energy package has fundamentally changed the situation in lithuania.
the european commission has taken the right steps towards the energy union.
the damage caused by nord stream 2 is therefore not only in terms of geopolitical or energy security, but also in terms of economic viability.
‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal for a sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of liberia and its implementation protocol.
its objective is to achieve sustainable management of fisheries resources and ecosystems.
since 2014, following the reform of the common fisheries policy, these agreements have been referred to as sustainable fisheries partnership agreements.
this sustainable fisheries partnership agreement is the first to be concluded between the european union and the republic of liberia, which has 570 km of atlantic coastline.
the conclusion of a sustainable fisheries partnership agreement with liberia would therefore help the eu to achieve its objectives in combating iuu fishing and to promote the common fisheries policy objective of sustainable management of fisheries and aquaculture activities.
‒ the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement with liberia and its implementation protocol are in line with the objectives of the common fisheries policy (cfp) on sustainable management of fisheries and aquaculture activities and are of great benefit to both the eu member states and liberia.
‒ i am in favour of the conclusion of the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement and the protocol on its implementation between the european union and the republic of liberia.
this agreement will renew the framework for a strategic fisheries partnership between the european union and the republic of liberia, promoting a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources.
the eu has a major responsibility for ensuring the conservation and sustainable management of international fisheries resources.
it is necessary to further develop sustainable and responsible fishing and to increase the value of fishery products, taking into account the interests of both parties.
‒ a sustainable fisheries agreement is being concluded with our key partner liberia.
it is the most important document currently signed by the european union with third countries, ensuring the sustainable exploitation of fish and living aquatic resources, the proper protection of the marine environment, the smooth operation of the eu member states' navies and the adequate supply of quality food to consumers.
a partnership framework will also be established to develop a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible use of fisheries resources, taking into account the interests of both parties.
itis can be used to achieve the sustainable urban development goal, but they can also be used for other areas.
itis can be used to achieve the sustainable urban development goal, but they can also be used for other areas.
ensuring a more general spirit of governance reform will help to ensure that eu funds are not delivered in a ‘parallel’ framework to national and regional policies, but rather are embedded in a broader drive to produce sustainable economic outcomes.
tax and other incentives should be considered in order to improve employment opportunities and sustainable and inclusive growth, and to promote poverty reduction and social inclusion.
at the same time, i would like to emphasise that a stable legal environment is a key condition for sustainable growth.
additional support is necessary to address the challenges of climate change, to provide full-time employment opportunities rather than seasonal ones, to develop the economy and to prevent and manage natural disasters.
the abundant natural resources and assets of mountain regions can provide jobs for employment in the european union, in particular green jobs to help combat climate change.
the high diversity and abundance of renewable energy sources can help to achieve the eu's renewable energy targets.
the development of many mountain resources can also improve social, economic and territorial cohesion to ensure sustainable economic development in mountain areas.
as ecologically sustainable growth centres themselves, mountains can be a driving force for sustainable economic growth in the eu.
an eu framework for development strategies in mountain areas would make it possible to take into account the specific challenges and importance of mountain farming, the high levels of biodiversity and the specific exposure of mountain areas to climate change.
cohesion policy could use such a framework to better address the demographic challenges of many mountain areas and to promote their economic and social development more efficiently with an enhanced sustainable development perspective.
i believe that creating green jobs in these regions would help to combat climate change and contribute to reducing poverty and social exclusion.
in order to promote the use of renewable energy sources and to reduce the digital divide, and to increase the employment of young people and women, incentives and other support measures of various kinds should be provided.
this will contribute to sustainable economic growth across the eu.
i believe that mountain farming plays an important role in mitigating climate change, as pastures and forests absorb carbon dioxide.
recalls that farming, sustainable land management and sustainable forestry in mountain areas are essential to conserve biodiversity and avoid environmental and landscape impacts, including impacts on wildlife habitats, which cause significant damage to livestock farms by predators; i would like to remind you of the importance of water resources in mountain areas and of the risks of natural hazards.
the commission notes that the exemption for the production of electricity from renewable sources is not limited to the production of electricity from renewable sources, but also to the production of electricity from renewable sources.
i support the motion to extend the derogation to protect commodity traders in the short term from an unstable regulatory environment.
cohesion policy investments should be coordinated and coordinated with other eu policies, such as the digital single market, the energy union, social policy, macro-regional strategies, the urban agenda, research and innovation, and transport policy, in order to contribute more effectively to the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives.
nowadays, in a period of overcoming the consequences of the financial, economic and migratory crisis, the eu cohesion policy can help deliver more jobs, economic growth and energy efficiency.
this is the increase in efficiency in the lagging regions, ensuring balanced and sustainable development and citizens living throughout the country in addition, in order to reduce the gaps and disparities between regions more effectively, it is essential to assess the use of the esi funds over the period 2014-2020 and to align the esi and the esi funds.
the commission must take into account the concerns expressed by eu industry, trade unions and other stakeholders about the consequences for eu jobs, the environment, standards and sustainable economic growth in all affected manufacturing sectors and for eu industry as a whole, and ensure that eu jobs are protected in this context.
the european parliament therefore calls on the commission to take due account of the concerns expressed by eu industry, trade unions and various stakeholders about the consequences for eu jobs and sustainable economic growth in all affected manufacturing sectors and for eu industry as a whole, and to ensure the eu's global competitiveness.
the ep also draws attention in its resolution to the concerns expressed by eu industry, trade unions and other stakeholders about the impact of china's economic policies on eu jobs, the environment, standards and sustainable economic growth.
‒ i voted in favour of this proposal on the follow-up to the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals and the situation at hand.
the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals are a revised international commitment to eradicate poverty, redefine and update development strategies for the next 15 years and ensure that they are implemented.
i support calls on the commission to come forward with a proposal for a comprehensive sustainable development strategy covering all internal and external policy areas.
the eu sustainable development strategy and related implementation policies should be widely consulted by all stakeholders, including national parliaments, local authorities and civil society.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because a new global framework for sustainable development requires greater coherence between the different policies and eu actors.
this requires further coordination, dialogue and cooperation between the eu institutions and their interactions at all levels, so that the three pillars of sustainable development (environment, economy and society) are integrated into the eu's internal and external policies.
the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals are a revised international commitment to eradicate poverty, to redefine and update our development strategies for the next 15 years and to ensure that we deliver on them.
the european parliament calls on the commission to present a proposal for a comprehensive sustainable development strategy covering all internal and external policy areas, with a detailed timetable until 2030, a mid-term review and a specific procedure to ensure full involvement of parliament, including a specific implementation plan.
it is important that the commission should include more policy areas (as for now only the environment, economic and social areas are included), so it would truly reach the sustainable development goals.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that fundamental changes and a complete overhaul of eu development policy are needed to achieve the sustainable development goals.
it covers all three dimensions of sustainable development: environmental, social and economic.
i believe that the commission should develop a sustainable development strategy covering all internal and external policy areas and providing for a comprehensive 2030 agenda and a timetable for its review.
in addition, all stakeholders should be widely consulted on the eu sustainable development strategy and related implementation policies.
in order to contribute to poverty eradication and sustainable development by 2030, it is essential to provide for appropriate and targeted aid programming and development cooperation, with due respect for the principles of aid effectiveness.
i am convinced that the establishment of sufficiently generous minimum standards at european union level, such as a sufficient duration of at least six months, a minimum duration of paid maternity leave with the possibility of extending it to examples of good practice such as lithuania, where young mothers or fathers can take up to two or even three years of maternity leave; as well as the possibility of paternity leave, the right to other state aid would make a significant contribution to the creation of a more sustainable and more life-friendly europe.
first of all, i would like to stress that the energy union should provide citizens with stable, affordable, sustainable, efficient and sustainable energy, as well as high-quality energy-efficient products, services and buildings.
the energy transition should aim at a more efficient, transparent, sustainable, competitive, stable, decentralised and inclusive energy system that benefits society as a whole, ensures greater participation of citizens, local and regional entities and communities and empowers them to produce, distribute and store energy from renewable sources themselves or to share responsibility for energy production, while protecting the most vulnerable and ensuring access to energy efficiency measures and energy from renewable sources.
we therefore call on the commission to analyse the issue of aggressive tax planning and tax evasion, in particular by natural monopolies such as distribution network operators, in the energy market.
we also call for better coordination at eu level to tackle energy poverty, sharing best practice across member states and developing a broad, common, but non-quantitative definition of energy poverty, which underlines the idea that access to affordable energy is a fundamental social right.
mr president, energy is one of the most important issues in the european union.
eu policy in this sector should move towards the introduction of regulation aimed at reducing energy prices, primarily for households rather than industry.
it is the ordinary people and families who feel the most about the energy costs in their budgets.
a truly competitive, transparent and convenient system for retail consumers is needed in the energy market.
in addition, in order to effectively tackle energy shortages, member states must fully implement the provisions relating to switching suppliers.
let us remember that in a well-functioning energy system, the key role is played by local authorities, cooperatives and individuals, who should be encouraged to become energy producers if they so wish.
this is a future project which we as the eu should support, because it can really help stabilise energy prices.
the purpose of the support is to retrain workers in accordance with their needs and those of the business environment.
‒ the i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament examines a package of measures to provide new opportunities for energy consumers.
although some progress has been made, the objective of the third energy package to create a truly competitive, transparent and consumer-friendly retail energy market has not yet been fully achieved in all eu member states, as shown by the still high levels of market concentration, the lack of reflection of the decline in wholesale prices in retail prices in some member states, the sluggish switching of consumers and low satisfaction.
the european parliament therefore considers that the commission should establish or develop additional indicators for well-functioning and consumer-friendly energy markets.
parliament considers that open, transparent and competitive markets with proper regulation are important in order to reduce prices, stimulate innovation, improve customer service and remove barriers to innovative new business models that can offer great value to citizens, providing them with opportunities and helping to avoid energy poverty.
the main goal is to make energy consumers just as well informed and empowered as buyers and sellers operating on wholesale energy markets.
this can be achieved through clearer billing and advertising rules, trustworthy price comparison tools and by leveraging schemes such as collective switching and energy cooperatives.
‒ i believe that liberalisation of the energy sector and real competition between service providers in this area will not only ensure greater consumer choice but also lower energy prices.
the eu must do more to tackle energy shortages and protect vulnerable consumers.
better coordination at eu level is needed to tackle energy poverty.
it is also essential to establish a common definition of energy poverty.
in order to better assess the situation of energy poverty in europe, it is necessary to harmonise existing statistics.
it should be noted that access to affordable energy is a social right and that vulnerable citizens with low incomes should be subject to social tariffs.
they must also have access to innovative technologies that optimise energy consumption.
the increase should be allocated to energy efficiency improvements in the building sector.
in recent years, we have seen competition enter the energy sector, which was previously dominated by public or private monopolies.
the commission's recent proposals for a better choice of energy service providers for consumers are a significant step towards ensuring real competition in the energy sector.
at the same time, i would like to emphasise that the legal regulation of freedom of choice should have at least two positive side effects: on the one hand, the need to calculate such difficult to calculate indicators as the origin of energy will give an additional impetus to the development of information technology.
on the other hand, the choice should encourage more conscious consumers to opt for green energy, which in turn should further accelerate the development of renewable and green energy.
i welcome the commission's intention to include energy-specific legislation in the annex to the regulation on consumer protection cooperation.
we support the overall objectives set out by the commission in its strategy for a single market in goods and services 'making the single market better: more opportunities for citizens and businesses' and actions to unlock the potential of the single market for the benefit of consumers, workers and businesses, especially start-ups, to increase sustainable jobs and to stimulate the activity of small and medium-sized enterprises.
it should be stressed that the mid-term review of the europe 2020 strategy, which is about to begin, should also include new objectives, in particular the achievement of a competitive social market economy by 2020, while ensuring sustainable economic growth.
‒ mr president, i supported the report by mr comi, member of the european parliament, because the single market was and is the foundation of eu integration and is a driving force for sustainable growth and job creation, facilitating trade across the eu.
this should be a complex of actions, firstly, to accelerate the creation of sustainable jobs and to improve the material situation of european citizens through practical measures such as attracting investors to the european union and developing the global competitiveness of european companies.
i support the overall objectives set out in the commission's strategy for a single market in goods and services improving the single market: more opportunities for citizens and businesses and welcome its actions in the key areas to unlock the full potential of the single market for the benefit of consumers, workers and businesses, especially start-ups, to increase sustainable jobs and to foster and develop smes.
the european union takes into account sustainable development in its trade agreements.
second, chapters on sustainable development are part of the agreements.
i agree that ensuring effective coordination in our daily work and placing policy coherence for development within the 2030 agenda for sustainable development are key.
in key thematic areas, such as trade, immigration or climate action, we simply cannot afford to do business as usual.
nuclear safety remains a key priority for the commission as confirmed by the energy union framework strategy.
legally speaking, the european union cannot oblige any member state, nor third countries, which choose nuclear energy, to undertake such stress tests.
it's a decision to maintain energy influence in the region.
i am even more disappointed by the commission's lax approach to the huge problem of the astravyansk power plant being built in violation of international environmental and nuclear safety standards.
belarus does not answer questions about the impact on the main rivers of lithuania, about the resistance in case of a plane crash, does not develop emergency preparedness plans, does not take care of the management of nuclear fuel waste, ignores seismological studies, and so on.
belarus has not yet implemented its international commitments in the fields of environmental protection and nuclear safety in the development of the astaravo project.
the issue of nuclear safety and environmental protection at the astarava nuclear power plant should be of concern not only to lithuania but also to europe as a whole.
the eu must pay greater attention to the construction of nuclear power plants by third countries, and the active dissemination of environmental and nuclear safety standards must become an essential part of the eu's external energy policy.
the same conditions should be imposed by the commission for the resumption of the eu-belarus energy dialogue.
international regulatory cooperation can foster the development of a transparent, efficient, competitive economic environment, while improving and ensuring the highest level of health and safety protection.
international regulatory cooperation can foster the development of a transparent, efficient, competitive economic environment, while improving and ensuring the highest level of health and safety protection.
the development of a transparent, efficient and competitive economic environment must also be encouraged.
parliament therefore calls for an eu-wide debate on policy coherence for development in the context of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development and its 17 new global and indivisible sustainable development goals, in order to better understand how this concept can be reconciled with a more comprehensive approach to policy coherence for sustainable development.
the report is produced by the commission every two years and covers the different policy areas - trade, migration, health, climate change - and their impact on the development of third countries.
i voted in favour of this resolution because the eu and member states have a key role to play in investing in a model of agriculture that is sustainable, equal, and unlocks the potential of regional markets to benefit family farmers in africa.
the objective of peace support operations is to contribute to the creation of a stable, secure and more prosperous environment in the longer term; whereas good governance, justice, greater respect for the rule of law, protection of civilians, respect for human rights and security are essential prerequisites for this, and successful reconciliation, reconstruction and economic development programmes will help to ensure sustainable peace and prosperity.
‒ the food demand is expected to increase by 70 percent by 2050. the declining availability of land, environmental damage and degradation, water scarcity, increased energy demand and new pests and diseases are putting great pressure on our natural environment.
this makes it increasingly difficult for farmers to produce food in a sustainable way.
‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it is a report which parliament is putting forward on the technological solutions needed for sustainable eu agriculture.
food demand is expected to increase by 70 percent by 2050. the declining availability of land, environmental damage and degradation, water scarcity, increased energy demand and new pests and diseases are putting great pressure on our natural environment.
this makes it increasingly difficult for farmers to produce food in a sustainable way.
agricultural technologies can make a particularly important contribution to making farming more efficient and sustainable.
the eu should become a world leader in agricultural technology, innovation and sustainability, according to parliament.
food demand is expected to increase by 70 percent by 2050. the declining availability of land, environmental damage and degradation, water scarcity, increased energy demand and new pests and diseases are putting great pressure on our natural environment.
this makes it increasingly difficult for farmers to produce food in a sustainable way.
agricultural technologies can make a particularly important contribution to making farming more efficient and sustainable.
the eu should become a world leader in agricultural technology, innovation and sustainability, according to parliament.
genetically modified food, because this is a threat to the ecosystem and biodiversity.
at the same time, it is necessary to reduce the ecological footprint of agricultural production and to mitigate its impact on the environment and arable land.
this means that we need to reduce the ecological footprint of agricultural production to mitigate the impact on the environment and the arable land.
this means that we need to reduce the ecological footprint of agricultural production to mitigate the impact on the environment and the arable land.
the rapporteur stresses that the present interim report should not be seen as an impediment to the establishment of a uniform liability regime, but as an effort to ensure that this is done in the most effective and fair fashion, without impairing the uniformity, integrity and effectiveness of common rules of eu law and without creating excessive disparity for the victims of pollution (e.g.
‒ while the 2010 hns convention solves an important task of ensuring accountability and adequate, prompt and effective compensation for loss or damage to persons, property and the environment resulting from the transport of dangerous and harmful substances by sea through a specialised international hns compensation fund in accordance with the principle of polluter pays, it may nevertheless be contrary to the provisions of the environmental liability directive which provide that this directive does not apply to environmental damage or to the imminent threat of such damage caused by an event for which liability or compensation is governed by the international conventions listed in annex iv, as well as their future amendments, in force in that member state.
this preliminary report of parliament should not be seen as an obstacle to the establishment of a uniform regime of liability, but as an effort to ensure that this is done in the most effective and fair way, without compromising the uniformity, integrity and effectiveness of the common rules of eu law and without creating excessive disparities for the victims of pollution (e.g.
parliament wants to open a dialogue with the council and the commission to define a coherent eu policy on liability and compensation for environmental damage caused by the transport of dangerous and harmful substances by sea.
in view of the significant share hns cargo represents in maritime freight transport, the global nature of the shipping business, as well as the cross-boundary impact accidents involving hns cargo are likely to have, it is in the interest of the union as a whole to have a homogenous liability regime applicable to environmental damage arising from the carriage of hns at sea.
‒ while the 2010 hns convention solves an important task of ensuring accountability and adequate, prompt and effective compensation for loss or damage to persons, property and the environment resulting from the transport of dangerous and harmful substances by sea through a specialised international hns compensation fund in accordance with the principle of polluter pays, it may nevertheless conflict with the provisions of the environmental liability directive which provide that this directive does not apply to environmental damage or to the imminent threat of such damage caused by an event the liability or compensation for which is governed by the international conventions listed in annex iv, as well as their future amendments, in force in that member state.
i agree that the eu should continue to provide financial support and capacity-building assistance to the philippines in order to reduce poverty, increase social inclusion, strengthen respect for human rights and the rule of law, promote peace, reconciliation, security and judicial reform, and assist the country in disaster preparedness, relief and recovery, as well as to help implement effective climate change policies.
i believe that the eu's macro-financial assistance programme will help support the reforms being undertaken in tunisia to improve the budgetary situation, balance of payments and create a more favourable environment for investment.
internal security, transport, space, energy, research) and that interaction with space should be further enhanced and exploited.
therefore, the european parliament calls on president nicolas maduro and his government to implement urgent economic reforms in cooperation with the national assembly in order to find a constructive solution to the economic and energy crises, in particular the shortage of food and medicines.
for these reasons, parliament considers that the draft commission implementing decision does not meet the objective of health and environmental protection set out in directive 2001/18/ec and therefore exceeds the implementing powers set out in this directive and asks the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision.
and we have no information about the long-term effects of these gnaws on the environment and on living organisms.
therefore, in order to boost competiveness, it is highly important to encourage member states to replace old equipment with modern and sustainable products on a larger scale and to focus on digitalisation in order to increase the performance of rail and to lower its operational costs.
today, in the context of the progress report on renewable energy, i should stress that there is a lack of investment in renewable energy.
we will not make any progress in the use of renewable energy if the european energy strategy is not put into action, not in words, and if there is no single energy policy and no single voice on it.
when we talk about renewable energy in the morning and in the afternoon we applaud and shake the heads of the fossil fuel lobbyists who have come to support one project after another?
the cost of energy from renewable sources to the final consumer must not be significantly higher, but lower, by subsidising part of that price.
the european union is right to take the view that energy efficiency and renewable energy must go hand in hand, as in today's world they are not possible without each other.
the eu has demonstrated this understanding both at global level by actively supporting the ambitious paris agreement on climate change and in its own legislation by reinforcing its commitment to reduce consumption and make it more environmentally friendly.
however, the situation is more complicated in practice, as the energy efficiency directive, which aims to achieve the 20% efficiency barrier by 2020, is still not fully implemented in many member states and is unlikely to achieve its objective.
we must take account of the present situation, because the pursuit of energy efficiency cannot become an end in itself we must maintain the eu's competitiveness on the global market.
the development of renewable energy sources is necessary and it is important that the eu sets ambitious targets.
i am pleased that the progress report on this issue included important proposals from the eea group, in particular on the diversification of energy resources and the competence of states to choose the most appropriate energy mix for their use.
in implementing this plan, member states should pay particular attention to non-industrial fishing activities and non-industrial sustainable gear types such as traditional traps (e.g.
almadraba, tonnare), which have a very positive contribution to the recovery of tuna stocks due to their high selectivity and low environmental impact in marine ecosystems, and also have scientific value.
given the significant impact of biological interactions and environmental conditions on the resources in the baltic sea, it is desirable that the scale and patterns of exploitation of these resources be adapted to reflect the revised scientific data on such interactions and changes in environmental conditions.
in addition, such a method would be in line with the principle of ecosystem-based fisheries management.
multiannual plans for fisheries management are an essential tool to ensure the sustainable exploitation of fish stocks and marine ecosystems.
the plan will ensure that fishing in the baltic sea is sustainable and more predictable, and that the balance between the use of resources and the stability of fishing opportunities is maintained.
the additional sustainable fisheries buffers provided for will help to respond appropriately to the changing situation of the stocks.
it is sensitive not only to us, the representatives of the baltic sea countries, but also to the entire baltic ecosystem.
the objective of this plan should be to restore, achieve and maintain populations of the species concerned above levels which can ensure sustainable fishing of the stocks concerned, while minimising the impact on other species.
‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it supports the need for a new approach to the development of renewable energy, making it a key pillar of the european energy model.
if we are to develop our production model and create quality jobs, and if we are to foster the development of strategic technologies to underpin the new energy transition, we must reduce our dependence on the world's remaining energy resources.
the transition to a sustainable energy production model is a social priority that cannot be solved by market measures alone.
it is necessary to recognise that democratic regulation and participation are essential to avoid serious external social and environmental impacts.
energy oligopolies cannot be allowed to determine the future of europe's energy.
regulation at eu level must address the many problems that hamper its development, promote public investment, democratic control and a stable investment system that facilitates collective and democratic energy governance, with a view to achieving a fully independent, efficient and clean energy model by 2050.
in writing.
the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, thereby realising the 2015 paris agreement, depends on achieving eu climate and energy policy goals in the field of renewable energy.
the report also highlights the fact that the current 2020 energy strategy and energy goals will be insufficient to reach the 2050 decarbonisation target, and it therefore calls on the commission to present a more ambitious climate and energy package for 2030, increasing the eu target for renewable energy sources to at least 30%, to be implemented by means of individual national targets.
‒ i support this report because the development of renewable energy requires a new approach to make it a key pillar of the european energy model.
the fight against climate change is undoubtedly one of the priorities for each of us - it is a historic duty we have to fulfil.
it is necessary to create an enabling environment for the development of the renewable energy sector, which would encourage growth in a diverse and diversified sector, public investment, democratic control and a stable investment system that would facilitate collective and democratic energy governance.
the huge job creation potential of the renewable energy sector also needs to be exploited.
i believe that the commission should present a more ambitious 2030 climate change and energy package, with a renewable energy target of at least 30%.
in addition, member states should implement energy efficiency policy measures more effectively and provide targeted social guarantees targeted at vulnerable consumers.
‒ the the use of renewable energy sources is one of the eu's key indicators of progress towards a sustainable and future-oriented economy.
the report presented by the commission welcomes the progress made by member states, or at least most of them, in switching from fossil fuels to local or renewable energy.
at the same time, i think the commission could have emphasised in the report the importance of renewable energy for regional development.
moreover, renewable energy creates jobs and in many cases stimulates innovation.
first, reduce the bureaucratic obstacles to the development of renewable energy.
this is particularly relevant for member states where the dominant large energy companies are not very enthusiastic about the possibility of incorporating green energy into the overall energy mix.
second message many member states have already reached their renewable energy targets for 2020. and it wasn't hard to do, and in many cases, it paid off.
so it's time to move to a more ambitious target, to a requirement to produce at least half of our energy from renewable sources.
i welcome the commission's commitment to renewable energy; in the light of the renewable energy directive, i believe that the current combination of mandatory national targets, national renewable energy plans and biennial controls has been a key driver in promoting renewable energy capacity in the eu.
‒ the energy efficiency directive establishes a set of binding measures to help the eu reach its 20% energy efficiency target by 2020. greenhouse gas emissions in the eu fell by 23% between 1990 and 2014. the eu is making large strides towards meeting the targets set and this is largely in thanks to the ets system.
the complex reporting obligations and special national levies are a cause for concern and are largely impacted by separate national approaches to energy policy.
a more coherent climate and energy policy is needed as well as an eu-wide electricity market design.
the energy efficiency directive plays a major role in this and the eu will reach its 20% efficiency target for 2020 at this rate.
this report provides a necessary starting point to bring the energy saving aspects together and make a more coherent european wide policy.
‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it is the report by parliament on the implementation of the energy efficiency directive.
parliament stressed that the european union was on the right track to meet the 2020 targets of reducing co2 emissions, increasing the share of renewable energy in total energy consumption and improving energy efficiency.
it not only provides incentives to reduce emissions, but also encourages investment in energy-efficient technologies.
however, the reporting bureaucracy in the energy sector and the high costs for average industrial consumers and households are a concern.
the price reduction effect of energy savings is offset by special government deductions and costly reporting.
the commission called for additional efforts towards a coherent climate and energy policy and a europe-wide electricity market design.
the implementation of the energy efficiency directive plays a major role here.
if businesses and citizens recognise that energy efficiency and energy saving are in their own interest, there is no need for european union regulation.
as you know, reducing energy consumption and eliminating energy losses are key eu objectives.
efficient energy use is the basis of the transition to a resource-efficient economy.
it should be stressed that energy resources, used rationally and economically, are of crucial importance in reducing the eu's dependence on energy imports, creating jobs, reducing energy poverty, ensuring comfort and health, boosting the economy and combating global warming.
i think the commission should consider setting a mandatory target of 40% energy efficiency by 2030. it should be noted that the implementation of the energy efficiency directive is unsatisfactory, but provides a basis for energy saving, which not only helps to reduce costs but also contributes to the conservation of the planet's resources.
‒ the energy efficiency remains another key challenge for europe's energy sector, alongside the transition to renewable energy sources.
it is good that the commission is taking this issue seriously, that it exists as a horizontal priority in many of the structural programmes and that the indicators set out in the energy efficiency directive are being progressively implemented.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the energy union strategy and its implementation in the member states.
indeed, more efficient energy use, lower energy costs, especially for a country that is still largely dependent on fossil fuels and imported fuels, can have a huge spillover effect on the development of the whole economy.
i also invite the commission to focus more on the promotion of energy efficiency and in the areas of the european union's external policy, particularly in relations with our eastern neighbours, where these issues are largely neglected.
notes that the commission is developing guidelines for the implementation of articles 9 to 11 of the energy efficiency directive in order to help consumers better control their energy consumption; considers that technical feasibility and the installation of smart meters with regard to cost efficiency and cost transparency are essential prerequisites for energy savings;
in writing.
mr president, the commission recognises the link between trade, human rights and social and environmental standards.
trade and foreign investments are indeed important tools in achieving economic growth, sustainable development and protection of human rights, which we expect from the commission and the council with regard to the implementation of the new trade strategy.
in particular, the wto should reform its trade policy review mechanisms in order to include social, environmental and human rights dimensions.
clearly our trade policy should be a way to encourage eu partner countries to adopt higher social and environmental standards.
on the other hand, eu companies abroad should comply with all their obligations, particularly with international standards in the areas of human rights, labour and the environment.
these engines are increasing air pollution.
this proposal aims to protect human health and the environment and to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market for engines installed in non-road mobile machinery.
in line with eu air quality policy, the aim is to gradually reduce emissions from new engines placed on the market, while replacing older, more polluting engines over time.
the main objective of this report, as proposed by the commission, is to ensure the right balance between health and environmental issues and the competitiveness of the eu's manufacturing industry, jobs and practical experience.
the health and safety of our citizens, especially those who work with the machinery covered by this proposal on a daily basis and are particularly affected by emissions, are the key issues of this proposal.
another important objective could be to ensure certainty of long-term planning and a stable regulatory environment for industry.
the regulation is very ambitious in terms of environmental protection and public health protection because non-road mobile machinery engines account for about 15% of all nox and 5% of particulate emissions in the eu.
in order to achieve sustainable reductions in engine emissions, direct cooperation between manufacturers and related companies and reliable research institutions needs to be continuously strengthened.
it should be noted that these engines contribute significantly to air pollution and are responsible for approximately 15% of nitrogen oxide and 5% of particulate matter emissions in the european union.
however, this report is a step forward in the fight against air pollution.
i am glad that this report shows that air pollution is being looked at in a broader way.
efforts are currently being made to reduce pollution in all sectors, including the non-road internal combustion engines.
i emphasise the positive impact that refugee mobility should have in addressing labour demand and shortages, as well as the integration of refugees into the labour market, including aspects such as encouraging member states to allow family reunification; stress that further efforts are needed, including the development of social inclusion and active integration policies, to achieve a truly uniform common european asylum system and a comprehensive and sustainable legal migration policy in the european union, which responds to the demand for skills in the labour market.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate responsibilities.
the report welcomes the commission decision to carry out ex ante and ex post sustainability impact assessments (sias) and declares that the human rights impact assessments (hrias) and the sustainability impact assessment should become binding.
the commission and the council should promote regular in-depth monitoring of the implementation of the human rights clauses in trade and association agreements, which are also to include chapters on trade and sustainable development.
the eu should also actively engage with the un on an international treaty to hold transnational companies accountable for human rights abuses and the violation of the environmental standards.
‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which supports the 2010 parliament recommendations on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate social responsibility.
the eu has the potential to contribute constructively to the promotion of human rights and sustainable development worldwide through its trade policy.
i support calls on the commission to ensure coordination of development aid and trade policy and to ensure that all stakeholders respect international standards in the areas of human rights, gender equality, labour law and the environment.
‒ the i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament endorses the implementation of the 2010 parliament recommendations on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate social responsibility.
it advises member states to make greater efforts to fulfil their commitment to end fossil fuel subsidies and suggests that trade policy could make a greater contribution to the transition to a different energy consumption model.
the report sends a strong message that the european parliament calls for legally binding human rights and social and environmental standards in the eu’s international trade agreements
in writing.
it is essential to ensure that international standards in the areas of human rights, gender equality, labour law and the environment are properly respected not only in the eu but also globally.
trade agreements and trade preference programmes are leverages for the promotion of human rights, the abolition of forced and child labour, food security and health rights, sustainable development and high standards of safety and environmental protection, as well as economic opportunities for all.
trade policy should certainly make a greater contribution to the transition to a different energy model, and eu trade measures should promote the use and development of renewable energy and the development of environmental goods and technologies in europe.
in order to achieve sustainable economic and social development, the csr agenda needs to be tailored to the specific needs of regions and countries, as this will allow the objectives to be achieved more effectively and efficiently.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because it provides an overview of the progress made by the european commission since 2010, when the european parliament adopted recommendations on the interconnection between trade policy, human rights, the environment and social responsibility.
so far, while it has been possible to do so, trade has not been fully exploited as a means of achieving the european union's objectives in the areas of environmental protection, human resources, and the implementation of the principle of social responsibility.
‒ i voted for the report on the implementation of parliament's recommendations on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate social responsibility, because in our time trade and human rights should reinforce each other and prevent social exclusion.
the report focuses on some essential elements such as the importance of global value chains, the trade in digital goods and services, the strengthening of sustainable development and the promotion of human rights, labour and social standards and environmental sustainability.
the commission is working hard on incorporation and mainstreaming of human and labour rights, environmental and development issues into all trade agreements.
policy makers need to ensure that economic growth is not only sustainable but responsible towards the broader population and our environment.
we need to design our trade and investment agreements so that they are effective tools for strengthening sustainable development worldwide, promoting human rights, labour and social standards and promoting environmental sustainability.
the commission must constantly update its trade strategy in the face of rapid changes in the global trading environment.
however, there are also important references - one of them is the call to the commission to create sustainable and responsible trade.
it also stresses the importance of including a sustainable development chapter in trade agreements, which would allow for the application of high social and environmental standards throughout the supply chain.
the resolution also stresses the need to step up the energy union, to meet the paris climate change targets and to create sustainable jobs.
this country is not only an important energy partner for the union; thus, rule of law, respect for human rights and democracy remain the core principles on which relations of the eu with third countries are built.
the conclusion of such a protocol will offer the opportunity to promote further cultural, educational, environmental, technical and scientific link between the eu and azerbaijan.
in the meantime, the eu-azerbaijan visa facilitation and readmission agreements entered into force on 1 september 2014. azerbaijan is, among other things, an important partner of the eu in the field of energy.
however, the eu-azerbaijan relationship is important not only in terms of energy security, the relevance of this partnership should be considered in the context of all aspects of cooperation envisaged in the eastern partnership policy.
it should be noted that azerbaijan is, among other things, an important partner of the eu in the field of energy.
however, the eu-azerbaijan relationship is important not only in terms of energy security, the relevance of this partnership should be considered in the context of all aspects of cooperation envisaged in the eastern partnership policy.
azerbaijan is, among other things, an important partner of the eu in the field of energy.
however, the eu-azerbaijan relationship is important not only in terms of energy security, the relevance of this partnership should be considered in the context of all aspects of cooperation envisaged in the eastern partnership policy.
today we have endorsed legislation that will impose security and reporting obligations on service operators in industries such as banking, energy, transport and health and on digital operators like search engines and online marketplaces.
new eu rules require companies in energy, transport, banking, healthcare or other critical sectors to strengthen the resilience of their information systems to cyberattacks.
this will be achieved by requiring member states to increase their preparedness and enhance cooperation with each other, and by requiring operators of critical infrastructure such as energy and transport, and key information society services (e.g.
the aim of the strategy is to ensure a safe and secure digital environment, while upholding and protecting fundamental rights and other core eu values.
this will be achieved by requiring the member states to increase their preparedness and improve their cooperation with each other, and by requiring operators of critical infrastructures, such as energy, transport, and key providers of information society services (e-commerce platforms, social networks, etc.
‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims at more explicit labelling of energy efficiency.
the new rules propose to abandon the misleading a+, a++ or a+++ labelling within five years and replace it with a scale from a to g. most appliances currently meet the highest energy efficiency class a and manufacturers tend to break it down into smaller categories and add advantages such as a+, a++ or a+++ in order to achieve product excellence.
this may mislead consumers who expect to buy the most economical device when buying a product in category a. i agree that the product label should be clear and legible, indicating the energy efficiency class and the kilowatt consumption of the appliance.
this would allow consumers to make an informed decision before purchasing the desired appliance and contribute to energy savings.
‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which sets out the european parliament's amendments to the energy efficiency labelling rules, with the aim of abandoning the misleading a+, a++ or a+++ labelling within five years and replacing it with the ag scale.
in its report, the parliament notes that most appliances currently meet the highest energy efficiency class a and that, in order to achieve product exclusivity, manufacturers tend to break it down into smaller categories and add bonuses such as a+, a++ or a+++.
this may mislead consumers who expect to buy the most economical device when buying a product in category a. the european parliament proposes to return to the ag energy efficiency scale within five years and to reflect this on product labels.
they should also indicate the energy consumption of the product in kilowatt hours.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the revision aims to ensure that consumers make better-informed purchase decisions of energy-efficient products, and thereby reduce energy consumption and associated energy bills (as well as other major environmental impacts of products).
the proposed regulation would restore the a-g scale for energy labelling, create a mechanism for rescaling products that can accommodate further improvements in energy efficiency, establish a product database on energy efficiency, and introduce a safeguard procedure to improve national market surveillance.
energy labelling is environmentally beneficial because it allows consumers to compare products in terms of their energy efficiency and to make cost-effective and environmentally sound choices.
it is also essential that consumers are provided with more information when choosing a product, which will help them save energy and money.
it should be noted that the eu will not be able to function properly as a single market without the common digital database of new energy-saving products that the us, australia and other countries have developed over the past few years.
this would allow citizens to play a key role in the eu's transition to a new energy system, as well as facilitate access to information, enhance the ability to monitor market developments in real time and increase the effectiveness of safeguards.
‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to finally create a uniform and clear eu energy labelling system for products.
‒ the i voted in favour of the report because the new regulation sets out the framework for energy efficiency labelling and at the same time replaces the pre-accession directive which came into force six years ago.
the dynamic development of the energy sector, and in particular the considerable technical progress in the field of energy-saving products, also requires an appropriate response from parliament and the adaptation of the provisions to the current situation.
the directive seems to be the appropriate legal instrument to achieve a clear and comprehensive harmonisation of energy standards across the eu.
this is particularly important for customers who will be able to make the best-informed purchasing decisions thanks to standardised energy efficiency labelling.
since its introduction, labelling has helped citizens to better understand the environmental impact and life cycle of products.
the evaluation of directive 2010/30/ec has shown that there are shortcomings which, if addressed, could lead to significant additional energy savings.
there are currently over 300 civil and military authorities in the member states, which carry out coast guard functions in the fields of safety of navigation, security, search and rescue, border control, fisheries control, customs control, general law enforcement and environmental protection.
national authorities that carry out coastguard functions are responsible for a large number of tasks in areas as wide-ranging as maritime safety, security, search and rescue, border controls, customs checks, environmental protection and law enforcement.
there are currently over 300 civil and military authorities in the member states, which carry out coast guard functions in the fields of safety of navigation, security, search and rescue, border control, fisheries control, customs control, general law enforcement and environmental protection.
it also seeks to draw attention to the recent international agreement on climate change and the growing pressure on development policy.
draw attention to, inter alia, the migration and refugee crisis, external emergencies, internal security challenges, the agricultural crisis, the financing of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi), the crisis of payments to the eu budget, the still high level of unemployment, especially among young people, as well as poverty and social exclusion; i also draw attention to the recent international agreement on climate change and the growing pressure on development policy.
i agree that the main priorities of the ec's work should be: improving the working and living conditions of citizens, economic recovery and long-term competitiveness of the eu, energy security, migration and refugees, threats to citizens' internal and external security, fair taxation and the implementation of economic and monetary union.
parliament also draws attention to the fight against climate change and energy security, the growing flow of refugees, fair taxation policies to ensure sufficient resources, the strengthening of the eu budget and financial instruments, the creation of economic and monetary union, the strengthening of fundamental rights and democracy, and the resolution of security issues of concern to citizens.
parliament regretted that japan had clearly ignored the ruling of the international court of justice in its decision to resume whaling and considered that the hunt violated the standards of the international whaling commission and international law and was detrimental to the protection of biodiversity and marine ecosystems.
it should be noted that the hunt violates the standards of the international whaling commission and international law, and is detrimental to the protection of biodiversity and marine ecosystems.
eu guarantees to the european investment bank (eib) and the projects it finances are available to non-eu countries that respect basic international standards, in particular in the areas of democracy, human rights and the environment.
we have to ensure that the eu remains at the forefront of the fight against climate change.
parliament makes recommendations to the council on peace and security, the fight against terrorism, non-proliferation and disarmament, migration, human rights, democracy and the rule of law, development, climate change and reform of the eu and un systems.
with violent conflicts in the eu's neighbourhood, the increasingly widespread mixed war in europe, cyber terrorism, so-called foreign fighters, unprecedented flows of migrants and the blurring of the distinction between external and internal threats, the european security environment is becoming increasingly difficult for individual states or regions to navigate.
the resolution stresses first of all the need to combat climate change and that it must remain a priority for the european union.
it also stresses the need to swiftly implement the decisions of the paris climate conference.
further develop the procedures for the implementation of the eu common security and defence policy in support of un operations, including the deployment of eu combat groups or capacity building and security sector reform initiatives, while paying due attention to issues such as human rights, sustainable development and the causes of mass migration.
the voluntary energy drinks industry code of practice for the marketing and labelling of energy drinks only provides for the non-sale of energy drinks to children under 12 years of age.
the commission should consider restricting the sale of energy drinks to children and adolescents.
the resolution states that adolescents are the largest group of energy drink consumers (68% of adolescents and 18% of children regularly consume energy drinks) and 25% of adolescents who consume energy drinks drink three or more cans at a time.
the voluntary energy drinks industry code of practice for the marketing and labelling of energy drinks provides that energy drinks are not to be sold to children under 12 years of age.
it is also emphasised that a 250 ml can of energy drink may contain up to 27 g of sugar and 80 mg of caffeine.
the draft commission regulation now in preparation, on the other hand, is incompatible with the purpose and content of regulation (ec) no 1924/2006 as it does not restrict the sale of energy drinks to children and adolescents.
parliament recalls that 68% of adolescents and 18% of children regularly consume energy drinks, and 25% of adolescents who consume energy drinks drink three or more cans at once.
and that's a lot of money, considering that a 250-ml can of energy drink can contain up to 27 grams of sugar and 80 grams of caffeine.
therefore, the consumption of energy drinks poses a health risk.
for the first time, heating and cooling are referred to as a separate energy sector, which is, incidentally, one of the largest, consuming about 50 percent of the energy produced.
the action plan presented will help to improve the energy efficiency of buildings, integrate advanced technologies and renewable energy sources.
the heating and cooling needs of member states vary according to climate, building site or heat economy.
often, industrial waste heat is not used because of bureaucracy, renewal is single rather than complex and the existing potential is not used.
the instruments and conditions must be created to enable this level to take appropriate, economically sustainable, long-term decisions.
i believe that the commission should develop a coherent and comprehensive set of urban energy planning tools to help assess local heating and cooling energy availability, optimise and integrate building renovation and develop heating and cooling infrastructure.
the creation of an eu single energy market is one of the eu's top priorities, not only in the field of energy itself, but also in general in terms of increasing the eu's competitiveness, resilience to various crises and in the implementation of the eu's 2030 climate change and energy targets.
a well-designed and properly implemented european energy market has the potential to significantly enhance europe's energy security and independence, in particular from the monopolistic external suppliers on which the union is still dependent.
the creation of a genuine energy market requires the urgent need to dismantle the remaining eu energy islands and integrate them into the european energy networks in the fields of gas and electricity.
it is therefore essential to create a family-friendly environment at the workplace and for employers to guarantee flexible working relationships and additional social guarantees for families raising children.
in this report, parliament therefore underlines that the aim of these strategies is to ensure knowledge-based sustainable growth, sustainable development and high-quality jobs in all regions, not only in developed areas but also in transition regions, as well as in less developed and rural regions and islands.
in this report, parliament therefore underlines that the aim of these strategies is to ensure knowledge-based sustainable growth, sustainable development and high-quality jobs in all regions.
the etc programmes have proved to be effective; however, their potential should be further developed in areas beyond regional policy such as the single market, the digital agenda, employment, mobility, energy, research, education, culture, health and the environment.
‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to further promote european territorial cooperation (etc) activities, which has become one of the two equivalent objectives of cohesion policy for 2014-2020. the eit is an effective tool for developing potential in areas such as the single market, the digital agenda, employment, mobility, energy, research, education, health and environmental protection, and it is therefore necessary to maintain the eit as an important tool beyond 2020 and to substantially increase its budget.
the overall objective of european territorial cooperation is to reduce the impact of national borders in order to reduce regional disparities, remove remaining barriers to investment and cooperation across borders, strengthen cohesion and promote sustainable economic, social, cultural and territorial development throughout the union.
the european parliament therefore stressed that, for the period 2014-2020, approximately 41% of the european regional development fund will be invested in measures to improve the environment, 27% in the promotion of smart growth, including research and innovation, 13% in promoting inclusive growth through employment, education and training activities, and 33 programmes will generally aim to improve connectivity between different countries.
it makes a significant contribution to boosting integrated and sustainable territorial development, including implementation and dissemination of integrated approaches, development of governance approaches, harmonisation of planning instruments, administrative procedures and legal provisions across borders.
‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it was the report by which parliament gave its opinion on emissions measurement studies in the motor vehicle sector.
‒ i voted in favour of this report, which deals with the work of the special committee of inquiry into emissions from the automotive sector.
nevertheless, the possible outcome of the committee's work is already emerging, which should reveal that there are still incompetent officials who did not want to investigate the reasons for the actual increase in emissions rather than the decrease.
he also paid close attention to the negative impact of systemic corruption on politics and the economy, in particular as regards public procurement in the field of environmental policy.
qualified as an associate member of the chartered institute of bankers london, he served for three years as minister for sustainable development, environment and climate change in malta.
in 2007, the methodology was improved to take account of liberalised energy markets.
‒ i have voted in favour of the report on a new energy market design.
the report aims to strengthen the internal market for energy and to allow electricity to move freely to where it is most needed, to reap maximum benefits from cross-border competition and provide the right signals and incentives to drive the right investments.
the electricity market should enhance regional cooperation on all dimensions of energy supply and demand, and should focus on improved, more decentralised and more flexible markets, in order to ensure a well-regulated, market-based system, which is capable of delivering on all of the eu’s established energy and climate goals for 2030. the report also considers that all member states have to implement fully the third energy package and to be more proactively involved in designing a flexible and decentralised internal market on electricity.
‒ the i voted in favour of this report on the development of a new energy market model.
in the energy sector, europe faces challenges including: increased dependence on oil and gas imports in recent years, lack of diversification, high energy prices influenced by high tariffs, overall increasing global energy demand, threats to the security of producing and transit countries, the fight against climate change, slow progress in energy efficiency, increased share of energy from renewable sources, integration and interconnection of energy markets and market distortions due to different support schemes.
i therefore support the need for better integration and coordination of the energy market, which will make it easier to achieve the common european objectives of ensuring a secure, cost-effective and environmentally friendly energy supply.
the european energy policy is to ensure the functioning of the energy market and the security of energy supply, to promote savings through more efficient use of energy, to develop renewable forms of energy and to connect energy networks.
the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states to enable them to assess the impact of the measures taken on the energy market.
however, parliament called for the regulatory framework of european markets to be adjusted to increase the share of renewable energy and close the existing cross-border regulatory gaps.
improved integration and coordination of energy markets means that there are many opportunities to achieve the common european goal of a secure, affordable, environmentally-sound energy supply.
predictable energy prices and security of supply are indispensable in particular for maintaining domestic standards of living and ensuring job security at energy-intensive companies.
i welcome the fact that the new energy union strategy is even more beneficial for energy consumers, offering them more opportunities to participate in energy markets and ensuring better consumer protection.
in the eu, almost 50% of the eu’s final energy demand is used for heating and cooling, of which 80% is used in buildings.
the share of primary energy from fossil fuels in heating and cooling remains very high at 75% and presents a major barrier to decarbonisation, thereby accelerating climate change and causing significant harm to the environment.
the heating and cooling sector should reflect the 2015 paris agreement on climate change (cop21) and be compatible with the eu’s energy and climate goal of 100% cent renewables by 2050 the latest.
in order to tackle this issue, the energy efficiency of buildings must be improved and the use of renewables (including solar energy) must be increased.
reversible heat pumps may play an important role since they are energy efficient and the re-use of waste heat and cold generated by industry should be encouraged.
the eu heating and cooling strategy is an integral part of the energy union strategy and the heating and cooling sector is therefore crucial to the achievement of the eu's energy and climate targets for 2020, 2030 and 2050, as well as to the objectives of increasing the security of energy supply.
heating and cooling accounts for almost 50% of the eu's final energy demand, 80% of which is used in buildings, and each additional percentage of energy saved would reduce gas imports by 2.6%.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of energy from renewable sources, such as solar panels, solar water heating and solar thermal systems.
the report also highlights that the share of renewable energy sources has been slow to increase, but that there is still a huge potential at all levels and that it should be exploited in the member states.
at least 25% of the european energy efficiency and renewable energy fund needs to be set aside for this purpose.
it contains some very good ideas, such as emphasising the need for energy efficiency, encouraging the renovation of buildings, calling for specific solutions to the problems of rural buildings, which are often older, less energy efficient, less healthy and less thermal comfortable.
however, it was decided to exclude important green proposals from the report, which is very vague about the development and integration of renewable energy sources into the common system.
the commission also rejected proposals for stricter regulation of waste energy conversion, more efficient energy production and decentralised energy production.
i welcome the commission's intention to draw up a package of measures to facilitate the renovation of apartment buildings; i believe that a harmonised and comprehensive set of urban energy planning tools should be developed to assess local heating and cooling options, to carry out optimised and integrated building renovation and to develop heating and cooling infrastructure.
in this report, parliament therefore calls on the commission and the member states to take account of the added value of smes' projects in terms of development and innovation in traditional sectors, since this would not only create jobs but also preserve the specific character of local and regional businesses, while respecting the principles of sustainability.
smes need a favourable business environment in which green ideas can be easily developed, financed and brought to the market.
i supported this report because it also promotes the diversification of tourism and underlines the importance of improving transport and energy connectivity, as well as underlines the importance of protecting and enhancing the biodiversity in the alpine region.
it is also worth noting that climate change in the alpine region is occurring at a faster rate than the global average, which is causing more frequent natural disasters such as avalanches and floods.
the commission launched the fourth eu macro-regional strategy with its communication concerning a european union strategy for the alpine region focused on the population of more than70 million citizens who should reap the benefits of a closer cooperation between regions and countries in terms of research and innovation, sme support, mobility, tourism, environmental protection as well as energy resources management.
i would point out that the alpine regions are an environmental heritage that must be preserved, as they have a vast reserve of natural landscapes, a particular diversity of ecosystems that extends from the mountains to the plains and even to the mediterranean coast, thus creating an economic zone and a biosphere based on the coexistence of man and nature.
africa continues to experience a very high rate of population growth and only a slight decline in the birth rate, and it is therefore essential to provide young people with the education and skills they need to fulfil their potential and create employment opportunities in order to promote stability, sustainable economic growth, social cohesion and development in the region.
the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states to enable them to assess the impact of the measures taken on the environment.
i recall that a people- and community-oriented approach is crucial and i strongly believe that the eu trust fund should focus its main focus not only on economic development but also on public projects specifically aimed at improving the quality and fairness of basic services and their universal accessibility, in particular in the education, vocational training, health and nutrition, food security and water and sanitation sectors, all of which are crucial for increasing the inclusion, empowerment and well-being of local populations, with a particular focus on youth, as well as responding to the needs of vulnerable communities, including minorities, while having the opportunity to provide better and more equitable and sustainable services to all.
it is therefore essential to create a family-friendly environment at the workplace and for employers to guarantee flexible working relationships and additional social guarantees for families raising children.
it is clear that the economic partnership agreement (epa) offers the opportunity to bring about substantial positive changes and contributes to sustainable economic growth in the southern african development community (sadc) and the eu.
i welcome the flexibility and safeguard clauses in the agreement, particularly those relating to trade and sustainable development, which can help to secure a mutually beneficial agreement.
this agreement will ensure substantial positive changes and contribute to sustainable economic growth, as well as to the development of intra-african trade and integration.
workers in the fisheries sector require special protection, considering the special characteristics of work on board of fishing vessels: the high rate of fatal and non-fatal accidents, as well as the risk and incidence of occupational diseases in a hazardous working environment and the unclear distinction between work hours, rest and leisure.
workers in the fisheries sector require special protection, considering, among other things: the special characteristics of work on board fishing vessels; the high rate of fatal and non-fatal accidents, as well as the risk and incidence of occupational diseases, in comparison with other sectors, in a hazardous working environment; also, the unclear distinction between work hours, rest and leisure, and the impact on health and safety of fatigue resulting, in part, from insufficient rest required to implement specific rules on work in the fisheries.
this agreement has not only a trade dimension, but also contributes to extending european standards in the field of environment, consumer protection and worker rights to tunisia.
we also have to deal with the problem of harassment at work, which can arise for a variety of reasons - both because of gender and because of age, because of religious beliefs, which offends against human dignity, which is degrading, and finally because it is really difficult for the employee to work in such a work environment.
as the eu is participating in cities for the first time as a party to the convention, i support the eu's accession to cities and consider this accession to be a very important step in ensuring that the eu continues to pursue the broader objectives of its environmental policy and the regulation of international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora and to promote the sustainable development policy of the un 2030 agenda.
promoting more competition in this sector is also important in reaching the europe 2020 goals for sustainable growth in a resource-efficient and more competitive economy.
the report underlines that for achieving a sound environment for business development and boosting its job creation potential, national and european policies must as a priority address the issues of skills, regulatory uncertainty and administrative burdens.
the report emphasises the importance of a stable regulatory environment, improved regulation quality and enforcement, as the right way to lower smes burdens, including labour costs.
‒ i voted in favour of the conclusion, on behalf of the eu, of the paris agreement, adopted under the united nations framework convention on climate change.
the paris agreement is a major historic achievement in the fight against climate change and in the pursuit of multilateralism.
i agree that the decision to ratify the paris agreement will underline the clear leadership of the eu and its member states and will make a significant contribution to the global fight against climate change.
‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which deals with the paris agreement on the united nations framework convention on climate change.
the paris agreement is a major historic achievement in the fight against climate change and in the pursuit of multilateralism.
the adoption of an agreement at the end of cop 21 and the announcement by 187 countries of their envisaged nationally determined commitments (ndcs) represent a crucial shift towards comprehensive and collective global action, the implementation of which will undoubtedly and irreversibly accelerate the transition to a climate resilient and climate neutral global economy.
this global action aims to steer global development in a way that avoids dangerous climate change.
the agreement recognises the need to achieve a global greenhouse gas emissions ceiling as soon as possible and to neutralise climate impacts in the second half of this century.
the agreement also provides for an ambitious set of solidarity measures, including appropriate provisions on the financing of climate action and on meeting the needs of adaptation to climate change and loss and damage caused by the adverse effects of climate change.
the 2015 paris agreement is a historically significant landmark in the global fight against climate change.
the paris agreement is a success for the world and a confirmation of the eu’s path towards a low—carbon economy.
the eu has pushed for ambition, bringing its experience of effective climate policy and tradition of negotiation and rules-based international cooperation.
‒ i support the european parliament's decision to ratify the paris agreement on climate change.
i think this will help to address the very important climate change issues at the international level.
i voted in favour of this recommendation for the conclusion, on behalf of the eu, of the paris agreement, adopted under the united nations framework convention on climate change.
it is worth noting that this agreement is a crucial global step towards strengthening global collective action and accelerating the global shift towards low-carbon technologies and climate resilient societies.
it is therefore essential that the agreement enters into force as soon as possible, as only through joint efforts can we strengthen the response to the threat of climate change and achieve the objectives set.
i think this is a historic moment in which the majority of members of the european parliament have shown that they understand that tackling climate change is necessary here and now.
this step led to the entry into force of the paris agreement on climate change.
‒ the i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament calls for the fight against poverty and inequality to be the main objective of cooperation between the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) states and the eu, and ultimately for their total eradication and the promotion of sustainable development.
cooperation should also take place in areas of common interest where mutual benefits can be expected, not only in economic terms but also in peace and security, human rights and the rule of law, good governance and democracy, migration, the environment, climate change and other areas related to the well-being of both the acp and the eu population.
‒ i have endorsed the ep report on african, caribbean and pacific (acp) -eu relations after 2020. the communication sets out provisions for new cooperation objectives and financial and economic instruments to help tackle more effectively the global challenges of our time, such as climate change, migration flows, terrorism, extremism, international crime, biodiversity, water, energy and food supply, etc.
i believe that there is a need to focus on the implementation of the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals now.
it is therefore essential to ensure that the new agreement contributes to the achievement of the sustainable development goals.
in order to ensure sustainable development and policy coherence, particular attention should also be paid to the implementation of trade policy.
it is essential to ensure that sustainability provisions are included in economic partnership agreements without reservations.
i believe that while strong political alliances based on shared interests and values should continue to be the basis of the acp partnership, further cooperation on global issues should be strengthened and appropriate mechanisms developed to address more effectively the global challenges of our day, such as climate change, water, energy and food supply, migration flows, terrorism, extremism, international crime, biodiversity, health and financial challenges.
additionally, despite the fact that this resolution stressed the need for eu trade and development policy to respect the political and economic policy space of developing countries in order for them to establish the necessary policies to promote sustainable development and dignity for their people, including food sovereignty, it failed to respect the right of local food producers to have control over their land, seeds and water, meaning that privatisation of natural resources was not excluded, due to an unsuccessful amending attempt, from the final text.
reinvestment in local food production, with a particular focus on small-scale food producers and agro-ecological practices, is a key condition for the successful implementation of nutrition strategies.
secondly, it is necessary to encourage food production where it is scarce, rather than spending millions on exporting it, thus increasing the climate change problem.
i believe that reinvestment in local food production, with a particular focus on small-scale food producers and agro-ecological practices, is a key condition for the successful implementation of nutrition strategies.
in view of these emerging problems, which are directly related to the social security of workers, i support the european parliament's call to promote the real economy through a policy of sustainable reindustrialisation, that is to say, to coordinate economic policies based on higher social standards and domestic demand as a driving force, thus promoting development, the deployment of energy efficiency, renewable energy, resource efficiency and social innovation.
the report indicates that environment, transport and internal market and services were the policy areas where most infringement procedures were initiated in 2014. the report also highlights the decrease in the number of formal infringement procedures over the past five years.
‒ i have voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the implementation of the paris agreement and the 2016 un climate change conference in marrakesh, morocco.
the 22nd session of the conference of parties to the united nations convention on climate change (cop 22) will be held in marrakesh (morocco) in november 2016. it will focus on actions in order to achieve the priorities of the paris agreement, especially related to adaptation, transparency, technology transfer, mitigation, capacity building and loss and damages.
to my mind, the motion for a resolution that i have supported is of high relevance due to its effort to welcome the paris climate agreement as a landmark achievement for combating climate change and for multilateralism.
what is more, it also aims to define the position of the european parliament in view of the cop22 climate conference in marrakesh and addresses, among other things, issues such as the urgency to ratify and implement the paris agreement, the pre-2020 ambition and the kyoto protocol, the priority negotiation points in cop22, the role of non-state actors, the comprehensive effort of all sectors, climate finance, climate resilience through adaptation, and climate diplomacy.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the fight against climate change cannot be seen as an obstacle to economic growth, but rather as a lever to help achieve and deliver new and sustainable economic and employment growth.
developing countries, in particular least developed countries and small island developing states, which lack sufficient resources to prepare for and adapt to the changes underway, will be the most affected by climate change.
according to the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc), africa is particularly vulnerable to this challenge and therefore suffers greatly from water scarcity, extreme weather conditions and food shortages due to droughts and desertification.
the european parliament therefore stresses that adaptation action is a must for all countries if they are to reduce the negative impacts of climate change and fully exploit the opportunities for climate resilient growth and sustainable development.
‒ i agree with the european parliament resolution and its provisions that all countries must take action to adapt to climate change if they are to reduce its negative impact on the environment and fully exploit the opportunities for climate resilient growth and sustainable development.
a climate policy with a strong scientific basis is needed to achieve the objectives set.
the contribution of renewable energy sources and adaptation measures to the global fight against climate change must be given high priority.
in addition, all sectors need to make greater efforts to combat climate change.
industry and competitiveness, energy policy, research, innovation and digital technologies play a key role in this area.
this resolution shows that the european parliament remains committed to an ambitious climate change mitigation plan.
i welcome the commitment of the paris agreement to reduce global carbon emissions to zero by the second half of the century, as well as the development of emissions trading systems (ets) worldwide, including 17 ets covering four continents, covering 40% of global gdp, and contributing to economically efficient global emissions reductions.
while environment, transport and the internal market and services remained the policy areas in which most infringement cases were open in 2014, the number of formal infringement procedures has decreased in the last five years.
the report indicates that environment, transport and internal market and services were the policy areas where most infringement procedures were initiated in 2014. the report also highlights the decrease in the number of formal infringement procedures over the past five years.
environment, transport and the internal market and services remain the areas where most infringement proceedings have been initiated.
the report indicates that environment, transport and internal market and services were the policy areas where most infringement procedures were initiated in 2014. it is important to stress that the european parliament still has limited access to information on the eu pilot procedure and to incomplete infringement cases , especially since a significant number of infringements remain invisible until the member state has found a compromise with the commission.
the draft commission implementing decision is not consistent with union law as it is not compatible with the objective of directive 2001/18/ec, which is to approximate the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states and to protect human health and the environment when carrying out the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms for any other purposes than placing on the market within the community and placing on the market genetically modified organisms as or in products within the community.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, in which the european parliament considers that the draft commission implementing decision is incompatible with european union law, since it is incompatible with the objective of directive 2001/18/ec of the european parliament and of the council, which aims, on the basis of the precautionary principle, to harmonise the laws and regulations of the member states and to protect human health and the environment, when gmos are deliberately released into the environment for any purpose other than placing on the market within the territory of the european community and when gmos are placed on the market in the community as separate products or in other products.
i believe that, in accordance with the precautionary principle and the desire to protect human health and the environment, decisions on the marketing of gm seeds should only be taken when there is overwhelming scientific evidence of their effects.
parliament considers that the draft commission decision is not in conformity with union law, since it is incompatible with the objective of directive 2001/18/ec of the european parliament and of the council, which aims, on the basis of the precautionary principle, to harmonise the laws and regulations of the member states and to protect human health and the environment.
the european food safety authority (efsa) considered in 2005 that maize has no cross-compatible wild relatives in europe and stated that no unintended environmental effects due to its establishment and spread are anticipated.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, in which the european parliament considers that the draft commission implementing decision is incompatible with european union law, since it is incompatible with the objective of directive 2001/18/ec of the european parliament and of the council, which aims, on the basis of the precautionary principle, to harmonise the laws and regulations of the member states and to protect human health and the environment, when gmos are deliberately released into the environment for any purpose other than placing on the market within the territory of the european community and when gmos are placed on the market in the community as separate products or in other products.
i believe that, in accordance with the precautionary principle and the desire to protect human health and the environment, decisions on the marketing of gm seeds should only be taken when there is overwhelming scientific evidence of their effects.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution in which parliament rejects the commission's decision to authorise the import of seeds of genetically modified maize 1507 by pioneer overseas corporation and dow agrosciences europe ltd. parliament considers that the draft commission decision is not in conformity with union law, since it is incompatible with the objective of directive 2001/18/ec of the european parliament and of the council, which aims, on the basis of the precautionary principle, to harmonise the laws and regulations of the member states and to protect human health and the environment.
what is more, the draft implementing decision itself is not consistent with union law, as it is not compatible with the objective of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003, which is, in accordance with the general principles laid down in regulation (ec) no 178/2002, to provide the basis for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests in relation to genetically modified food and feed, whilst ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, in which the european parliament considers that the draft commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law, as it is incompatible with the objective of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003, which is to establish, on the basis of the general principles laid down in regulation (ec) no 178/2002, a framework allowing for a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests with regard to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market.
the european food safety authority and the panel on genetically modified organisms (gmo) have repeatedly and unsuccessfully repeated their recommendations on the post-market monitoring of the environmental impact of mon 810 maize, namely to provide more detailed information on sampling methodology, to reduce the possibility of bias in the selection of questionnaires for farmers and to ensure that all relevant scientific publications are referred to.
i believe that, in accordance with the precautionary principle and the desire to protect human health and the environment, decisions on the marketing of gm seeds should only be taken when there is overwhelming scientific evidence of their effects.
‒ i voted in favour of this report, which is in opposition to the decision prepared by the european commission to renew the authorisation for the production of genetically modified maize mon 810 by monsanto europe s.a.. the european parliament considers that the draft commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law as it is incompatible with the objective of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 which is to establish, on the basis of the general principles laid down in regulation (ec) no 178/2002, a framework for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests with regard to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, in which the european parliament considers that the commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law, as it is incompatible with the objective of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003, which is to establish, on the basis of the general principles laid down in regulation (ec) no 178/2002, a legal framework allowing for a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests with regard to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market.
parliament calls on the commission to submit a new legislative proposal, on the basis of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, amending regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 to take account of the concerns often expressed by national authorities on issues beyond the health and environmental safety of genetically modified organisms (gmos).
i believe that, in accordance with the precautionary principle and the desire to protect human health and the environment, decisions on gmos should only be taken when there is overwhelming scientific evidence of their effects.
‒ i voted in favour of this report, which opposes the decision prepared by the european commission to renew the authorisation for the cultivation of genetically modified maize mon-øø81ø-6 by monsanto europe s.a.. the european parliament considers that the draft commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law as it is incompatible with the objective of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 which is to establish, on the basis of the general principles laid down in regulation (ec) no 178/2002, a framework for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests with regard to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, in which the european parliament considers that the commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law, as it is incompatible with the objective of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003, which is to establish, on the basis of the general principles laid down in regulation (ec) no 178/2002, a legal framework allowing for a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests with regard to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market.
i believe that, in accordance with the precautionary principle and the need to protect human health and the environment, decisions on the marketing of gmos should be taken only after irrefutable scientific evidence of their effects has been presented.
the european parliament considers that the commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law as it is incompatible with the objective of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 which is to establish, on the basis of the general principles laid down in regulation (ec) no 178/2002, a legal framework allowing for a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests with regard to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market.
i do not think that we should create a european security service for the institutions of the european union or even waste time debating this when there is more important work to be done.
particular attention should be paid to areas such as trade, energy, human rights, cooperation in the civil nuclear sector, migration, the environment, the fight against international threats such as drugs, humanitarian cooperation, transport, research, education, culture and regional issues.
i support the provisions calling for more effective coordination and evaluation of the implementation, impact and sustainability of the various eu financial instruments.
one of the objectives of the eu lng utilisation and gas storage strategy is to achieve the eu's ambition to move rapidly towards elements of a sustainable, secure and competitive energy system and away from dependence on external gas suppliers.
the european parliament welcomes the commission communication on an eu strategy for the use and storage of liquefied natural gas and considers that an internal energy market fully integrating the use and storage of liquefied natural gas will play an important role in achieving the ultimate goal of a resilient energy union.
the eu lng and gas storage strategy is one of the elements of the energy union, which aims to deliver on the eu's ambition to move rapidly towards a sustainable, secure and competitive energy system, and to move away from dependence on external gas suppliers.
parliament stressed that one of the objectives of the energy union is to make the eu a world leader in renewable energy.
parliament also considers that the most effective way of ensuring energy security is through better coordination of national energy policies, the creation of a genuine energy union with a common energy market and a common energy policy, and cooperation between member states in this area, in accordance with the principles of solidarity and trust.
the eu strategy for lng and gas storage is one element of the energy union, which aims to gives concrete expression to the eu’s ambition to bring about a quick transition to a sustainable, secure and competitive energy system, and also aims to end dependence on external gas suppliers.
the role of lng and gas storage, together with increased consumption efficiency and the use of renewable energy sources, is crucial in reducing dependence on russian gas.
a common and robust strategy for the use and storage of lng in the eu should be implemented to help break the energy isolation and reduce the eu's dependence on gas in the long term.
in particular, there is a need for better coordination of national energy policies, as further integration of energy policies is in the interests of all member states, taking into account their interests and those of their citizens.
particular attention should be paid to the project to double the capacity of the nord stream pipeline under the baltic sea and its threat to the eu's energy security as a whole.
on the one hand, the report itself should be seen as written from a purely economic perspective, without taking into account the environmental impact of the increase in the use of natural gas.
on the other hand, the report emphasises the very important issue of energy independence and mentions the prospects for the creation of a natural gas market.
this is particularly important for energy markets still isolated from the rest of the eu, such as the baltic states.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environmentally sound use of energy is a very important one.
the european parliament welcomes the commission communication on an eu strategy for the use and storage of liquefied natural gas and considers that an internal energy market fully integrating the use and storage of liquefied natural gas will play an important role in achieving the ultimate goal of a resilient energy union.
the eu lng and gas storage strategy is one of the elements of the energy union, which aims to deliver on the eu's ambition to move rapidly towards a sustainable, secure and competitive energy system, and to move away from dependence on external gas suppliers.
parliament stressed that one of the objectives of the energy union is to make the eu a world leader in renewable energy.
parliament also considers that the most effective way of ensuring energy security is through better coordination of national energy policies, the creation of a genuine energy union with a common energy market and a common energy policy, and cooperation between member states in this area, in accordance with the principles of solidarity and trust.
it is important to ensure effective control of fisheries activities in order to guarantee sustainable exploitation of living marine resources and maintain a level playing field among eu fleets.
the fisheries sector is one of the most important sectors for those interested in the sustainable management of the seas and oceans.
i am convinced that the speediest possible harmonisation of these economic activities, while ensuring the environmental component of fishing, such as the observance and control of the fishing gear regime, the uniform regulation of nets and other fishing gear, and the provision of flexibility for specific areas and waters, would make a significant contribution to the creation of a more integrated europe.
notes also that a number of new crises and priorities have emerged in recent years, in particular the migrant and refugee crisis, external emergencies, internal security problems, the agricultural crisis, the question of european fund for strategic investments (efsi) funding, and the persistently high level of unemployment, especially among young people; i therefore agree that it is necessary to ensure a realistic, reliable and sustainable eu budget for the remaining years of the current programme in order to deliver on the political commitments and strategic objectives of the european union.
however, the council should take its responsibility to ensure a realistic, credible, coherent and sustainable eu budget for the remaining years of the current perspective.
the general objective of the regulation is to halt the risks posed by new pests and diseases in the plant health sector, which are the result of global trade and climate change.
plant health is of key importance for plant production, for mosses, for natural natural habitats and planted areas, for natural ecosystems, for ecosystem services and for biodiversity in the union.
species harmful to plants and plant products are a threat to plant health and the threat of their introduction into the european union is currently increased by the globalisation of trade and climate change.
‒ the european economic outlook for spring 2016 forecasts that the eu economy will grow more slowly than expected, with euro area gdp expected to grow by only 1.6% and reach 1.8% in 2017. the eu also faces challenges related to a deteriorating international environment and the failure to implement sustainable reforms.
however, the commission should make greater efforts to promote fiscal sustainability in line with the stability and growth pact, while fully applying its flexibility provisions in line with the commission communication of 13 january 2015.
in writing.
however, i believe that the commission should do more to promote fiscal sustainability in line with the stability and growth pact, and take new effective measures to combat social inequality, exclusion and poverty.
we need to put more emphasis on the importance of the countryside, quality and organic food, a clean environment, proper social infrastructure.
‒ the artemis joint undertaking was set up in december 2007 for a period of 10 years to develop and implement a research agenda for the development of key technologies for embedded computer systems in a wide range of applications, with a view to promoting the union's competitiveness and sustainability and to facilitating the emergence of new markets and the application of technologies of benefit to society.
‒ i voted on this report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. the artemis joint undertaking (the 'joint undertaking') was set up in december 2007 for a period of 10 years to develop and implement a research agenda for the development of key technologies for embedded computing systems in a wide range of applications, with a view to promoting the union's competitiveness and sustainability and to facilitating the emergence of new markets and the application of technologies of benefit to society.
‒ the members of the european joint undertaking for the implementation of iter and the development of fusion energy are euratom, represented by the commission, the member states of euratom and other third countries which have concluded cooperation agreements with euratom in the field of controlled fusion.
‒ i voted on this report on the discharge for the implementation of the 2014 budget for the iter and fusion energy joint undertaking.
the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy (hereinafter referred to as the 'joint undertaking') was established in march 2007 for a period of 35 years.
the european parliament granted a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2014.
in writing.
‒ i have approved the ep's report approving the implementation of the budget of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2014. this company was established in march 2007 for a period of 35 years.
the ep therefore endorses the closure of the accounts of the iter joint undertaking and the fusion energy joint undertaking for the financial year 2014.
in writing.
i therefore agree that the nuclear non-proliferation goals must provide the basis for a global effort to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons, to promote the safe and peaceful use of nuclear energy for civilian purposes and to achieve a world free of nuclear weapons.
the european parliament is deeply concerned about the deteriorating security environment around the european union and beyond its neighbourhood, as nuclear weapons could once again be used as active deterrents and acquired by state and non-state actors, and is deeply concerned about the lack of effective disarmament and non-proliferation measures.
a deep concern was expressed about the deterioration of the security environment around the european union and beyond its neighbourhood, which could lead to the re-emergence of nuclear weapons.
the security environment in the world, including in the eu, is becoming increasingly volatile, unstable and unpredictable.
they are given a variety of tasks, from helping children, the elderly or migrants, to providing free support for sport or environmental events, but the service celebrating its 20th anniversary does not guarantee the right legal status for volunteers.
it therefore calls on the member states that have yet to establish a legal environment for volunteers to use the recommendations set out in the european voluntary policy agenda and the european charter on the rights and responsibilities of volunteers.
the european parliament underlines the importance of the agricultural and agri-products sector for social and territorial cohesion, given its role in sustainable economic growth, the creation of quality jobs and the preservation of rural communities.
agro-tourism, production of renewable energy).
i can only emphasise further that we must aim for a more rural and quality food, clean environment oriented european cap.
i supported this report, recognising that a balance must be struck between meeting the needs of the fishing industry and consumers and safeguarding cod stocks and promoting sustainable fishing.
all in all, it is essential to ensure the sustainable exploitation of cod stocks.
it is necessary to ensure that living marine biological resources are used in such a way as to restore and maintain populations of harvested species above levels which can produce the maximum sustainable yield.
the implementation of the measures envisaged will ensure the conservation, sustainable exploitation and sustainable fisheries of cod stocks.
‒ the multiannual cod fisheries plan is an important document defining the management objectives for this important resource and ecosystem component.
i have endorsed the document as being in line with the long-term objectives of sustainable fisheries.
in view of these problems in the euro area, i therefore agree that sound fiscal policies and socially balanced and productivity-oriented structural reforms are the only way to achieve a sustainable economic recovery.
i welcome the commission's commitment to help promote sustainable and green investment finance and urge the commission, on the basis of the consultations that have taken place and in close cooperation with the european parliament, to take a more active role, through the capital markets union, in supporting the growing market for sustainable and responsible investment, in promoting sustainable investment.
‒ recent years have shown a dramatic shift in the environment of security throughout the european union and it has not been a shift for the better.
better use of passenger water transport capacity would not only reduce congestion and co2 emissions, but also improve air quality and, in general, provide better transport services.
there are many places in europe where travelling by ferry or cruise ship would be much cheaper, simpler and faster, while protecting europe's environment and the health of its citizens.
and while water transport is already one of the most sustainable modes of travel, there is still room for improving shipping's environmental performance and energy efficiency.
i therefore support the view that better use of passenger water transport capacity would not only reduce congestion and co2 emissions, but also improve air quality and, in general, provide better transport services.
passenger water transport, including sea ferries, inland waterways ferries, barges and cruise ships, plays a key role in achieving a more sustainable and efficient european transport sector, underpinned by policies addressing safety, environmental standards, cross-border cooperation and competitiveness, and quality of service, passenger rights and accessibility without barriers.
better use of passenger water transport capacity would not only reduce congestion and co2 emissions, but also improve air quality and, in general, provide better transport services.
there are many places in europe where travelling by ferry or cruise ship would be much safer, simpler and faster, thus increasing the social and economic well-being of the regions while protecting europe's environment and the health of its citizens.
the communication discusses important measures to ensure competitiveness, service safety, quality and environmental standards.
therefore, more efforts are needed to improve environmental sustainability in order to move towards less polluting and energy efficient ships.
sustainable, attractive and economically competitive solutions are needed.
increased efforts and progress in research and innovation are needed, with particular attention to the practical application of renewable, solar and wind energy in the passenger water transport sector.
‒ waterborne passenger transport can become a more sustainable alternative to road transport, which has reached its limits in many cities.
we must use all instruments of development policy to eradicate poverty and promote the sustainable development goals.
it is also a good opportunity to analyse how aid and development effectiveness could contribute to the achievement of the sustainable development goals (sdgs) and the implementation of the addis ababa development finance agenda.
the effective use of all development policy instruments is essential to eradicate poverty and achieve the sustainable development goals.
i agree with the idea that we need to look for innovative approaches to sustainable development around the world.
the trade partners are given much more rights and opportunities to resolve disputes in a more favourable legal environment.
‒ the i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the reduction of emissions of certain pollutants into the atmosphere in certain member states and amending directive 2003/35/ec.
it should be noted that the european union has made considerable progress in the past 20 years in implementing specific policies on anthropogenic emissions and air quality, but the issue of significant negative impacts and risks to the environment and human health remains unresolved.
i agree with the rapporteur that this directive should contribute to the achievement of air quality objectives set out in union legislation in a cost-effective manner, to mitigating the effects of climate change by reducing emissions of short-lived air pollutants and to improving air quality in general by enhancing synergies with union climate and energy policies and ensuring that there is no duplication of existing legislation.
in particular, this directive should be aligned with emerging union and international climate change actions.
i agree that in order to reduce emissions from major sources, national air pollution control programmes should include measures applicable to all relevant sectors, including agriculture, industry, road transport, off-road vehicles, inland waterways and national shipping, district heating and solvents.
‒ i voted in favour of a report on the reduction of emissions in certain member states.
the objective of this report is to further reduce emissions of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, particulate matter and other air pollutants in the eu by 2030. i support the updated rules setting stricter emission limits for the new period (until 2030).
i believe that additional pollution control will reduce the negative health effects of air pollution.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it expresses parliament's position on the directive of the european parliament and of the council on the reduction of emissions of certain pollutants into the atmosphere in the member states.
in europe, the total external cost of air pollution to society in relation to health is estimated at between eur 330 and 940 billion per year.
in addition, there is growing evidence that atmospheric nitrogen deposition changes the natural environment, such as eutrophication and acidification, leading to a decrease in the diversity of surface vegetation, a slowdown in plant growth and an imbalance in nutrition.
efforts are being made across the union to reduce air pollution, but most member states are not meeting agreed standards.
the directive of the european parliament and of the council aims to establish new national emission limits for the main types of atmospheric pollutants.
the aim of the amendments is to reduce the potential risks to human health, the environment and the climate.
only by working together can we effectively reduce air pollution and its negative effects on public health and the environment.
it is therefore necessary to coordinate actions in the areas of emission reduction and air quality, as well as climate change and biodiversity protection.
it should be noted that the determination of emission reduction commitments should take into account the impact of emissions in member states not only at national level but also at cross-border level.
in addition, maintaining the competitiveness of the european economy and protecting the interests of smes is essential in order to move towards a low-carbon economy.
‒ the draft resolution under consideration covers a very important area of environmental protection.
financial support is essential for eu countries to effectively combat environmental and air pollution.
this directive should contribute to the achievement of air quality objectives set out in union legislation in a cost-effective manner, to mitigating the effects of climate change by reducing emissions of short-lived air pollutants and to improving air quality in general.
‒ these past years have sadly marked a shift in europe’s security environment.
the security environment in europe has significantly deteriorated and become less stable, more complex, more dangerous and less predictable.
the european security environment has significantly deteriorated and has become less stable, more complex, more dangerous and less predictable, with threats that are both traditional and hybrid, posed by state and non-state actors, originating from the south and the east, and affecting member states differently.
the only long-term and sustainable solution is an active, well-informed civil society, able to stand up and resist lies and propaganda.
‒ i voted against the resolution on the renewal of the authorisation of the active substance benzatone, as the assessment of the representative use of the active substance benzatone was not sufficient to conclude that the plant protection product containing the active substance would not adversely affect human or animal health or groundwater or would not have an unacceptable impact on the environment.
the amount of harmful substances already present in our environment is such that the use of another harmful substance cannot be tolerated.
according to the uk environment agency, the active substance benthazone is the most commonly detected approved pesticide in uk groundwater, and can also be found on the surface of water, with a similar situation across europe.
careful and careful selection of plant protection products is necessary to avoid the risks to human health and the environment from pesticides and to avoid contamination of water bodies, groundwater and soil.
in my view, the authorisation of the active substance benzatone should not be renewed, given the adverse effects on the environment and human health of that substance.
such activities may have adverse effects on human or animal health, the environment and groundwater.
i agree with the rapporteur that the establishment of a definitive vat system will contribute to the fight against vat fraud and that the proposed extension and application of the reverse charge system to all business transactions throughout the eu could be beneficial for a sustainable vat system.
by doing so, we will not only preserve biodiversity for future generations, but also improve and support the eu's security system, improve the lives of local communities, accelerate sustainable development and strengthen the rule of law.
‒ the fight against illegal trade in animals is an important expression of both humanism and a responsible approach to environmental protection.
i agree that europe needs to be more attentive to small businesses and take more action to create a common european transport area and harmonise the application of legislation, improve consumer protection and promote fair competition, and better coordinate the actions of local authorities and small transport companies to improve urban mobility, which will lead to a future with less carbon dioxide in the environment.
transport companies face challenges in responding to the growing demand for mobility in the face of underdeveloped infrastructures and increasing environmental demands.
all vehicles are under pressure to deliver safe, sustainable and highly competitive solutions that are environmentally responsible for cop21 and reduce congestion, but this is harder and more costly for small businesses to cope with.
i agree that europe needs to be more attentive to small businesses and take more action to create a common european transport area and harmonise the application of legislation, improve consumer protection and promote fair competition, and better coordinate the actions of local authorities and small transport companies to improve urban mobility, which will lead to a future with less carbon dioxide in the environment.
the implementation of this project requires careful international oversight to ensure that it complies with international requirements and standards for nuclear safety and environmental protection, including the application of the un espo and aarhus conventions.
this issue must be of relevance not only to lithuania but also to the whole european region because of the potential risks to the environment, human health and public safety.
effective trade relations provide opportunities for the sustainable development of a country and are therefore a more effective instrument of development assistance than development cooperation.
draft amending budget no 6 includes the proposed mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund in relation to the floods in germany in may and june 2016, and the commission therefore proposes to amend the 2016 budget and to increase budget line no 13 06 01 'assistance to member states in the event of a major natural disaster, when living conditions, the natural environment or the economy are seriously affected' by eur 31 475 125 in both commitment and payment appropriations.
‒ i voted in favour of this report, which examines draft amending budget no 6/2016 including the proposed mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund in relation to the floods in germany in may and june 2016. the commission therefore proposes to amend the 2016 budget to increase the budgetary resources for 'assistance to member states in the event of a major natural disaster, when living conditions, the natural environment or the economy are seriously affected'.
the european parliament stresses that the effective application of the polluter pays principle to offshore oil and gas operations should cover not only the prevention and remediation of environmental damage, as is currently done to some extent under the safety at sea and environmental liability directives, but also the costs associated with meeting the requirements for compensation for traditional damage, as provided for under the precautionary principle and the principle of sustainable development.
also underlines the differences and shortcomings in the transposition and application of the environmental liability provisions of the environmental liability directive, as also pointed out by the commission in its second implementation report.
the introduction of criminal liability at eu level could become another deterrent, which does not include civil liability, and thus could ensure better environmental protection and compliance with safety measures.
the parties responsible must be obliged to pay, in a timely and appropriate manner, the compensation which they are legally entitled to for damage and losses suffered by natural or legal persons and for damage caused to the environment.
it therefore reiterates its call for the successful and timely holding of elections in full compliance with the congolese constitution and the african charter on democracy, elections and governance, and urges the congolese government to ensure as soon as possible an enabling environment for transparent, credible and inclusive elections.
‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on access to energy resources in developing countries.
also, half of the people without access to electricity live in africa, and this number is growing because the continent's population is growing faster than its access to energy resources.
i therefore support the objective of improving access to energy resources, which accelerate development.
it is also necessary to take account of the scale and impact of energy poverty in developing countries and the eu's active involvement in efforts to reduce this poverty.
‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution on access to energy resources in developing countries.
the european parliament stresses that energy and potential security problems are closely linked and considers that energy governance, although difficult to implement, is essential for the economic and human development of developing countries.
parliament supported the commission's 'energy for development' initiative, which aims to provide access to sustainable energy resources to an additional 500 million people in developing countries by 2030 through programme elements such as the creation of a technical assistance facility, the pooling of eu experts to expand technical knowledge in developing countries and the promotion of capacity building and technology transfer.
it also highlights the role of energy as a driver in many other areas such as health, education, clean water, agriculture, as well as telecommunications and internet connectivity.
parliament calls on the commission to report regularly on its website on the progress made towards the 'energy for development' objective of its initiative and to clarify the share of total energy financing in developing countries allocated to renewable energy, remote regions, staff training, local practical experience and skills, local and off-grid solutions.
the european parliament resolution on access to energy in developing countries highlights the many problems that still leave 1.2 billion people without access to electricity.
despite having the greatest renewable energy potential on the planet, africa is also the continent that is lagging behind in terms of electrification.
in this context, the european parliament calls on the eu and its member states to provide support and technical assistance for projects such as the african clean energy corridor initiative action plan, which aims to meet half of all electricity demand by 2030 from clean, locally produced, cost-effective renewable energy sources, thus reducing carbon emissions.
first, there is a need to ensure better access to energy resources.
only by joint efforts can energy scarcity be effectively tackled and human basic needs and human rights be met.
it should be noted that energy scarcity is a global problem, affecting 11% of the eu population.
access to energy resources should therefore be a key and strategic policy area for each member state and the eu as a whole.
it is essential to remove all obstacles to energy development as soon as possible.
ensuring access to energy should therefore become one of the main objectives of development cooperation and, in general, of any development.
and that's where the huge potential of renewable energy is.
i think the clean energy package is a good document.
the incentives for building renovation can indeed significantly reduce energy consumption and renovation should be one of the main pillars of these measures.
secondly, the european union must speak with one voice on energy security for each individual member state of the community.
it seems that the elementary truth that a single radioactive cloud can bury all the clean energy toolkits and the entire energy strategy of the european union should not be forgotten.
third, the cost of energy to households.
in some countries of the community, people are forced to give up nearly a third of their income to buy energy.
energy has become a monopoly.
it is from these that energy companies derive huge profits from unfair taxation.
i join in the congratulations to the commission on presenting an ambitious document, for the first time we have a fully integrated plan that has used digital technologies and innovation to create a modern, efficient and responsive energy market.
the historic agreement on climate change reached in paris means we must be leaders in this area and continue to take the lead.
renewable and clean energy is one of the most cost-effective ways to do so in the long term.
there are too many untapped opportunities in the renovation of buildings and the commission's proposals will speed up this process and ensure much more efficient energy savings and a transition to a low-carbon economy.
this will also reduce energy bills, which are of particular concern to the most vulnerable consumers.
it is important that the creation of the energy union contributes to the reduction of energy poverty, which will bring real benefits to our consumers and businesses in the long term.
i congratulate the commission on the completion of a comprehensive energy package aimed at implementing a competitive, sustainable, citizen-centred eu energy policy.
this is one of the most important legislative proposals of this term, which will have an impact not only on the energy sector but also on european industry as a whole and its competitiveness.
the commission's main priorities are well-named: energy efficiency, leadership in the development of renewable energy sources, promotion of the consumer as an active and key player in the energy market.
however, as i have said on many occasions, a properly connected grid and an efficient internal energy market are the cornerstones of the energy union, without which we will not be able to maximise the benefits of renewable energy and ensure affordable prices for consumers.
it was also agreed that deep-sea fishing vessels would have to cease operations and move at least 5 nautical miles from the fishing zone of the ecosystem when they reach a depth of more than 400 metres and have touched a vulnerable marine ecosystem.
‒ the i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on a sustainable eu policy for the cultural and creative industries.
for the verts/ale group climate change, globalisation, market instability, unfair business practices these are just some of the causes of price volatility that we will continue to face in the future.
i regret that the report did not take account of the budget committee's essential observation that, in order to ensure a level playing field in the single market and a sustainable use of agricultural resources throughout the european union, direct payments must be harmonised between member states.
in order to avoid crises, it is important to educate farmers on how to avoid crises, how to reduce their impact, how to choose the right measures and not waste resources, and how to ensure sustainable farming.
climate change and pests in agriculture have a negative impact on agricultural production, which has a direct impact on prices.
on 20 november 2015, the european parliament adopted a resolution on the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement, welcoming the conclusion of negotiations with ecuador, encouraging the swift entry into force and full implementation of the agreement, believing that it will help ecuador to continue to pursue a new direction, namely to promote a policy of economically and socially sustainable development in a country in a complex regional and international context.
however, i agree that the commission must ensure full implementation of the provisions on sustainable development and closely monitor the political and fundamental rights situation in the country.
this is particularly true for the application of mandatory measures to maintain stocks at levels that ensure sustainable fishing.
this agreement also contributes to the implementation of the reformed eu fisheries management framework established under the objectives and basic principles of the new common fisheries policy (cfp), in particular the implementation of the landing obligation and the enforcement of mandatory measures to maintain stocks above sustainable levels.
i therefore support the decision of spain to mobilise the fund for training measures focusing on professional qualifications, such as those required for the carriage of passengers, or in areas or sectors where there are or could be opportunities: food, culinary, occupational risk prevention and quality control and environmental standards, heating, ventilation and air conditioning projects and maintenance of industrial equipment.
however, the commission notes that this regulation no longer takes into account the current legal environment that discriminates against non-listed companies, since the possibility of receiving compensation is granted only to 40 companies listed in the annex to this regulation.
as the commission states in its proposal, this regulation no longer takes account of the current legal environment.
‒ i supported the commission's proposal to repeal regulation (eec) no 1192/69 on common accounting standards for railway undertakings, as the adoption of a large number of new documents regulating the railway sector means that the current legal environment is no longer taken into account by this regulation.
trains are an environmentally friendly means of transport and promoting rail transport would also help reduce emissions across europe.
the further development of high-speed passenger services should also make rail transport more competitive, increasing its market share and contributing to climate change objectives.
in turn, maritime transport is to be a competitive and sustainable alternative to congested road transport.
the shortcomings - from the restriction of workers' social rights such as the right to strike, to the de facto refusal to align the text with state aid rules, to the disregard for environmental objectives in setting port charges - do not allow me to support this proposal.
the candidate, for his part, stressed that the standard of performance of performance audits should be changes in the real environment, actual solutions to problems, rather than the number of proposals accepted and put into practice.
the research funded covers production processes, resource use and conservation, environmental improvement and occupational safety in the relevant sectors.
the research funded covers production processes, resource use and conservation, environmental improvement and occupational safety in the relevant sectors.
the eu remains the world's largest economic power, the largest provider of humanitarian and development assistance, and a leader in global multilateral diplomacy, such as climate change, international justice, non-proliferation and human rights.
i think it is rightly emphasised that one of europe's top priorities at the moment must be to ensure peace and stability on our continent, in our neighbouring countries and in africa, because without security there can be no sustainable development, which is the precondition for stability, social justice and democracy.
the ep also stresses that the eu remains the world's largest economic power, the largest provider of humanitarian and development aid and a leader in global multilateral diplomacy, such as climate change, international justice, non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and human rights.
the market is likely to experience further uncertainty and increased economic and climate risks in the future.
the annual statistics for 2015 show that the majority of citizens turn to the european parliament for help in dealing with issues related to the environment, justice, the internal market and fundamental rights.
the 2015 annual statistics show that most citizens turn to parliament for assistance with matters relating to the environment, justice, the internal market and fundamental rights.
the 2015 annual statistics show that the majority of citizens turn to parliament for help in dealing with issues related to the environment, justice, the internal market and fundamental rights.