i also believe that we have made progress in the field of sustainable development by coordinating european efforts towards the 2030 agenda, but also, of course, through the contribution of our union, in close cooperation with our french friends, at cop 21 in paris: a first universal and binding agreement on the fight against climate change.
we have also worked towards the establishment of a reliable, transparent and robust governance of the energy union and the promotion of a sustainable energy transition.
and i could go on, mr prime minister, with the list: the intergovernmental agreement you mentioned, the importance and scope of which are underestimated, the elegance with which the luxembourg government managed the work at the climate conference in paris; the european union's commitment to the united nations, the european parliament's commitment to the united nations, the european union's commitment to the united nations, the european union's commitment to the united nations, the european union's commitment to the united nations, the european union's commitment to the united nations, the european union's commitment to the united nations, the european union's commitment to the united nations, the european union's commitment to the united nations, the european union's commitment to the united nations, the european union's commitment to the united nations, the european union's commitment to the united nations, the european union's commitment to the united nations, the european union's commitment to the united nations, the european union's commitment to the united nations, the european union's commitment to the united nations, the european union's commitment to the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the the european union is a great example of the kind of achievements that we do not often mention but which are part of the recent history of the european union.
the presidency also contributed to the development of the climate change agenda; the same applies to the agricultural and social aspects.
authorities on all levels can legislate on, for instance, environmental and health standards as they wish, and this will not change.
all efforts must be made to ensure full respect for the impartiality of humanitarian actors who are often willing to risk their lives by devoting their time, energy, know-how and generosity to finding solutions to the humanitarian challenge.
millions flee conflicts or leave their homes behind to escape disasters or climate change, and people are displaced for longer periods than ever before.
the way in which we have been responding to growing needs is not sustainable any more.
madam president, i have just one minute and i have to be sharp on energy efficiency and the circular economy.
why is the energy efficiency pipeline empty?
i have proposed since september last year an energy efficiency hub for south-east europe to allow technical assistance from the structural funds to come into the scheme.
does that mean that we can invest in renewable energy without any support?
so please vote with the greens on our split vote on paragraph 9. we cannot make renewable investments without having a revenue stream for renewables in this market.
asia’s security environment today looks more unstable than a few years ago but china has also sought stronger cooperation with other world powers, including with the european union on many different global issues.
i have witnessed first-hand the positive impact of china’s responsible engagement in the negotiations on iran’s nuclear programme, and more – i think of beijing’s role during the paris conference on climate change compared with their attitude just a few years ago.
on climate action, on migration, on development aid, on all this the question is not whether we need to engage with china but rather, what is the best way to do so.
with co2 prices of eur 7 or 8 per tonne, and no prospect of that changing with the actual proposals on the table, coal power stations which, politically, europe decided to phase out when it adopted its climate package in 2008, will stay in the market.
the very clear message which we are giving – and this is also thanks to the socialist group – is that we want to keep priority access and dispatch for renewable energy.
because when you have over—capacity in a market, there will be situations where you have to curtail, where you have to decide whether it is a coal power plant running, or whether it is renewable energy running.
do we want a market where renewable investments are penalised?
they called in vw and asked them a very simple question: please can you explain the discrepancy between the test in the lab and your very high emissions on the road?
the us authorities had one very simple question: please show us that your nox emissions are fulfilling the law after the recall.
this allows them to adapt to the changing needs of users and maintain the sustainability of services.
yes, we are forming a community of destiny with the acp, and more particularly with our neighbours in sub-saharan africa, in areas as diverse as climate, energy and security, among others.
i would rather return to what i believe was a success in paris, namely the fact that we went from "climate problems" to "climate solutions".
i am very much afraid that we will lose this dynamic, which has been created and in which france and mrs royal have put a lot of energy.
as we are going to morocco, the first is the energy for africa initiative.
could you explain a little more clearly how mr borloo's initiative 'energy for africa' is linked to the juncker guarantee fund?
the second is energy efficiency.
africa, egypt, algeria, tunisia and morocco need to improve energy efficiency.
the third thing is renewable energy.
shouldn't we offer african countries the opportunity to export renewables to europe, and thus increase our renewables target by 1% to also give them access to our market by exporting renewable energy?
we had the impression of a quick ratification, there was unity against mr trump and there were a lot of positive vibes, in part because of the positive agenda that the french have started in paris: energy efficiency in buildings, energy efficiency in transport, renewable energy, interconnectivity, and getting financial markets to understand that it is not black energy but green energy which is the future.
the success story of europe is that 95% of our climate achievements are in eco-design, labelling, building legislation, energy efficiency legislation, renewables, co2 and cars.
so why, at international cops, do we speak only about carbon markets and why do we hide away our success stories on renewables?
why did nobody from the commission speak about the juncker external fund for africa at a time when we could help africa to improve and to move much more quickly into renewable energy?
your energy package of next week will be the occasion to show that europe is a leader and, in that regard, why are you now reducing the investment opportunities for renewables in europe with low ambition, low governance and the destruction of priority access and despatch?
why is mr timmermans opposing a quota on renewable energy?
today, because we have renewables and energy efficiency, prices for big electricity consumers are relatively low.
be aware also that the commission, through the juncker investment fund, is now organising money for precisely what you want to have, which is combating energy poverty in europe.
– madam president, allow me to thank mr juncker for having stuck to the 30% energy efficiency he promised us, mr šefčovič for promoting energy for citizens, mr arias cañete for banning new coal, mr timmermans for recognising that eco-design is a big measure for europe, mr katainen for all the work he does on improving financing around energy efficiency, and mr moedas for preparing the energy business in europe for disruptive change.
why do you call this package ‘clean energy’?
why do you not call it green energy?
50% renewable electricity in 2030, with full electrification of transport, bringing more heat and electricity: that is too low, sorry; get up your numbers.
what is a market where coal pollution costs eur 4 per tonne?
how do we get 100% renewable fast-charging stations between germany, france, italy, benelux?
let us make concrete projects to bring this energy union closer to citizens and closer also to the governments.
the european union will continue to use all its policy instruments to ensure all over the world a favourable environment for the exercise of the freedom of religion and belief.