at the same time, from riga, with a paid subscription, say, on television or in the electronic environment of the internet, i cannot enjoy it in munich, london or dublin.
but striking a more effective balance between defending consumers' interests and improving the business climate in the internal and external markets is what this report seeks to achieve in the future through the recommendations it contains, which are addressed primarily to the european commission.
it aims to provide a fair environment for business, whereby consumers receive goods and services at market-conform prices and quality, and entrepreneurs receive clear rules of the game.
‒ i supported the european parliament's resolution on moving towards a digital single market because i believe that digitalisation has a huge potential to boost the european union's economic growth by boosting gdp growth, creating a good investment environment and creating thousands of new jobs.
and finally, if you were to stop nord stream 2 as an energy priority, your presidency would be simply great!
the working environment in which these products are used has changed, as have new and often more extreme sports activities, which are impossible without these products.
as required by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, manufacturers will be required to design gas installations so as not to cause the accumulation of carbon monoxide or soot or other substances harmful to health.
the basis for this step was the recent scandal revealed by the us environmental protection agency, in which the german carmaker vw admitted that for years it had effectively left its cars with both diesel and petrol engines in the testing phase for co2 measurements (i.e.
‒ the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution, signed in 1979 and entered into force in 1983, became the first international agreement of its kind.
today's vote was geared towards adopting the 2012 amendments, which provide for stricter emission limits for dust emissions from certain large stationary sources.
otherwise, there will be no real positive effect on the environment.
‒ while the previous vote referred to heavy metals as environmental pollutants, this one was about persistent organic pollutants, which are often still used in agriculture (as pesticides, insecticides), electrical engineering (as insulators), motor vehicle manufacturing, the chemical industry, oil refining and many other places.
as with metals, the agreement is to reduce emissions to 1990 levels or equivalent levels from any year in the decade 1985-95. the adoption of the amendments is a crucial step towards more efficient ecological management and, of course, public health, especially in view of the high prevalence of respiratory diseases worldwide - and not only in europe.
while it would be too anthropocentric to consider humans as the masters of the earth, this is still true in a way, and therefore it is up to us to a large extent to decide what happens here and what will happen in the future, first of all with the environment, nature and ecology.
the current trends unfortunately mean that it will not be possible to achieve effectively the objectives set for the eu biodiversity strategy, the setting and achievement of realistic periodicity and intermediate objectives, the more rational provision and use of funding, the most active possible cooperation between countries and relations structures, and the more effective and rational implementation of the common fisheries policy by the year 2000.
in writing.
‒ at the european parliament plenary session in strasbourg, i supported the report on the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy.
i believe it is important to stick to the environmental strategy we have developed, because it is in the long-term interests of our citizens.
in addition, environmental protection and biodiversity are increasingly being integrated into other policy areas.
biodiversity is seriously threatened both globally and in europe.
it is increasingly affected by climate change, increased consumption, and the increasing use of transport and energy resources.
human activities are increasing pollution, increasing co2 levels and causing species to become extinct.
surveys show that more than 80% of europeans are concerned about the loss of biodiversity, which calls for a responsible environmental policy.
preserving biodiversity is important for our health, well-being and well-being, as well as for the health, well-being and well-being of our children and grandchildren.
often, in our day-to-day lives, we do not realize how much we depend on such precious ecosystem services as fresh air, clean water, and the raw materials we use to build our homes, for example.
i believe that in the future, sustainable financing mechanisms for the protection of biodiversity should be provided.
of course, investing in nature and biodiversity requires money, but if we do not act responsibly, the losses in the future will be much greater.
we must therefore do everything we can to tackle the root causes of biodiversity loss and to integrate biodiversity into sectoral policies, including agriculture, forestry, fisheries, energy and transport.
i believe that the report adopted today will help to achieve the objectives of the eu biodiversity strategy and will prevent biodiversity loss, thereby preserving the planet as clean as possible for future generations.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks of chemical pollution caused by certain dangerous substances.
the current proposal does not address the concerns often raised about the potential health and environmental harm of gmos.
the impact of products containing gmos on humans and the environment is not yet sufficiently understood and there is too much uncertainty about gm products.
the current proposal does not address the concerns often raised about the potential health and environmental harm of gmos.
the impact of products containing gmos on humans and the environment is not yet sufficiently understood and there is too much uncertainty about gm products.
the current proposal does not address the concerns often raised about the potential health and environmental harm of gmos.
the impact of products containing gmos on humans and the environment is not yet sufficiently understood and there is too much uncertainty about gm products.
‒ in the wake of the recent car emissions scandal, the european commission has come up with legislation to test new car models for compliance with eu environmental standards.
therefore, the strictest possible compliance with and non-compliance with the emission levels (mg/km) set is of fundamental importance, especially in the european union, given our overall ecology and environmental protection policy, not to mention emission quotas.
it is about employment, the internal market, energy, the economy, monetary issues, migration, everything.
i believe that this programme should not only provide products in schools, but also promote healthier eating habits, stimulate local food chains, organic farming, sustainable production and the fight against food waste.
it is important to note, however, that in the future the agreement should pay greater attention to the sustainability of fisheries.
the un plans to develop an international legally binding instrument by the end of 2017 to promote the conservation and sustainable use of marine biodiversity beyond the territorial jurisdiction of states.
this already means a modern concept of sustainability, the development of marine ecosystem management and so on.
i join the call on the commission to cooperate as actively as possible with all the other parties involved in the development of the new regulations and, in principle, to regularly bring to the attention of both its own and other partners the issues of the sustainable use of marine resources.
we must therefore continue our efforts to maximise the systematization of fisheries at international level, particularly in terms of sustainability and, i would say, also in terms of the protection of ecosystems.
the commission will continue to support the implementation of the european union's policy on the environment and sustainable development.
mr president, central asia has an important role and potential in regional and global security, transit and trade, energy and communications.
the same applies to development assistance provision, especially in education and the environment.
one of the main problems is that glyphosate is largely non-selective in its action, killing not only unwanted herbs but also all plants, including algae, bacteria, fungi, and this has a very negative impact on biodiversity and ecosystems in the areas where it is applied.
i agree, ladies and gentlemen, that the commission's draft implementing regulation still fails to ensure, to a reasonable extent, the protection of human and animal health and the protection of the environment itself.
this damages the environment and nature, reducing biodiversity on agricultural land and destroying food sources for birds and insects.
given that glyphosate not only kills unwanted weeds but also plants, pollutes the environment in which we live and poses a serious threat to human health, i voted against the renewal of the licence for glyphosate.
‒ the total budget for the eu agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for 2014 was eur 10.88 million, 8.8% less than in 2013. the financing shall be entirely from the union budget.
this was due to the energy market integrity and transparency regulation.
the european chemicals agency (echa) is implementing new union legislation on chemicals, thus taking care of the health of europeans, the environment, innovation and competitiveness in europe.
‒ the european environment agency provides information and assessments on the state of the environment, trends in environmental development, policies and their effectiveness, as well as possible trends and challenges for the future.
given the trends in environmental developments over the past decades, including the potential impact on the economy and other areas, and the recently adopted paris declaration, the role of the eea is undoubtedly very important and will continue to be so.
the eit helps businesses, education and research institutions to work together to create an environment conducive to innovation and entrepreneurship.
‒ the european maritime safety agency provides technical assistance to the union and its member states in the development and implementation of eu legislation in areas such as safety of navigation, pollution from ships and maritime safety.
even considering that the agency has a staff of approximately 15 and that none of them is directly involved in the supply of nuclear fuel to consumers, the agency's role in the union's nuclear energy is undeniably very important, although of course only those countries where nuclear power plants or nuclear fuel suppliers are active can directly benefit from it.
‒ the clean sky 2 joint undertaking, which replaced the clean sky joint undertaking for a further 10 years in 2014, is tasked with developing innovative technologies to help reduce co2 and other emissions from aircraft, as well as noise, for different types of aircraft.
although less than agriculture, industry, or cars, airplanes (and airplanes in particular) have a significant negative impact on the environment.
‒ the main objective of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking is to maximise its positive contribution towards the creation of a low-carbon economy in europe by 2050. reducing the cost of fuel cell production, improving electricity capacity and efficiency, reducing the use of critical or rare materials and other sub-tasks are on the list of topical actions.
‒ the iter and f4e joint undertaking, also known as the 'f4e joint undertaking', is designed to promote the progressive development of fusion energy, which could eventually lead to demonstration participation in the construction of fusion reactors.
nuclear power was once thought to be the crown jewel of energy evolution.
it is therefore hoped that f4e will resolve as soon as possible the financial and project implementation problems that have existed for years and will be able to make a positive contribution to the development of the european energy sector.
another very positive aspect of the eib's work in 2014 was the financing of 84 projects in the field of environmental protection and improvement, with a total value of eur 12.6 billion.
fortunately, as sometimes happens with drugs, there is a cure, and that cure is the course that we have accepted, that the commission has proposed and that we have supported - the so-called energy union.
the principles of the energy union make it clear that we must reduce our dependence on imports, we must harness our energy sources and we cannot allow any kind of monopoly on the european market.
the logical example is the problem of snow cover in recent years due to the global greenhouse effect, which directly affects both the nature and animals of europe and the area that may be considered alive at a given moment.
since the current amendments have at least an indirect positive impact on the stable continuation of the activities of the same energy and commodity market players at community level, it was necessary to support them.
already, eu manufacturers have to meet high eu requirements in various areas, such as environmental requirements that limit the capacity of industry in the eu, while china does not have such high environmental requirements.
the concept of sustainable development, broadly speaking, means that we both take into account the needs of the current generation and cannot compromise the needs of future generations, for example, by defining economic, social, environmental sustainability.
in 2015, for example, in brazil, the world's nations agreed on 17 sustainable development goals and 169 sub-goals.
of course, i won't talk about them now, but it is clear that all the sdgs defined in the 2030 agenda for sustainable development are important, and we need to put them on our road map and implement them.
and, importantly, why i am supporting this very document today is that it is a call to the commission and the european external action service to work actively with member states to develop their sustainable development pathways.
however, not all foreign currency loans are covered, and this is precisely where an effective regulatory system is necessary in order to create an environment where, for instance, potential borrowers are fully aware of lending specificities, while banks cannot make unsubstantiated demands or change the lending conditions midway through.
so we have to think about the investment climate if we want to reduce poverty.
but if we want to reduce energy costs, then the drug is competition.
it is to develop, to create a european energy union, whose main objective is to develop a single market for both gas and electricity, because when we develop this market and create the necessary interconnections, and improve or reduce regulation so that trade can also take place across national borders, this competition will be created, which will result in an improvement in the quality of supply, a reduction in import dependency and, most importantly, a reduction in the price of electricity and gas for all consumers.
the reform of the energy system currently being implemented at union level is generally geared towards making it more decentralised, energy efficient, flexible and largely based on non-exhaustible energy sources.
and one of the primary goals for us, therefore, would be to provide our citizens with stable, accessible, efficient, sustainable energy.
the changes to be implemented also mean the possibility for people to produce their own energy as needed, especially in sparsely populated areas, and the freedom to choose the appropriate service providers.
finally, in my view, this should actually lead to the abolition of energy monopolies, which in some member states are still far from being implemented.
the role of smes and the further digitisation and innovation of the economy are also important objectives, as is the fight against counterfeiting and the protection of consumer interests, which in the modern era is particularly relevant in the digital environment (e.g.
environmental issues such as desertification only make things worse.
therefore, in order to alleviate these concerns, belarus should allow for a series of necessary stress tests performed under the auspices of the international atomic energy agency, as well as a comprehensive environmental impact assessment, particularly on the matter of drinking-water sources shared with lithuania.
i believe, therefore, that a solution to the current issues around the ostrovets nuclear power plant will be found soon, since, in the field of nuclear energy, there can be no other way but multilateral cooperation between all parties involved, directly or indirectly, be that belarus, lithuania, the eu, the russian federation, whose specialists are building the plant, or any other international institution concerned.
i want to add that nuclear energy is also environmentally friendly, and with proper maintenance, nuclear plants can last for decades on end.
the amendments to the revised version 3 will allow for more active promotion of international regulatory cooperation, thus promoting a more transparent, efficient and competitive economic environment, while developing and ensuring a higher level of protection in the field of health and safety.
given the importance of the wheeled vehicle industry to the union's economy, the environment and the health and well-being of its citizens, as well as to several other aspects of our daily lives, it was logical and also necessary to vote in favour.
‒ promoting sustainable development is one of the main policy areas of the european union, which is feasible at virtually all levels of its functioning.
so, development policy coherence, which includes things like migration policy, trade and finance, private sector development, food security, climate change, security and a number of other things, is very important.
in order to achieve the implementation of such a model, particular attention is paid to policy aspects to be implemented such as governance and accountability, regulation of accountability, promotion of sustainable family farming, access to land and security of property rights, regulation of seed material, promotion of gender equality and also financing of investments in african agriculture.
the main threat to the naps is, and will probably continue to be, pollution itself.
‒ sustainable agricultural development is, in fact, a necessity for the successful existence of any state (except perhaps the vatican).
from a governance perspective, it is essential to create a regulatory environment more favourable to innovation and to ensure that union rules do not act as a barrier to innovation.
in parallel, maximum attention should be paid to issues such as biodiversity conservation, food waste reduction, soil degradation levelling, climate change and efforts to promote cross-sectoral synergies.
it is true that there has not been a major environmental and economic recovery in europe since the prestige oil tanker disaster off the coast of galicia in 2002, but given the fundamental importance of the issue, it certainly should have been achieved much earlier.
active transnational cooperation is essential to tackle such issues, as pollution often occurs in several countries and requires effective cooperation.
and the two primary areas in which the european union and its member states are providing support are the rule of law and also inclusive growth through sustainable energy policies and job creation.
the current proposal does not address the concerns often raised about the potential health and environmental harm of gmos.
the impact of products containing gmos on humans and the environment is not yet sufficiently understood and there is too much uncertainty about gm products.
the current proposal does not address the concerns often raised about the potential health and environmental harm of gmos.
the impact of products containing gmos on humans and the environment is not yet sufficiently understood and there is too much uncertainty about gm products.
‒ in accordance with directive 2001/18/ec, the release of genetically modified organisms into the environment is not permitted without a comprehensive analysis of the potential consequences.
since the creation of a market for sulphonylurea-resistant plants would promote the use of these diabetes medicines as herbicides worldwide, it is simply not acceptable to place on the market this type of gmo which would lead to the use of the medicines for other purposes not related to public health and would potentially have a very detrimental impact on the world's ecosystems, in particular drinking water and biodiversity.
although the commission's authorisation covers only the import, distribution and retail of gmo grapes for purely decorative purposes, there are serious concerns that the placing of gmo grapes on the market will not only endanger the environment and human health, but also have a detrimental impact on biodiversity and chemically contaminate drinking water.
it is recognised that, although gmos would not have enhanced survival properties if released into the environment by seeds, pollen or rooted plants, they would still retain resistance to certain herbicides which are highly toxic to plants and animals even at very low doses.
it is also not possible to exclude the spread of gm plants in the environment, for example in gardens, by grazing or composting.
in view of the potential risks to the environment and human health and the negative attitude of the latvian public towards gmos, i voted for the repeal of the commission decision authorising the placing on the market of these gmos.
to further strengthen the competitiveness of this sector in the face of increasingly intense international competition, a great deal of attention needs to be devoted to promoting innovation and investment in this area - which is what we have done in this document - and the same applies to asset support and promoting a better market environment both within and outside the european union.
‒ since the adoption of the renewable energy directive (2009/28/ec) in 2009, the member states of the union have largely experienced a period of rapid development of renewable energy sources, which is still ongoing and which should be clearly supported in the future.
it is understood that renewable energy must not only be environmentally friendly but also economically viable.
the promotion of sectoral transparency, scientific innovation and its integration into practice, the exchange of experience and, as a matter of principle, international cooperation should be the primary pillars of the renewable energy policy that is largely covered by the directive.
it is regrettable that the recent commission progress report on renewable energy did not include specific recommendations for individual member states on how to meet the targets set by 2020. it is not possible to promote an effective policy in this area without a detailed analysis of the situation in the countries concerned and the provision of recommendations.
the development and promotion of renewable fuels must become another key pillar of eu and member state policy in this area.
‒ greenhouse gas emissions in the european union have decreased by 23% between 1990 and 2014, leading to the broad conclusion that the targets of a substantial 20% reduction in co2 emissions, a 20% increase in the share of renewable energy in total energy consumption and a 20% increase in energy efficiency will be achieved by 2020. it is logical that it is not possible to guarantee the transparency of the field without providing the necessary information and preparing national reports and subsequently compiling them at transnational level.
however, i added that the level of bureaucracy in this area is too high, which makes it somewhat difficult to achieve the objectives of the energy efficiency directive and the relevant strategies.
i would also like to note that it is largely thanks to the eu's energy efficiency policy that it has been possible to renovate thousands of houses in my country latvia , thus reducing the costs for the population and the consumption of [often non-renewable] fuel resources.
‒ the purpose of this proposal is to protect human health and the environment, and ensure the proper functioning of the internal market for engines in non-road mobile machinery.
one such specific case that will be updated over the next six months is in the energy sector.
we know that europe shares a very high energy dependence on russia, but to solve this we need to work together, we cannot do it alone.
there are two specific pieces of legislation that are being pushed forward - one is the gas safety regulation, the other is the decision on intergovernmental agreements with third-country energy suppliers, and it is precisely during your presidency that we have the opportunity to strengthen these new pieces of legislation, giving our citizens greater security and greater independence from imported energy sources.
we have a lot to do in the energy sector.
this can have an impact on our security, as new types of crime are also possible with the development of new technological services in the digital environment.
the text of the agreement stipulates that companies providing basic services in the eu, such as transport, energy, banking and health, as well as companies providing digital services, will have to improve their resilience to cyberattacks.
‒ the amended text stipulates that this regulation lays down a framework that applies to energy-related products and provides them with a label regarding energy efficiency, absolute consumption of energy and other environmental and performance characteristics.
it allows customers to choose more energy-efficient products in order to reduce their energy consumption.
what we've heard is that in europe, for ideological reasons, i'm not saying wrongly, but for ideological reasons, we set the ultimate goal -- the climate goal -- to reduce co2 emissions.
and as a result, they encouraged, they deliberately encouraged the development of the diesel industry and the interest of consumers in buying diesel generators, but ignored or revised the fact that it had been known for a long time that diesel, while having low co2 emissions, has high levels of nitrogen dioxide, various oxides, so-called, which are directly harmful to human health.
the adoption of the latest regulation on car emission standards, euro 5 and 6 in 2007, did not solve the already known problem of road emissions, which are much higher than laboratory emissions.
from the tests, we need to have tests that are related to road emissions, not just the lab.
diesel cars themselves produce a large amount of harmful waste, exceeding the legal limits several times.
‒ reliable statistical data are needed to ensure the functioning of the single energy market.
the commission will have access to data on the prices of natural gas and electricity paid by households and businesses after the adoption of this law and will be able to make an in-depth assessment of the functioning of the single energy market in order to come up with appropriate legislation to address shortcomings, if necessary.
i fully support the adoption of this regulation, because the creation of the common european energy market needs reliable information.
the way to a common eu energy market consists of a lot of steps.
‒ the existing regulatory framework for european markets needs to be adjusted in order to allow a growing share of renewable energy sources and to close existing cross-border regulatory gaps.
a new market design for electricity must be based on market principles, which would stimulate investment, ensure that small and medium enterprises have access to the energy market and unlock a sustainable and efficient electricity supply through a stable, integrated and smart energy system.
‒ this strategy provides a framework for integrating efficient heating and cooling into eu energy policies.
i support the opinion that we have to ensure that a share of energy efficiency funding has to be dedicated to improvements for energy-poor households, to work with stakeholders, to raise consumer awareness of household energy efficiency aspects and to stimulate the take-up of the recommendations of company energy audits.
‒ i support presented eu strategy for the alpine region to preserve and valorise natural resources, to develop ecological connectivity, to improve risk management as regards climate change, and carry out a comprehensive vulnerability assessment of the sectors and systems likely to be affected and developing a regional strategy on adapting to climate change.
‒ we are awaiting from the commission proposals to facilitate loans to micro-companies and smes to increase their available credit, to improve the regulatory framework for social businesses, and to create a differentiated approach to improving the environment for smes, taking into account the eu regions’ specific structural differences.
‒ climate change, global warming and rising average air temperatures are undeniable facts that the world has been facing for some time.
most of these are the direct consequences of human activity, so the un meets every year at climate change conferences to discuss options and targets for reducing these changes.
the eu countries have always set ambitious targets, for example by introducing an emissions trading system.
however, it is clear that the eu alone cannot fully mitigate global warming.
that is why, at the un climate conference in paris last november, countries signed an agreement with binding climate change mitigation targets.
the report states that the following must be placed at the centre of a new agreement: the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals and respect for internationally agreed aid effectiveness principles, the fight against, and ultimate eradication of, poverty and inequalities, human rights, democratic principles and the rule of law.
i support the resolution’s call on the commission, the council, the member states and the international community, as well as developing countries’ governments, to mobilise, forthwith, long-term financial investments for food and nutrition security and sustainable agriculture.
‒ at the european parliament plenary in strasbourg, i voted for a resolution on the implementation of the paris agreement and the 2016 un climate change conference in marrakech, morocco.
mitigating climate change is not just a european challenge, but a global one.
it is therefore important to recognise that global responsibility for climate change and the rise in average air temperatures is shared by all.
no matter how much europe reduces, for example, the same co2 emissions, it may not reduce the global co2 emissions, because in the same moment, in another region of the world, the emissions will have doubled.
that is why i believe that a global agreement to mitigate climate change is a very welcome initiative.
however, in this resolution i am voting against the paragraph which states that even more funding is needed to combat climate change by introducing a financial transaction tax in the eu.
i believe that the mandate of the european commission has sufficient resources to study and understand the environmental and human health impacts of genetically modified products.
i believe that the mandate of the european commission has sufficient resources to study and understand the environmental and human health impacts of genetically modified products.
the effects of these products on human health and the environment must be clearly identified.
i believe that the european commission has more resources to study and understand the environmental and human health impacts of genetically modified products.
there must be a clear examination of the harmlessness, non-hazardousness to human health and environmental impact of these products and, until the potential consequences are identified, these implementing acts are not acceptable.
i believe that the european commission has more resources to study and understand the environmental and human health impacts of genetically modified products.
there must be a clear examination of the harmlessness, non-hazardousness to human health and environmental impact of these products and, until the potential consequences are identified, these implementing acts are not acceptable.
‒ i agree that commission should withdraw its draft implementing decision and to submit a new legislative proposal on the basis of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, amending regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 to take into account frequently expressed national concerns which do not relate only to issues associated with the safety of gmos for health or the environment.
i believe that the european commission has more resources to study and understand the environmental and human health impacts of genetically modified products.
there must be a clear examination of the harmlessness, non-hazardousness to human health and environmental impact of these products and, until the potential consequences are identified, these implementing acts are not acceptable.
‒ i agree that the commission should withdraw its draft implementing decision and submit a new legislative proposal on the basis of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, amending regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 to take into account frequently expressed national concerns which do not relate only to issues associated with the safety of gmos for health or the environment.
from my point of view the real aim has to be a low energy price for consumers.
‒ it is important to ensure effective control of fisheries activities in order to guarantee sustainable exploitation of living marine resources.
‒ we think that the eu needs to enhance the connectivity and accessibility of the infrastructure for transport to, from and within the central and eastern parts of the eu, taking into account the needs of the economy and the principles of sustainable development.
sound fiscal policies and socially balanced structural reforms oriented towards increasing productivity are the only way of bringing about sustainable economic improvements in these member states.
‒ i support the efforts of the waterborne passenger transport sector to switch to cleaner, energy-efficient ships with lower emissions, developed as part of a european framework aimed at making waterborne transport greener.
in the european union, we have set ourselves the goal of creating a so-called energy union - like running a marathon.
the energy union has several objectives at once: to reduce import dependency, to reduce co2 emissions and to increase competition between energy suppliers to ensure that consumers have the lowest possible prices.
so it is absolutely incomprehensible that three things are happening or not happening on the commission's part that are actually delaying this energy union.
all three of these things are working against our goals of achieving the energy union.
‒ wildlife trafficking has major negative impacts on biodiversity, existing ecosystems, the natural heritage of the countries of origin, natural resources and the conservation of species.
‒ transport businesses face considerable challenges in order to respond to the increasing demand for mobility within the constraints of limited infrastructure and increasing environmental requirements.
one of the objectives of sustainable development is to ensure that all people have access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy services.
african countries are currently facing huge energy supply constraints that are severely hampering their development.
together with weak education and health systems, the underdeveloped energy supply creates a vicious circle of poverty from which it is very difficult for africans to escape.
colleagues, even a relatively small investment in energy supply can bring enormous economic benefits and significantly improve the living and working conditions of many people on the african continent.
sustainable development in africa will help mitigate the migration crisis and create new opportunities for our businesses in the future.
the european union's energy development initiative aims to provide an additional 500 million people with access to sustainable energy by 2030. half a billion people!
and will provide eur 3.5 billion in energy development assistance from 2014 to 2020. we have a goal and money.
‒ one of the goals of sustainable development is to ensure that all people have access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy services.
the eu's 'energy for development' initiative aims to provide access to sustainable energy for an additional 500 million people by 2030 and to provide eur 3.5 billion in energy development assistance over the period 2014-2020. we have goals and money - now it's important to make the 30 programmes we have planned work accurately and efficiently.
what exactly has driven our energy policy so far over the last 15 or even 20 years?
it's been climate policy.
the goal of reducing harmful emissions of co2 or climate change is what we do as human beings.
and because of this policy, we've subsidized renewable energy, and these technologies have evolved to the point that we now have wind turbines, solar turbines, and so on, that we have a viable alternative to fossil fuels.
‒ the regulation must have the following aims: to prevent significant adverse impacts on vulnerable marine ecosystems and ensure the long-term conservation of deep sea fish stocks; to minimise and where possible prevent by-catches; to apply the precautionary and ecosystem approaches to fisheries management; and to ensure that the union measures aimed at the sustainable management of deep-sea fish stocks are consistent with resolutions adopted by the general assembly of the united nations.
trains are an environmentally friendly mode of transport and increasing the use of rail will help reduce waste across europe.
europe is currently facing unprecedented external and internal challenges, including interstate conflict, terrorism, hybrid threats, cyber and energy insecurity, organised crime and climate change.
under the union custom code, all communications between custom authorities and businesses will have to be electronic, with the goal of creating a completely paperless custom environment across the eu.